Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AM                      -7
Report No. P-4950-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED INDUSTRIAL SECTOR POLICY LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$500.0 MILLION
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
MAY 22, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - PESO (MEX$)
On April 10, 1989, the exchange rate in the controlled market was
US$1 - Mex$2,355.00; and the free market exchange rate stood at US$1 -
Mex$2,370.00.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha) = 10.000 square meters (m2) - 2.47 acres (a)
1 kilometer (km) - 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (kmZ) = 0.39 square milea - 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg) 8 2,205 pounds (lbs)
1.000 kilograms = 1 metric ton (t) - 0.98 long ton
1 liter (1) = 2.26 gallons (gal)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ACF        Average Cost of Funds
AGSAL     Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loans
CEPROFI    Certificado de Promoci6n Fiscal (Certificate of Fiscal
Promotion)
CONACYT    Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia (National Council for
Science and Technology)
DCR        Domestic Content Requirement
DFI        Direct Foreign Investment
DRC        Domestic Resource Cost
EDP I/II   First and Second Export Development Project
EFF        Extended Fund Facility
EQ         Export Quotas
FSL        Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GATT       General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GIRA       General Interest Rate Agreement
IFAD       International Fund for Agricultural Development
INFOTEC    Servicio de Informacion Tecnologica (Technology Information
Service)
ISPL       Industrial Sector Policy Loan
NAFIN      Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
NICA       Non-interest Current Account
NCFI       National Commission for Foreign Investment
NOE        Non Oil Expurts
NTB        Nor. Tariff Barriers
NRFI       National Register of Foreign Investment
ORP        Official Reference Price
Pacto      Economic Solidarity Pact
PECE       Stabilization and Growth Pact
PE         Public Enterprise
PEMEX      Petroleos Mexicanos
PERL       Public Enterprise Reform Loan
PITEX      Temporary Import Schemes
RNIE       National Register of Foreign Investment
R&D        Rese-arch and Development
SAP        Special Action Program
QR         Quantitative Restriction
SCT        Ministry of Communication and Transport
SECOFI     Ministry of Trade and Industry
SHCP       Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
STPS       Ministry of Labor and Social Security
SMI        Small and Medium Industry
TFP        Total Factor Productivity
TPL IIII  First and Second Trade Policy Loans



FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR POLICY LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Loan and Program Summary .......................    i - ii
I. THE ECONOMY                                    ..1
A. Background                            .              . 1
B. Macroeconomic Developments in 1988. .                             3
C. Macroeconomic Policies in 1989 .                  .               5
D. Towards Renewed Growth .                     .                    6
E. External Debt and Creditworthiness. .                             7
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT .7
A. Overview ............................................. 7
B. Background .........................                              8
C. Import Substitution, Public Expenditures, Oil and
Foreign Borrowing-Led Growth: 1978-1982 .10
D. Macroeconomic Adjustment and Awareness
of the Need for Structural Reform: 1983-85 .10
E. The Beginning of Structural Reform: 1986-88 .11
F. Outlook for the Industrial Sector .11
III.  THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM .12
A. Program Scope and Actions Taken   .                .12
B. Sector Programs                          .. . 14
Automotive Industry    .                  .16
Pharmaceutical Industry                     .         .        18
Petrochemical Industry   .                 .19
Micro-computer Induatry   .                 .20
C. Competitive Goods Markets                        .        .        20
Trade Policy Reform   .                   .21
Price Controls   .                    .24
Entry Barriers   .                    .25
Cost of Doing Business (Bureaucratic Procedures) ....26
D. Competitive Factors Markets   .                 .27
Fiscal and Credit Incentives  .                .28
Direct Foreign Investment   .                .29
Industrial Technology   .                  .31
Labor Mobility   .                      .33
E. The Trucking Sector    .                    .34
Road Transport Regulations   .                .34
F. External Finance                 . ..35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
IV.    THE PROPOSED LOAN               ............... ........36
A. Loan History.                    .    . ................. .36
B. Loan Objectives                .*..........
C. The Borrower, The Guarantor and Project
Implementation.                       ....... . 38
D. Disbursement, Procurement, Administration and
Auditing.                            ....    38
E. Medium Term Financing and Debt Reduction Support ......39
F. Loan Trenching                        ....39
G. Monitoring and Reporting                  ..            ...40
H. Poverty Impact                       ...40
I. Benefits and Risks                ...........41
V.      BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO AND GOVERNMENT
DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES.                               ... 42
A. Bank Operations.... 42
B. Government Development Objectives           ... .43
C. Bank Strategy ............................           ....... 44
D. Agriculture. . . .......... 45
E. Trade                           .....46
F. Industry                       ........46
G. Infrastructure                     ......46
H. Housing                      .....46
I. Social Sectors and Environment...                               47
J. IFC Operations                      ....... . t47
VI.    COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF ........................     .     . .      48
VII.  RECOMMENDATION .............                                            48
ANNEES
Annex I    -  Mexico:  Economic Indicators
Annex I$   -  Status of Bank Group Operations in Mexico
Annex III  -  Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Annex IV   -  Letter of Industrial Sector Policy
Annex V      -  Policy Matrix
Annex VI   -  Industrial Sector Programs
Annex VII  -  Trade Policy Reform
Annex VIII -  Entry Barriers
Annex IX   -  Road Transportation
Annex X      -  Statistical Annex
Figure 1 - Manufacturing Industry
Figure 2 - Manufacturing Industry GDP
Figure 3 - Manufactured Exports
Figure 4 - Exports and Imports 1987
Figure 5 - Total Factor Productivity



- i -
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR POLICY LOAN
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:       Nacional Financiera S.N.C. (NAFIN)
Guarantor:      United Mexican States
Beneficiary:    United Mexican States
Amount:         US$500 million
Terms:          Repayable in 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Objectives:     The proposed loan, which is part of a program of Bank
support to the Mexican Government's objectives of
stabilizing its economy and resuming growth, will assist in
modernizing the country's industrial sector. It aims at
removing distortions in goods, factor and service markets,
and at providing an appropriate institutional and
regulatory environment to enable industrial enterprises to
meet the challenge of a more competitive world economy and,
thereby, stimulate investment and growth.
Description:    The proposed loan includes deregulation of the industrial
sector programs in the automotive, pharmaceutical,
petrochemicals, and microcomputer subsectors, the easing of
bureaucratic procedures and barriers to entry, increasing
of factor mobility (e.g. direct foreign investment,
technology transfer and research and development, and
labor), and the improvement of trucking services. The
proposed loan will help implement initial, but in many
cases fundamental changes. It also includes studies to
identify further policy or legislative changes needed to
improve the regulatory framework. Deregulation measures
supported by the proposed loan follow up on other measures
already taken by the authorities.
Benefits
and Risks:      The program supported by this loan will help accelerate
adjustment in the structure of production toward increasing
competitiveness, and a more attractive environment for
investment and technological development and transfer. It
will help foster market flexibility, promote non-distorted
markets, improve factor mobility, reduce the costs of doing
business and improve trucking services. The main risk is
possible political resistance to carrying out the reforms
at the speed envisaged. There is also a risk that the
macroeconomic objectives of stabilization and growth may be
undermined if expected foreign financing does not



- ii -
materialize. The Government's program and the design of
the proposed loan together with the other two adjustment
operations being processed simultaneously (the Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan and the Public Enterprise Reform
Loan) contain elements that should significantly reduce
these risks.
Estimated
Disbursements:  The proposed loan will be disbursed against eligible
imports in two tranches of US$250.0 million and US$247.0
million, respectively. A US$3.0 million component will
finance technical assistance and studies to carry tisrough
the initial effects of the reform. The first tranche will
be available for disbursement at the time of loan
effectiveness upon fulfillment of specified conditions,
including substantial progress in obtaining adequate
financing for Mexico's requirements for 1989 ar-A 1990. The
second tranche would be released after November 30, 1989,
upon fulfillment of specified conditions in all key policy
areas supported under the loan, including continued
consistency of the macroeconomic policy framework with the
industrial deregulation program; progress in obtaining
adequate financing for Mexico's aggregate 1989-1990
requirements; and satisfactory progress in implementing
action programs concerning technology, direct foreign
investment, trade, industrial sector programs and
administrative simplification. Since it may be difficult
for the Government to put in place an effective debt
reduction scheme without direct Bank assistance, up to
US$125 million equivalent would be used under the second
tranche for a debt reduction plan meeting the requirements
for Bank support. Disbursement of the entire loan is
expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.
Retroactive
Financi-Eg:     US$100 million will be made available for retroactive
financing of expenditures incurred from February 15, 1989.
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Appraisal
Report:        This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal Report.
Schedule of
Disbursements:
Amounts in
US$ Millions
Bank FY90                      500.0



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED INDUSTRIAL SECTOR POLICY LOAN TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN), with the guarantee of the
United Mexican States, for the equivalent of US$500 million in support of a
program of industrial deregulation and policy reform. The loan will have a
term of 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A.       Background
2.       Between 1950 and 1974, Mexico enjoyed a remarkable period of high
growth, low inflation and moderate external debt accumulation. Real growth
averaged 6.4Z, and inflation was in single digits throughout the period.
This era of fiscal conservatism came to an abrupt end in the early
seventies. Rapidly expanding government involvement in the economy pushed
up the rate of economic growth. However, increasing government expenditure
was not matched by rising public sector revenues. At the same time a
decline in private savings incentives (real interest rates turned sharply
downwards) prevented a matching increase in private savings. As a result,
inflation tax and external debt became increasingly important sources of
finance. The period of single digit inflation ended in 1973, the real
exchange rate started to appreciatel and the accumulation of external debt
accelerated above the GNP growth rate beyond 1973.
3.       In 1976, Mexico experienced a serious, but comparatively brief
financial and economic crisis, triggering a major e&valuation of the
Mexican peso and financial austerity measures.  However, after major oil
discoveries were announced the following year, the stabilization program
was quickly terminated. In fact, the subsequent period was characterized
by both rapidly expanding government revenues and vastly increased
borrowing of the public sector. The Government's share in total value
added increased by almost one third, and in total investment from 33.5Z in
1970-75 to substantially over 401 in later yeirs. Not surprisingly, the
real exchange rate once again started to appreciate, eroding the gains of
the 1976 devaluation. This expansion was largely fueled from abroad:
Mexico's external debt increased from US$16 billion to US$86 billion
between 1975 and 1982.
4.       The situation changed dramatically in 1982 when rising world
interest rates and falling oil prices put an end to Mexico's increasingly
expansionary policies. The refusal of external creditors to roll over
Mexico's short term debt left no option but fiscal retrenchment. Mexico,
11 The real exchange rate is defined as the price of foreign goods
relative to domestic goods. Appreciation means a decline in this
relative price.



-2-
which had run non-interest current account deficits in each of the
preceding thirty years, suddenly needed to run surpluses on that account in
every following year. The ratio of external debt to GDP increased
substantially und.er the influence of rising interest rates and falling
growth rates. The gap between the real interest rates on external debt and
real GDP growtn went from -6.3Z in 1980-1981 to a full +10.52 in 1983.
Such a high difference meant that, even without a non-interest current
account deficit, the debt burden would increase rapidly, simply through the
compounding effect of interest on debt inherited from the past. In
addition, there were substantial capital losses on external debt due to the
necessary real exchange rate depreciaticn. Given the major decline in oil
revenues and rise in real interest obligations, the real depreciation of
the exchange rate was unavoidable, but it led to an increase in external
debt to GDP ratio of about 25 percentage points during the period
1982-1987.
S.       The counterpart to the non-interest current account improvement
was a sustained fiscal adjustment effort that is probably unmatched in any
country. A primary fiscal deficit of 7.6Z of GDP before the 1982 crisis
was turned into a surplus of 4.92 in 1987 and an estimated 5.82 in 1988
(Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, FSL, Annex I, Table 1). And this was
achieved while revenues from oil exports declined by more than 72 of GDP
between 1983 and 1988, and GDP growth declined dramatically. Non-interest
Government expenditure was reduced from the equivalent of 35.42 of GDP in
1982 to about 22.62 in 1988. The public enterprise divestiture program was
successful in closing or selling roughly 700 smaller entities, out of a
total of about 1200 in 1982. In addition, in the same period, Mexico has
undertaken far reaching structural reforms at an accelerating pace.
6.       An IMP supported stabilization program was launched in 1983,
during which the fiscal deficit was halved, international reserves
recovered, and inflation began to decline. However, in 1984 and 1985 there
was some fiscal expansion and monetary relaxation. Moreover, the
earthquake in late 1985 and a major terms of trade deterioration in 1986
due to falling oil prices worsened Mexico's prospects. In response, the
authorities adopted a deeper and growth-oriented stabilization program in
July 1986. In return for renewed monetary and fiscal austerity, this
program also called for a concerted financing effort on the part of
Mexico's creditors.
7.       The 1986 package included new elements of policy designed to
eliminate structural rigidities in the economy. The most significant
change was a major reorientation towards fuller integration with the world
economy. Exports of manufactures, spurred by a 422 real exchange rate
depreciation over the July 1985-December '.987 period, have overtaken oil
exports and more than compensated for the US$7 billion oil revenue loss
experienced over the same time span. Since mid-1985, Mexico has undertaken
a fast and far-reaching liberalization of the trade regime, aimed at
expanding the tradeables sector, opening it to international competition
and encouraging efficiency in both exporting, and import-substitution
activities. In 1986 Mexico acceded to the GATT. The trade liberalization
process was supported by Bank operations (Trade Policy I and II, TPL I and
II, and Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan, AGSAL). While it will take
some time before the full impact develops, the initial results are
promising, incentives have been redirected and restructuring toward more



efficient activity begun. For example, in agriculture, the policy reforms
initiated since 1985, and especially since October 1987, have substantially
reduced direct and indirect price discrimination against producers.
Exchange rate policy has become more favorable to all tradeable sectors.
Import barriers have been sharply reduced for major agricultural inputs
such as machines, pesticides, and other high technology inputs. Export
restrictions on fruits and vegetables, whiich represent 252 of crop output,
have been substantially reduced, and most producer prices have been moved
into a band of between 9O0 and 125? of international prices.
8.       The key reforms in the trade regime included reductions in the
coverage of NTBs and tariffs. The progress has been impressive. Import
licensing coverage is now less than one-quarter of what it was in June
1985. official reference prices have been completely abolished, the maximum
tariff is now one-fifth and the average tariff about one-half of what they
were in June 1985. Progress has gone beyond the Government's original
schedule, GATT commitments, and the targets in the TPL I and II and the
AGSAL.
9.       The ensuing fiscal retrenchment was unavoidable given Mexico's
sudden difficulty in accessing the international capital markets and the
adverse terms of trade shocks it experienced. As a byproduct, the severe
fiscal cutbacks have greatly increased the efficiency of many of the
remaining government operations. There is, for example, little doubt that
few, if any, of the many dubious large projects of the late seventies
remain in the public sector investment program. But, cutting back public
investments from almost lOS of GDP in 1982 to around 4.4Z in 1988, clearly
has had its costs. Government investment has a role to play in areas that
heavily complement private investment and in the social sectors. Also
private investment has not made up for the decrease.
10.      With lower investment on the one hand, and restrictive demand
management on the other, real growth again stopped. There has been no real
growth between 1982 and 1987, and hence a severe decline in per capita
income (FSL, Annex I, Table 1). Also, inflation, rather than slowing down,
in fact accelerated towards the end of the period, partially in response to
a sharp nominal devaluation. This devaluation, however, had become
necessary because of the abrupt oil price decline in 1986. The subsequent
de-facto targeting of the real exchange rate, together with an increase in
the frequency of wage and cost adjustments, introduced an element of
inherent instability into the system. This latter became fully apparent
towards the end of 1987. The stock market plunge and less than perfect
management of private debt buy backs evolving from the 1987 debt
rescheduling triggered a run on the peso in October 1987. This resulted in
reserve losses and eventually a 37? devaluation, fueling inflation and
expectations of further exchange rate depreciations. The Government
responded with the 'Economic Solidarity Pact" (Pacto), a concerted effort
to bring down inflation that was running well into triple digits by end-
1987.
B.       Macroeconomic Development in 1988
11.      The Pacto was negotiated in December 1987 between Government,
labor, farming, and business representatives. The program consisted of
further tightening of fiscal and monetary policy, and renewed structural



reform efforts. Trade liberalization was accelerated, credit subsidies
substantially reduced, and the program of public enterprise divestiture
reinforced. These measures were supplemented by a freeze of minimum wages,
public sector prices a_d tariffs, and, what was a corner stone of the
'Pacto', freezing the nominal exchange rate against the U.S. dollar. This
partial freeze was originally intended for a couple of months only, but it
was extended at three month intervals through the end of 1988.
12.      On almost every target that is under direct or indirect control of
the government, performance under the "Pacto' has been exemplary and often
went beyond what was initially planned. Trade reform was accelerated,
partly because of the potential efficiency gains, partly because of its
restraining effect on price increases. The fiscal deficit was brought
closely in line with the low inflation targets embedded in the UPacto".
This effort was all the more noteworthy, given the negative budgetary
impact of further drops in oil ;,rices and increasingly high real interest
rates on foreign debt towards the end of the year.
13.      Moreover, this has been achieved in spite of high domestic real
interest rates. These have been at around 302 in real terms during most of
1988, and have crept up to a compounded real rate in excess of 40% towards
the end of the year. And, it must be stressed that real interest rates on
Government debt swung from a negative 32 in 1987. With the domestic debt
in 1988 equivalent to around 20X of GDP, such a turn around caused a
massive increase in real interest payments to service the domestic debt.
14.      The fiscal measures, backed up by the exchange rate freeze and an
array of formal and informal price controls, have had a dramatic success in
reducing the rate of inflation. Inflation figures for October 1988
indicate a monthly rate of 0.8z for the CPI and 1.42 for the WPI. In
November 1988, the WPI actually declined and the CPI inflation rate slowed
down further to 1.3%. In December 1988, CPI inflation was 2.1Z,
substantial food price increases notwithstanding but the WPI went up by
only 0.8Z. This is a tenfold reduction compared with the beginning of the
year; if the October-December 1988, rates could be sustained, Mexico's
inflation rate would be at an annualized rate of approximately 152. This
would clearly be a dramatic change with respect to the 1592 inflation rate
in 1987.
15.      The policy of a fixed Peso-Dollar rate came under increasing
pressure in 1988 as the year went by. The real exchange rate against the
US Dollar appreciated by 9.22 since January, and by 5.5% since March, the
first month with low inflation. The appreciation of the dollar between
March and September 1988 added to the pressure: on a trade weighted basis
the real exchange rate appreciated by almost 7.4Z between March and August.
This should be set against a sharp real depreciation of 42Z on trade-
weighted basis between July 1985 and December 1987. July 1985 was the
month preceding a nominal devaluation of 17% and the beginning of a much
more aggressive exchange rate policy. However, falling oil prices and
rising international interest rates in the second half of 1988 added to
pressure on the real exchange rate.
16.      Doubts about the sustainability of the exchange rate may have been
behind the second striking feature of 1988, an extraordinary surge in
imports which increased by 48% in 1988. It seems that a substantial part



of the import boom was related to speculation against the exchange rate,
and, possibly, a gamble on future trade reform rollback.
17.      At the same time, non-oil exports increased by 162 in dollar terms
in 1988, (the 198W over 1986 increase was 23.72). But because of falling
revenues from oil; total exports grew by only 52 in nominal terms in 1988
over 1987. In addition there was a strong increase in exports from the
'Maquiladoras," the importlexport industries alonig the US border. While
separate export and import data for the smaquila' sector are not yet
available for 1988, preliminary data indicates that value added increased
by 401 over 1987, adding a US$2.3 billion to the trade surplus in 1987 (as
opposed to US$1.S: billion last year). The increase in exports was due to
improved competitiveness since mid-85; as mentioned before, although the
exchange rate dipreciated in real terms by 422 between July 1985 and
December 1987, some of the gains have been eroded since the beginning of
1988. Also, since 1985, Mexico's competitors have improved their
competitiveness by almost 102.
18.      The net result was a deterioration in the current account of
US$6.8 billion dollars from 1987 to 1988 (a swing to a deficit of US$2.9
billion in 1988 from a surplus of about US$3.9 billion in 1987).
C.       Macroeconomic Policies in 1989
19.      In December 1988 the Mexican Government and the various sectors of
society agreed on a renewal of the 'Pacto' as the initial rhase of economic
policies for 1989. This renewed Pacto now called Stabilization and Growth
Pact (PECE) aims to consolidaLe price stability and contains specific
guidelines through the end of July 1989. Within this framework, public
sector prices and tariffs were adjusted, minimum wages were increased by
82, and the peso is being depreciated daily according to a pre-announced
schedule of one peso a day. Under the PECE it is expected that inflation
will decline from 522 during 1988 to 202 during 1989. The fiscal measures
approved by Congress in the 1989 budget will contribute to a reduction of
the operational deficit. The fiscal stance, in conjunction with
appropriate monetary and exchange rate policies, should help bring about
the gradual recovery of investment and output, as well as lower inflation
and the strengthening of international reserves.
20.      The first quarter of 1989 indicates that the PECE is performing
very much like the Pacto, with the same successes and weaknesses.
Inflation, after accelerating to 2.1 and 2.42 respectively in December and
January, came down to 1.42 in February and 1.1Z in March. Current rates,
if continued, are compatible with the Government's stated 202 year-end to
year-end target (one percent a month until December implies 172 December to
December inflation), an impressive reduction from the 1592 and 522
inflation rates in 1987 and 1988, respectively. Also, the nominal daily
devaluation of the Peso has led to a small real depreciation of the
exchange rate against Mexico's main trading partner, the USA. Current
exchange rate policy and inflation targets are broadly consistent with a
stable real exchange rate (a small real depreciation from December 1988 to
December 1989). Exchange rate policy will be monitored in the context of
the proposed IMP's EFF.



- 6-
D.       Towards Renewed Growth
21.      The predominant long term problem in Mexico is the continued low
growth rate of the economy. This is not only an issue of great social
concern, but also presents a major inefficiency and a threat to the success
of the short term stabilization program as vell. An efficiency issue,
because it suggests that the rationalized incentive structure that is
beginning to emerge as a result of the ongoing reform program is not
sufficiently exploited; and threat to the stabilization effort because any
fiscal deficit is much harder to finance at low than at high growth rates.
Thus low growth rates increase the probability that recourse to reliance on
the inflation tax is imminent. For all these reasons restoration of growth
to the levels prevailing before the expansionary mid seventies is
imperative.
22.      It is clear, however, that because of the short-term problems,
fiscal efforts cannot be the main engine of growth. In the short run.
balance of payments considerations leave no option but export led growth.
Then however, supply bottlenecks will develop in time, with the consequent
need for additional investment. At present, investment is equivalent to
20.32 of GDP. public investment being at its lowest historical level. With
fiscal retrenchment necessary in the face of low inflation targets and the
likely negative impact of external shocks on public finance, private
investment will have to lead the way. This is also more in line with the
structural reforms currently underway in Mexico; these reforms seek to
reduce rather than increase the role of the public sector. This then sets
the stage for the three proposed adjustment operations: Industrial Sector
Policy Loan (ISPL), FSL, and Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL); how to
restore private sector based growth within the constraints se,. by external
creditworthiness. A starting point would, therefore, have to be the design
of a policy-financing package that will provide the framework for the
increase in private investment necessary for resumed growth. The proposed
operations are clearly an important component of such a package.
23.      The need for a solution to Mexico's external debt problems is not
only essential for the recovery of growth, but would also contrtbute
significantly to the chances of success of the stabilization effort.
Clearly, cutting back Mexico's access to foreign capital markets would in
fact reduce Mexico's creditworthiress because it would slow down GDP
growth. Sustained access to exteLnal capital markets is necessary to
provide room for the additional investment needed for renewed growth. But
fears of the consequences of a lack of access to capital markets, with its
implications for fiscal and exchange rate policy, are clearly among the
factors holding this investment back. In turn, the resulting sluggish
growth performance and public finance problems are among the factors
causing the lack of access to external capital markets to begin with, thus
closing the vicious circle.
24.      It is exactly in sucb a vicious circle situation that the Bank has
a major role to play. On the one hand, it can provide external funds as,
for instance, through the three proposed adjustment operations and help
secure other sources of financing, thus relaxing the external constraint
that is stifling growth. But, at the same time the Bank would, through the
policy package it supports, give a signal that the increased external funds
will indeed, trigger the increased investment necessary for growth. Thus,
Bank lending would play a major catalytic role in the process of breaking



- 7 -
out of the macroeconomic bind in which Mexico finds itself. This is the
main rationale for the three proposed adjustment operations: to act as a
catalyzing agent for a process of renewed growth, where Mexico and all its
external creditors play an active participatory role.
E.       External Debt and Creditworthiness
25.      Mexico's gross external public and private debt increased by
nearly US$11 billion during 1983-88, and net debt by about US$9 billion.
The debt service ratio increased from 47.12 of exports of goods and non-
factor services in 1982 to 60.5Z in 1988, mainly due to large repayments of
around US$3.5 billion of private sector debt and a decline in oil prices.
At the end of 1988, the Bank's share of Mexico's long-term debt was 8.22.
and its share of Mexico's long-term debt service was 7.62. Mexico's share
in the Bank's total exposure was 8.7Z in 1988. This latter ratio is
expected to rise somewhat by the end of this decade because of Bank
expanded assistance program, but will remain below 102 of the Bank's total
portfolio. Provided that sound domestic economic policies continue to be
pursued, and that the external environment remains favorable for the
execution of these policies, Mexico is considered creditworthy for planned
Bank lending.
PART II - SECTORAL CONTEXT
A.       Overview
26.      Mexico's industrial sector had been sheltered from the rigors of
foreign competition until the mid-1980s by three decades of policies
relying heavily on import substitution and extensive government
intervention in the sector. Intervention took place both directly, through
the expansion of public enterprise scope and capacity, and indirectly
through the incentive system and a complex industrial regulatory framework
which applies both to private and public firms. The nation's industrial
sector development depended heavily on public enterprises (PEs) and a
restrictive regulatory framework has closely linked private sector
production to PE activities in both the goods and factor markets. Private
sector development was heavily regulated.
27.      The cost of these policies may be observed in: ti) the industrial
sector's general lack of competitiveness, (ii) the great dependence of the
private sector on public sector activity, and (iii) low intersectoral
resource mobility. Weak macroeconomic management in the past, volatility
in the terms of trade and in international interest rates, and the high
level of the country's foreign debt have increased risk and uncertainty for
the private sector; this has undoubtedly affected the structure and volume
of resources allocated to industrial activity. Therefore, continuity,
consistency and credibility will be essential for the continued success of
the Government's ongoing structural reform program, which was initiated in
mid-1985 to open up the economy to foreign competition and remove
distortions that have reduced competitiveness in the industrial sector.
The trade reform is quite advanced and macroeconomic policies have been
greatly improved; the implementation of complementary domestic policies and
dismantling of industrial regulations is, however, lagging behind. The
sectoral approach to industrial policy ("picking winners"), entry barriers,



- 8 -
protective trade policy, price controls, selective credit and tax
incentives, foreign investment rules, disincentives in research and
development (R & D) and foreign technology transfer, labor market
restrictions, inefficiency in trucking, are main areas where regulations
affect goods and factor markets, hinder private sector adjustment to
changes in the incentive system and contribute to increasing industrial and
geographic concentration.
B.       Background
28.      Mexico has a record of sustained industrial growth which has
mainly resulted from increases in capacity expansion rather than
productivity increases. Gross manufactured output in constant prices rose
at average rates of 6.32, 8.3Z and 7? p.a. for each of the decades 1950-60,
1960-70 and 1970-80, respectively, and during each decade real industrial
growth exceeded overall GDP growth. Since the 1950s through 1982 rapid
expansion of domestic demand was the major source of industrial expansion.
Growth of exports accounted for only 2-5X of industrial growth during the
thirty year period. The share of manufacturing industry in GDP has been
increasing since the mid-1970s, but more so in 1986-1987 when it reached
about 25? (Table 1). The manufacturing sector accounted for about 11? of
total wage employment in 1986. Three subsectors represent about 75Z of
manufacturing GDP: (i) food, beverage and tobacco; (ii) textile, clothing
and leather goods- and (iii) chemical, and metal products and machinery
industries (Annex X, Figure 1). Direct PE involvement in manufacturing
industry is significant (around 25?), and PEs are involved in the
production of important industrial inputs (basic petrochemicals, steel,
fertilizers) and nontradables (electricity, telecommunications, banking).
Four of the ten largest firms are PEs, and the state-owned petroleum
company Petroleos Mexicanos (PEMEX) is the largest enterprise in the
country. The share of non-petroleum PEs increased between 1982 and 1983,
largely due to the nationalization of the banking system. In the area of
transport, storage and communications, PEs account for about 25? of all
activities.
29.      Import substitution and a public expenditure-led growth strategy
was the hallmark of the industrial sector in the 1970s until around 1976
when the consolidated public sector deficit reached unsustainable levels.
The Government undertook a combined program of stabilization and limited
trade liberalization with renewed efforts to reform taxes, reduce
protection and stimulate non-oil exports. However, major new oil
discoveries in 1977 and 1978 were seen as the means to finance a quick
return to high growth without politically costly structural reforms. The
decision to join the GATT was postponed, and modest progress in trade
liberalization was reversed after 1980. Beginning in 1978 and continuing
through 1982, the economy experienced a period of unprecedented growth,



-9-
Table 1: Mexico - Key Indicators of the Manufacturing Sector 1975-1987 1/
(in percent)
1975-1982     1983-1985         1986-1987
Manf. GDPIGDP               21.6            22.6'           24.9
Manf. Price Deflator/                Ir'
GDP Deflator               100.1          107.2            118.1
Manf. Sector Imports/
Total Imports               89.5           92.3             93.2
Non-oil Exports/            40.5           30.4             59.3
Total Exports
Manf Exports/
Total Exports               24.0           22.2             46.4
Manf. Exports/
Non-oil Exports             59.1           72.9             78.3
Annual Rate of
Growth of                   9.1            4.7             23.7
Non-oil Exports (US$)
Annual Rate of
Growth of
Manf. Exports (US$)         10.7             4.2            39.2
Hanf. Exports/
Manf GDP                     8.1           13.0             26.1
Manf. Export Price/
Manf GDP Deflator          114.0          112.0            139.0
1/ Source: Staff estimates from LA2CO Mexico Data Base.
fueled primarily by the rapid expansion of oil exports and substantial
increases in public investment. Since 1982, the industrial sector has
adjusted to the economic crisis primarily through reduction in industrial
output and by increasing the share of exports. At the same time, the
dependence of manufacturing production on imports has been traditionally
high, as shown by the sector's relatively unchanged share of imports (Table
1).
30.      Industrial sector strategies were implemented in three distinct
phases since the late-1970s. The period from 1978-1982 was mainly
characterized by a closed economy, enjoying a boom from oil revenues and
abundant international credit. By 1982, growth based on import
substitution and excessive reliance on public sector investment was
virtually exhausted, and in the period from 1983-1985, Mexico undertook an
adjustment program based on drastic contraction of domestic demand through



- 10 -
fiscal and monetary policies. During this period the Government became
increasingly aware of the need for fundamental structural reforms, which
were finally introduced in mid-1985. The period 1986-1988 was
characterized by the start of a new approach to industrial sector
development.
C.       Import Substitution, Public Expenditures, Oil and Foreign
Borrowing-Led Growth: 1978-1982
31.      Large scale public and complementary private investments were
encouraged by a combination of trade and fiscal incentives while export
capability was severely repressed. The excessive focus on import
substitution not only prevented industry from gaining the productivity and
efficiency required to compete abroad, but also penalized the primary
sectors (especially agriculture and mining) that had previously been
export-oriented, by skewing incentives and drawing private sector resources
away from them. Some sectors became heavily dependent on fiscal
incentives, subsidized input prices, preferential credit and the "buy
Mexican' procurement policies of the public sector. The overall effects of
the industrial sector policy based on an import substitution strategy,
direct industrial controls and public sector ownership are reflected in the
poor productivity and international competitiveness of Mexican industry.
Total factor productivity (TFP)2 declined throughout the period, and was
especially low in subsectors enjoying protection through QRs. Low
productivity growth was also reflected in insufficient international
competitiveness of the industrial sector, as measured by the Domestic
Resource Cost (DRC) ratio.3 While half of all industrial sector activities
had DRC ratios below 0.9 (competitive), 27Z fell in the range between 0.9
and 1.1 (uncertain competitiveness), leaving at least a quarter of
industrial activities in the uncompetitive range. Meanwhile, the
agricultural and primary sectors experienced negative effective rates of
protection.
D.       Macroeconomic Adjustment and Awareness of the Need for Structural
Reform 1983-1985
32.      The macroeconomic environment and its impact on the public sector
greatly affected industrial performance during this period. Private
investment in Mexico, at that time, directly depended, aw ng other things,
on public investment in infrastructure and, due to regulations and trade
barriers, on expansions in PEs' capacity to produce inputs as well.
Accordingly, the latter was a precondition for complementary downstream
private investments. Moreover, increased public sector investment fostered
new private sector investments undertaken in part to satisfy the additional
public sector demand. Aggregate public sector expenditures in relation to
GDP fell sharply in 1983. Links in the prevailing market structure
necessarily implied that the cutbacks in infrastructure and PE investments
induced a contraction in private investment. The result was a magnified
cost of adjustment, which was reflected in a sharp reduction in industrial
output and employment in sectors where linkages were high (e.g., capital
21 TFP provides a measure of output growth, net of the growth attributable
to increased factor inputs.
3/ DRC compares output at international prices with inputs at shadow
prices.



- 11 -
goods). As a result of the stabilization effort, imports fell and the
external balance showed large surpluses.  Unfortunately, the implementation
of trade liberalization measures was very slow during 1983-1984. The
creation in 1983 of a 'free trade status" for exporters through the
Temporary Import and Duty Drawback schemes diminished the anti-export bias.
However, the import regime continued to be restrictive as QRs rather than
tariffs provided the effective constraints on most imports, and domestic
sales remained highly protected. Only limited trade liberalization was
achieved in the first half of 1985, against strong opposition in many parts
of the private and public sectors. However, the ensuing fiscal crisis
proved that the public sector-led import substitution growth model was
unsustainable, and the need for structural reform became apparent. As a
result a major reduction of QRs took place in mid-1985.
E.       The Beginning of Structural Reform: 1986-1988
33.      Trade policy was the first area in which major structural reforms
were undertaken. The net effect was intended to permit Mexico to exploit
its comparative advantage in manufacturing, mining and agriculture, to
generate rapid growth of non-oil exports and to increase efficiency in the
import-substituting sector. The liberalization process was accelerated in
late 1987 as part of the measures taken under the Pacto. The commitment to
liberalize trade was reinforced by Mexico's formal accession to GATT in
August 1986. As the trade liberalization began to take effect, the need to
change domestic industrial policies vhich were preventing an adequate
response to external competition, became pressing.
34.      Trends in the development of the manufacturing sector suggest that
there has been a supply response in the manufacturing sector, as can be
seen from the positive relationship between the behavior of relative prices
for the manufacturing sector and the share of the manufacturing sector in
GDP (Table 1). All of the indicators show consistency regarding the
direction of structural change towards increasing export orientation,
especially since 1985. There has also been an increase in manufactured
exports relative to both non-oil exports (NOE) and to manufacturing GDP.
These results may be partly related to trade liberalization and partly to
counter-cyclical behavior of these shares during recessions. The increase
in the price of manufacturing exports relative to the implicit price
deflator for manufacturing GDP experienced after 1985 reflects mainly the
depreciation of the Mexican peso.
35.      The opening of the economy since 1985 allowed the increase in
productivity mainly in the sectors where the Mexican industry has a
comparative advantage. The gains were more pronounced, since 1986, in the
dynamic industries exhibiting solid export performance and trade balance
surplus, namely food, textiles and metal products. Moreover, except in the
iron and steel industry, in most other industries there was an increase in
factor productivity since 1986 (Annex X, Figure 5). In addition, the
paper, chemical, metal products and machinery industries ran trade deficits
in 1987; while the food, textiles, non-metallic minerals and basic metals
industries ran a trade surplus in 1987 (Annex X, Figures 3 and 4).
F.       Outlook for the Industrial Sector
36.      In response to the crisis, labor markets have shown unexpected



- 12 _
flexibility mainly through a sharp reduction in real wages. The virtual
elimination of fiscal and credit incentives and changes in the corporate
tax system reducing the bias in favor of debt financing and against equity
financing are encouraging companies to take a hard look at the economic
returns of alternative production choices, and to seek sounlder sources of
financing that permit the assumption of greater risk. The Government is
also seeking greater mobilization of venture capital financing for the
industrial sector and it has embarked on a far-reaching program for
restructuring or divesting parastatal industries.
37.      Mexican authorities have recognized that the resumption of growth
will require, among other things, increased private investment and
participation in industrial activity. Reforming the regulatory framework
in order to foster a more competitive domestic market structure will be one
of the means to attain this objective.
38.      The policy agenda is now focussed ont (i) consolidating the
stabilization achieved under the Pacto; (ii) completing and consolidating
the trade reform including the dismantling of non-tariff barriers, and
(iii) proceeding with the liberalization of domestic policies which
effectively inhibit competition. Leaving such policies in place may
prevent trade liberalization gains from being fully realized because they
affect price signals and factor mobility and therefore inhibit the supply
response. If the required structural changes can be carried out
consistently and at a suitable pace, including the freeing-up of many
domestic controls, prospects for the sector are good.
39.      Improved macroeconomic management, the advanced stage of the trade
reform, the continuing privatization of PEs and the initial steps taken
with regard to deregulation, are important elements in setting the stage
for robust and sustainable industrial growth. Part III of this report
outlines a series of measures to support the Government's industrial sector
program, aimed at reducing inefficiencies in the goods and factor markets
and in the provision of trucking services.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
A.       Program Scope and Actions Taken
40.      Following its initiatives in trade liberalization, the Mexican
Government has started modernizing its industrial policies, and has been
devising strategies for more comprehensive deregulation of the cector. Its
long term objective is to achieve an internationally competitive industrial
structure that is responsive to technological change. The process of
deregulation is complex, however, as shown by the experiences of countries
like Japan, U.S.A., Great Britain, and, recently, New Zealand. Regulatory
instruments are diverse, trade policy being just one of them, and they cut
across sectors. This diversity raises questions of optimal sequencing and
timing of policy changes. Furthermore, attempts at deregulation can be
expected to encounter strong opposition by interest groups who benefit from
the present policy environment. The Government's direct involvement in
manufacturing and some services also complicates the deregulation process.
41.      The proposed ISPL will support a program geared toward



- 13 -
deregulating the Mexican industrial sector. It will support policy changes
to be initiated in 1989 that will encourage more efficient allocation of
resources in the industrial sector and stimulate sustainable industrial
growth, based on market forces rather than on the use of discretionary
policy instruments. The program will emphasize: (i) deregulation of the
industrial sector programs; (ii) further improvement in the trade regime;
(iii) establishing more open direct foreign investment and technology
transfer regimes and improving the environment for R & D; (iv) relaxing
barriers to entry and reducing the cost of doing business; and (v)
implementing regulatory changes to improve the provision of trucking
services. An attempt will also be made to review and implement initial
measures aimed at increasing labor mobility.   The details of the proposed
program are discussed below and summarized in the policy matrix (Annex V).
42.      The Government has already taken a number of important steps
designed to initiate the process of reform of the industrial sector.   A
new procurement law has been introduced, and the provisions of the foreign
investment law have been simplified and made more flexible to stimulate
direct foreign investment (DFI). To that end, the Government just
published a Reglamento to the DFI Law (interpretative regulations to
implement the Law). The new Reglamento gives transparency and automaticity
to the system and eliminates the requirement of case by case approval in
the vast majority of cases. For specific subsectors, increased patent
protection is being extended for new technology in the chemical-
pharmaceutical sectors, domestic content requirements (DCRs) have been
lowered for automotive exports, QRs on microcomputer components have been
eliminated, private petrochemical firms have been given greater freedom to
import inputs and produce a greater variety of final products, while a 302
subsidy on basic chemical inputs has been eliminated and QRs on secondary
chemicals have been replaced by tariffs. To promote a more competitive
environment, simplified procedures have been adopted for registration and
administration of microenterprises, and the certificate of fiscal promotion
(CEPROFI) incentive for investment has been eliminated for practically all
industrial activities. In addition, interest rate subsidies to industry
have been virtually eliminated by adopting market-oriented lending rates.
In the area of services, international trucking movements are now permitted
across the U.S. border and limitations on the shipment of goods by
container have been removed.
43.      While the measures to be supported by the proposed ISPL are
diverse, they address only a subset, albeit a crucial one, of the existing
regulations. For example, while recognizing how important regulatory
issues are to labor mobility, in the context of the proposed ISPL, major
changes in this area 'ill be left for the future, because they require
thorough analysis and difficult and likely time-consuming legislative
actions. The same approach applies to major entry barriers in industries
where regulations governing property rights are not well defined. There
exists great uncertainty regarding the optimal timing and sequencing for
implementing an effective process of deregulation causing the least
possible disruption. Accordingly, to maximize the impact, the proposed
loan will support studies in the areas of DFI, technology transfer and
R & D, labor mobility, the pharmaceuticals, automotive, and computer
industries, the system of export quotas, unfair trade practices
regulations, and regulations on trucking to review key issues as a basis
for agreeing on plans of action for further changes.



- 14 -
B.       Sector Programs
44.      Much of Mexico's recent industrial strategy has been carried out
through programas de rama (Sector Programs). These Sector Programs were
developed by the Ministry of Industry and Trade (SECOFI) in consultation
with industry representatives during the early 1980s. The objective of the
Sector Programs was to alleviate balance of payments difficulties and to
target industries designated as high priority. The most important Sector
Programs are for the automotive, pharmaceutical, petrochemical and
computer industries. The first three of these Sector Programs were
established by decree, the one for computers is an informal program. Annex
VI provides details on the Sector Programs.
45.      The Sector Programs combine protective instruments, like import
restrictions, tax incentives and domestic entry restrictions, with
regulatory measures like DCRs, mandatory export quotas and the requirement
to maintain a foreign exchange balance position between exports and
imports, and, in some cases, price controls. The Sector Programs also
regulate DFI in their respective subsectors, and have extended the set of
industries reserved for Mexican nationals in the foreign investment law,
although some exemptions to foreign firms were granted.
46.      As of March 1989, 22.32 of domestic production of tradeables were
protected by QRs on competing imports, of which 3? corresponds to the
industrial sector,4 including about 2.7S representing the Sector Programs.
However, these figures underestimate the incidence of non-tariff barriers
since they do not account for domestic restrictions embedded in Sector
Programs, in particular DCRs.
47.      Industrial subsectors subject to Sector Programs represent 4.32 of
GDP, as compared with their 25 share of manufacturing GDP. Two of these
subsectors, basic chemicals and pharmaceuticals, worsened their growth
performance in 1987 with respect to the period 1981-1986. Basic
petrochemicals continued to grow at a fast pace, the automobile sector
accelerated its rate of growth impressively, and auto-parts production
improved its growth performance significantly in 1987. Industries subject
to Sector Programs exported about 36Z of manufacturing exports during 1987
(Table 2).
48.      Overall the Sector Programs are quite specific in the goals they
seek, primarily in terms of increased exports and import substitution, and
seem to have generally met some of their targets such as investment and
export growth, job creation, and sectoral trade balances. However, because
of trade liberalization measures taken after the introduction of the Sector
Programs and significant changes in the macroeconomic environment, these
improvements can only be attributed in part to the Sector Programs.
Moreover, the entry restrictions and the remaining disproportionate
protection provided to these sectors have contributed to large efficiency
41 Including agricultural inputs (e.g., pesticides, irrigation equipment,
agricultural machines), but excluding those on oil and derivatives, and
agroindustrial products.



- 15 -
Table 2: Mexico Sectoral Proqram Indicators
GDP and Exports
GOP Rstes       Sector COP   Sector Export.
of Growth            /GDP       /Manuf .Exports*
(U)
1981-se    1987b     198sb          1987b
GDP                       0.0      1.4    100.0              -
Manufacturing GDP         0.0       .0      24.7             -
Selected Sectors:
Textile and Clothing
(24.25,26,27)           -2.0    -1.9        2.0             3.2
Basic Petrochemical
(34)                    13.0    16.8        0.8             1.1
Basic Chem. (86)         4.0      2.6       0.8             8.2
Pharmac. (88)            2.0    -1.4        0.4             0.8
Automobile (6B)         -8.0    18.1        0.8             0.8
Auto-parts (67)         -2.0      2.1       0.5            16.7
Trot-sport
Equipment (58)          -4.0    -8.7        0.2             0.8
Total                                     4.8            25.7
Source: WS calculations based on INEGI (Sector classification number)
a. Includes oil derivates and petrochemical exports.
b. Based on preliminary data.
Nominal and Effective Protection Rates and Quantitative Restrictlons
(as of March 1989)
Effectivo
Tariff Ratesa    Protection Rates        QRsb
(X)
Average Total (Sectors 1-69)c/          12.6             15.6               22.8
Selected Sectors:
Texti le
Soft Fiber Prodcuts (24)              14.2             18                  0.0
Hard Fiber Product. (25)              11.8             14                  0.0
Other Textiles (26)                   17.7             27                  0.1
Clothing (27)                           20.0             88                  0.0
Basic Petrochemical (84)                 6.8             11                  0.0
Basic Chemical (36)                     10.2             13                  0.0
Pharmaceuticals (88)                    16.7             82                  0.1
Automobile (65)                         19.0             s0                  2.4
Auto-parts (57)                         18.2              8                  0.1
Transport Equlpment (58)                12.8             16                  0.0
TOTAL:                                                                     2.7
Source: Bank estimates; SECOFI date.
a/ Weighted by 1986 production (matching of weights for the Tariff
Harmonized System 's approximate).
b/ 1988 production coverae .
c/ Includes all tradeables setors (agrieulture, agroindustry, mining and
manufacturing).



- 16 -
losses and a less competitive industrial sector environment. Finally, the
DRC of the net foreign exchange earned through exports from iniustries
subject to Sector Programs tends to be among the highest of Mexico's
industry.
49.      While initially, the Sector Programs served a useful purpose,
stimulating investment and export growth in certain subsectors, but
generally at a high economic cost, these programs have outlived their
usefulness, particularly in an economy that is opening up as rapidly as
Mexico's. Consequently, since the protection presently being granted to
these sectors is no longer justified, the Government has agreed to reduce
them to levels comparable to those in other sectors and make them more
transparent. This strategy has been defined in consultation with industry
representatives, taking into consideration existing contractual
arrangements, as necessary. The action plans to deregulate individual
Sector Programs include the reduction of QRs and DCRr, the flexibilization
of foreign exchange balance requirement, and the rationalization of price
controls and compulsory R&D spending together with other measures
restricting market forces. Specific actions for each program are presented
below.
Automotive Industra
50.      In 1981 the automotive sector accounted for about 60? of Mexico's
trade deficit. To promote the national autoparts industry. improve the
integration of the various stages of production and to increase exports,
the automotive industry sectoral program was established in 1984.
51.      The automotive industry consist.s of auto and truck vehicle and
parts producers. All must comply with DCRs, which vary depending upon
whether production is for the domestic or export market. Foreign ownership
of Mexican autoparts firms is limited to 40?. The number of lines and
models which auto producers may manufacture are limited. Production of
gasoline trucks are restricted. Maquiladoras which produce autoparts are
exempted from the regulations.
52.      Recently the Government has made significant progress in
deregulating the industry by changing some important regulations. DCRs on
exports of both automobiles and auto parts were redvced from 602 to 302,
restrictions on the imports of steel (which is important for the automative
sector), were eliminated, and tariffs on imported "kits" were abolished.
In addition, auto producers were allowed to produce a wider variety of
models for exports. These changes are supported under the Industrial
Restructuring Project approved by the Board of Directors on April 25, 1989.
53.      The volume of automobile exports has increased significantly and,
after several years of stagnation, the export value of autoparts has almost
quadrupled since 1984. While both product categories accounted for over
272 of manufacturing exports in 1987, the automobile sector presently
accounts for about 1.32 of GDP. Because of subsequent economy-wide trade
liberalization which occurred after the establishment of the Sector
Programs, the protection provided to the sectors covered by the Sector
Programs has increased relative to other sectors. Currently, effective
protection for automobile production is about 502 compared to the 15?
average for the manufacturing industry as a whole. On the other hand, the



-17 -
estimated effective protection for autoparts of about 82 is below the
manufacturing sector average (Table 2). These estimates do not take into
account either the protection granted to autoparts and the implicit
taxation on autos stemming from DCRs to car producers or the effects of the
remainir.g features of the program. However, the significant decline in
real wages has contributed to improving the sector's competitiveness.
54.      To further increase the competitiveness of the Mexican automotive
industry and to improve industry wide resource allocation, the Government
has agreed to implement a plan of action to deregulate the automotive
sector (including trucks, buses and parts) comprising the following
measures:
ti)    imports of automobiles, light, medium and heavy trucks,
tractor-trailer trucks and buses will be opened gradually,
beginning with the 1991 model year. The liberalization of
new cars, similar to the ones domestically produced, and all
trucks will proceed in the following stages:
-    initially vehicle producers and, subsequently, other
importers will be allowed to import;
-    initially imports of economy cars will be permitted,
bhile other types of cars to complement domestically
produced lines will be imported later, and
-    QRs will be maintained for luxury cars not similar to
the domestically produced ones. QRs on cars, trucks and
buses, similar to those domestically produced, will be
gradually reduced to increase international
competitiveness of domestic car producers;
(ii)    DCRs for the production of automobiles, light, medium and
heavy trucks, tractor-trailer trucks and buses will be
reduced gradually. In the first step concerning the 1991
models, DCRs for automobiles produced for the local market
will be lowered from 602 to 502 and by 10 percentage points
for each category of trucks and buses (DCRs for light trucks
is 702, for medium and heavy trucks is 802, and for tractor-
trailer trucks and buses is 90?). DCRs will be further
reduced for subsequent model years;
(iii)    DCRs for autoparts will be reduced gradually, beginning with
a reduction from 60t to 502 in the 1991 year model. Also.
the remaining QRs on autoparts imports will be removed
gradually;
(iv)    depending on the results of the program for DCR and QR
reduction, the foreign exchange balance requirements between
exports and imports will be made more flexible;
(v)    regulations restricting efficient organization of production
of vehicle and autoparts producers (e.g., restrictions
concerning the number of car models and lines) will be
eliminated; and
(vi)    an official announcement will be made that the above program
of import liberalization and industrial deregulation for the
automotive sector will begin with model year 1991.



- 18 - a
55.      The Government agreed to carry out a study to elaborate the new
strategy for the automotive sector, analyze the sector's competitiveness
and strengthen the regulatory framework for environmental and safety
standards. The release of the second tranche of the loan will be
contingent upon: (i) satisfactory progress in implementing the above-
described plan of action for the automotive sector and (ii) agreement on a
plan for future action that takes into account the recommendations of the
aforementioned study.
Pharmaceutical Industry
56.      Pharmaceutical production represents 0.42 of GDP.  A shortage of
pharmaceuticals in 1983 led to the creation of the Pharmaceutical Sector
Program in 1984. Reflecting the Bank's dialogue with the Government, the
Government let this Sector Program expire at the end of 1988 while honoring
existing commitments which will expire gradually over the next five years.
The Sector Program aimed at developing a national pharmochemical industry
through import substitution and restrictions on DFI. The Sector Program
sought to obtain maximum self-sufficiency with the ultimate target that 982
of all pharmaceutical requirements and 60X of all active ingredients
(pharmochemicals) would be produced in Mexico. Imports of pharmochemicals
are constrained by QRs and DCRs, and health requirements restrict
pharmaceutical imports. A further objective is to provide medicines at
accessibleO prices. The Sector Program also stater that exports should
represent a minimum of 142 of pharmaceutical sales and 30? of
pharmochemical sales. Entry of new firms is Alowed only if inc-umbents
cannot meet domestic demand. In addition, public sector procurement, which
represents 202 of the domestic consumption of pharmaceuticals, favors
Mexican firms.  Other regulations include price controls and quality norms.
Restrictions on imports and firm entry have reduced competition in the
pharmaceutical industry. Public bidding for pharmaceutical products which
is restricted to domestic producers is usually ineffective because of a
monopolistic domestic market structure. Price controls deter entry and
growth in many basic pharmaceutical products. Furthermore, there is a
potential for conflict of regulatory responsibilities and objectives
between SECOFI, which administers the program, and the Health MInistry,
which implements health regulations.
57.      The pharmaceutical Sector Program has not achieved its most
important goals. This subsector had the worst growth performance amorg the
sectors subject to Sector Programs. From a positive average growth rate of
2? p.a. during 1981-1986, output declined by 1.4? in 1987 (Table 2).
Exports have remained about the same as before the program was initiated
and the industry continues importing almost half of its raw materials. To
increase efficiency and promote further growth in the industry, the
Government bas reformulated its strategy for the pharmaceutical sector and,
as stated above, it has not renewed the current program. The rules on
pricing and DFI have recently been relaxed and the National Commission for
Foreign Investment (NCFI) now automatically approves applications for DFI
in the sector. However, the existence of price controls on basic
pharmaceuticals continues to be an important disincentive to investment in
this industry. Moreover, the effective protection of 32? for this sector
continues to be more than double the manufacturing sector's average
effective protection rate of 15.5? (Table 2).



:z 19 -
58.      To address the above issues the Government has agreed: (i) not to
renew this Sector Program; and (ii) to implement a gradual and concerted
elimination of QRs and to reduce DCRs for pharmochemicals, both in parallel
with the expiration of existing contractual arrangements. Initially, QRs
on 15 harmonized tariff items will be eliminated, and further reductions
will take place subsequently. In this context the Government has also
agreed to carry out a study as a basis to establish a clear classification
of products, appropriate health standards and procedures for the
pharmaceutical industry, and implement an efficient price policy, including
international bidding for public health procurement. Satisfactory progress
in implementing the plan of action for the pharmaceutical industry and
agreement on a plan to implement the recommendations derived from the study
are conditions for second tranche release.
Petrochemical Industry
59.      The petrochemical industry accounts for about 0.3Z of GDP.  The
Petrochemical Sector Program was established in 1986, with the objective of
increasing private sector participation in the production of
petrochemicals. The Sector Program: (i) lim-4ts the state-owned Petroleos
Mexicanos' (PEMEX) role to being the sole domestic producer of 34 products
classified as basic petrochemicals, leaving the production of downstream
products to the private sector, (ii) requires PEMEX's basic petrochemical
pricing policy to be flexible (in practice, prices have been set at 80Z of
their international levels since 1983), (iii) permits direct imports of
basic petrochemicals by the private sector, and (iv) promotes the selective
use of fiscal instruments to foster petrochemical investments. 'While
secondary petrochemicals are produced by the private sector, entry into the
sector requires authorization by an official commission. DFI is also
restricted to secondary industries and with a 402 maximum participation;
100? DFI is permitted in the tertiary sector. Although the assezsment of
the opportunity cost and availability of natural gas in Mexico is eritical
to the design of a sector strategy, the program does not take it in%o
account.
60.      Under the Pacto, a 30? subsidy on energy inputs was eliminated and
the PEMEX prices for basic petrochemicals have been frozen. This price
freeze, at a time when international prices are going up, has resulted in
domestic feedstock prices that are below international levels. By mid-1988
almost all basic petrochemical products were liberalized from import
licensing and tariffs ranged from 0 to 15?.
61.      The key problems of the industry are the lack of a reliable supply
of basic products from PEMEX and of a clearly articulated strategy by the
Government to deal with PEMEX's dominant position in the industry. For
these reasons, private secondary petrochemical companies in Mexico are at a
disadvantage compared with their international competitors. First, they
cannot vertically integrate. Second, the unreliable supply from PEMEX
forces them to source part of their basic inputs in the international spot
market. Third, vertically integrated international competitors can impute
transfer prices for their inputs well below prices charged on sales to
Mexico. Fourth, since foreign suppliers view the Mexican market as short-
lived due to PEMEX's ongoing expansion plans, they supply basic
petrochemical inputs to Mexican secondary producers at less favorable rates



- 20 _
than those offered to other large non-integrated companies on long term
contracts.
62.      The Government has agreed to implement a plan of action for this
sector which includes the following key measurest (i) limiting the
exclusive right of PEMEX to producing a maximum number of 25 basic
petrochemical products and defining an initial list of secondary
petrochemicals that are open to private sector participation; and
(ii) encouraging cooperative arrangements between the private sector and
PEMEX. Satisfactory progress in implementing this plan of action is a
condition for second tranche release.
Micro-computer Industry
63.      The major elements of the micro-computer program are QRs, DCRs,
and duty-free imports of inputs. DFI is normally limited to minority
ventures approved by the NCFT. Since 1986, the program has been changed
significantly, by eliminating QRs on components, spare parts and
peripherals, and by reducing DCRs. In practice, DCRs have been largely
circumvented and producers have tried to increase their effective rates of
protection by producing items with less value added, usually micro-
computers assembled from fully imported parts. As a consequence, domestic
prices of micro-computers have been brought down from 2502 to 1252 of the
U.S. list price. Although this sector accounts only for a very small share
of GDP, its present level of high protection is unwarranted and unnecessary
given the degree of international competitiveness already attained. The
Government agreed to implement the following plan of action, including the
phasing out of this program by the end of 1992: (i) gradual import
liberalization of new computers starting by allowing imports of specialized
hardware (e.g., Laptop computers, Laser printers) until complete
elimination of QRs is achieved in 1992. Gradual reduction of DCRs for
computer production beginning with one-third of current levels of DCRs
until complete elimination in 1992; (ii) foreign exchange balance
requirements will be made more flexible depending on the results of the
programs; and (iii) the Sector Program will be phased out by the end of
1992. The Government has also agreed to carry out a study of Mexico's
international competitiveness in micro-computers. Satisfactory progress in
implementing the program and agreement on implementing a strategy based on
the recommendations of the study are conditions of second tranche release.
C.       Competitive Goods Markets
64.      In addition to protecting specific industries through the sectoral
programs, the Government has protected domestic industry in general through
trade policy instruments, price controls, and various forms of entry
barriers. Entry by private firms and foreign investment have been
restricted in some "strategic' industries. Moreover, the sectoral approach
is further reinforced through Government intervention in factor markets as
discussed in Section D of this Chapter. In addition, bureaucratic
requirements have not only made entry difficult, but also imposed a
substantial cost on doing business in Mexico. In this section, some of the
major policy issues impairing competition in the goods markets and measures
to cope with them are discussed in the areas of: (i) trade policy, (ii)
price controls, (iii) entry barriers, and (iv) bureaucratic procedures



- 21 -
(cost of doing business). Price controls will only be discussed briefly
since they are being dealt with in detail in the President's Report for the
proposed FSL.
Trade Policy Reform
65.      The onset of the debt service payments crisis in 1982 saw
quantitative controls on all imports, and thus protection of all domestic
production of import substitutes. As mentioned earlier, since mid-1985,
Mexico has undertaken a fast and far-reaching liberalization of the trade
regime, aimed at expanding the tradeables sector, opening up to
international competition and encouraging efficiency in both exporting, and
import-substitution activities. In 1986 Mexico acceded to the GATT. The
pace of liberalization was quickened in 1987, and early 1988 as part of the
Pacto. The trade liberalization process was supported by the following
Bank operations: TPL I (Loan 2745-ME), TPL II (Loan 2882-ME), First and
Second Export Development Loans (EDP I, Loan 2331-ME and EDP II Loan
2777-ME) and the AGSAL (Loan 2918-ME). As explained in para. 7 above, it
will take some time before the full impact of the trade policy reform
measures will be felt. However, the initial results are promising as
incentives have been redirected and the restructuring toward more efficient
activity has begun.
66.      The key reforms have included reductions in the coverage of NTBs
and tariffs as reflected in the following table:
Trade Liberalization 198S-1989
June 85 DOc 86  June 86 Dec 86  June 87 Dec 87  may 88  Mlar 899/
Import Liconsing !/  92.2   47.1    46.9   39.8    85.8   26.4    28.2   22.8
Reference Prices a/  18.7   25.4    19.0   18.7    13.4    0.6     0.0    0.0
Tariff - Rango   0-100   0-100    0-45   0-46    0-40   0-20    0-20   0-20
-Average g/   238.    289.  24.0   24.S    22.7   11.8    11.0   12.6
Real Exchange Rate */100    127.1   148.5  157.4   164.8  147.2   124.8  122.4d/
a  Percentage coverag, of production of tradeables; 1986 weights.
J Weighted by production of traduables In 1986; excludes SX surcharge.
;I Preliminary Bank estimates.
J  Latest exchange rate index Is for December 1988
/  Trae weighted foreign prices relative to the domestic price level.
67.      The progress in trade liberalization has been impressive.  Import
licensing coverage is now 22.3? of domestic production which is less than
one-quarter of what it was in June 1985, official reference prices (ORPs)
have been completely abolished, the maximum tariff is now 20? and the
average tariff is about 13?, i.e., about one-fifth and one-half
respectively of what they were in June 1985. As pointed out in para. 8,
progress as of early 1989 had gone beyond the Government's original
schedule, GATT commitments, and the targets in the TPL II and the AGSAL.



- 22 -
68.      This substantial opening up of the economy was achieved quickly
during a period of considerable macroeconomic instability and uncertainty.
The priority now is for a period of consolidation of the impressive
improvements in the neutrality, transparency and simplicity of the trading
regime, and deepening of reforms in areas where there has been lesser
progress so far. The Government has recently published a Trade Policy
Statement with a clear indication of its commitment to maintaining existing
achievements and making further advances over time to enhance the
neutrality, transparency and simplicity of the trade regime. The current
trade regime and proposed reforms are discussed below, and set out in more
detail in Annex VII.
69.      Quantitative Restrictions have been an important element in the
Mexican trade regime and have been used to achieve both protective and
macroeconomic objectives. After the balance of payments crisis of 1982,
100? of imports were controlled by QRs. They were not much reduced in the
1982-84 period, but from July to December 1985 coverage of domestic
production of competing tradeables was dramatically reduced to 46?, and
from 1986 further reductions took place, leaving only 22.3! of domestic
production and about 18X of imports currently subject to controls. Most of
the import restrictions remain in the agricultural and agroindustry sectors
(6.2? and 6.12 of production, respectively), followed by petroleum and
derivatives (5.5?) and the industrial sector programs (2.7?).
70.      This position represents an improvement of about 10 percentage
points in production coverage of QRs beyond the targets in TPL II and the
AGSAL. The following table shows the March 1989 and TPL I and II target
positions on the basis of both 1983 and 1986 weights. The reweighting is
approximate (and the figures in the table have been rounded to reflect
that).
Quantitative Restrictions al
Situation        TPL II targets     TPL I targets
March 1989 b/          end-1987          end-1987
1986    1983       1986     1983         1983
weights  weights    weights  weights      weights
All tradeables  22.3     34         33         43.1         49.8c/
Oil & Der.       5.5     20.5        5.5       20.5         20.5
Other           16.8     13         27         22.6         29.3
a/ Coverage of domestic production of competing tradeables: 1983 or 1986
weights.
b, Preliminary estimates.
cl Plus 13.3? of coverage of ORPs giving total (net) NTB coverage of 63.12
of tradeables.
71.      The protective incidence of the remaining QRs is likely to be quite
variable. Mexico is an exporter of oil and derivatives and the QRs are
likely to have little protective effect. In industry, the QRs support the



- 23 -
Sector Programs for autos and auto-parts, microcomputers and
pharmaceuticals. Mexico has significant exports of auto-parts and autos.
In agriculture and agro-industry the QRs support price controls, guaranteed
prices and international marketing agreements. Again many of the products
are exportables. The ISPL will support a program of further reductions in
the coverage of QRs. The Government agreed to implement the following
measures: (i) by November 1989, reduce QRs coverage by about 0.5 percentage
points plus any progress derived from the deregulation of the Sector
Programs; and (ii) further reduce QRs coverage depending on the evolution of
the Sector Programs and measures to be taken in the context of a possible
future Second AGSAL. Satisfactory progress in the implementation of this
action plan is a condition for second tranche release.
72.      Tariffs have been dramatically reduced over the last few years.  As
of June 1985, tariffs ranged from 0 to 100Y, with a production-weighted
average of 23.5Z. By end-1987 the maximum tariff had been reduced to 202
(lower than the target of 30? set in the TPL II and lower than Mexico's GATT
bindings). As of July 1988 Mexico introduced the Harmonized System of
tariff classification. Mexico has signed the GATT Customs Valuation Code,
and as noted above has eliminated all ORPs for imports.
73.      Since December 1988 and within the 1989 Mexican Budget objectives,
the tariff structure has been consolidated to raise revenues and reduce the
variability of protection across importable activities. The new tariff
structure raises tariffs for many items previously subject to the 0 and 5?
rates to 10?. Only about 310 tariff items out of a total of about 12,000
items now are subject to 0 and 5? rates, but these items account for about
23? of imports (July to December 1988). This structure leads to production-
weighted average of 12.6Z and an import-weighted average of 9.9?.
74.      By the standards of most developing countries, both nominal and
effective rates of protection stemming from tariffs are no longer high or
markedly dispersed in Mexico. Further progress can be made on reducing
tariffs and thus reducing the variability of protection, but this is not an
urgent task. More important is the consolidation of existing progress and
reduction of the uncertainty about the continuation of the trade reform. As
stated in its Letter of Industrial Sector Policy (Annex IV), the Government
intends to avoid any significant reversal of past reforms.
75.      Export regulations have also been significantly liberalized,
although traditionally they have been less binding than import controls (and
information is scarcer). By mid-1988, export taxes prevailed for 2.4? of
exports or only 0.6? of production, and the coverage of export licences was
13.1? of exports or 24.82 of production of tradeable goods, as compared with
48.9? in 1982. The controls can be differentiated between those exercised
by SECOFI and those due to quotas, export monopolies or preservation of rare
flora and fauna. SECOFI's export controls concern industry (4.1?) and
agroindustry (2.5?). The Government agreed to carry out a study in support
of a strategy to eliminate "voluntary* export controls and to introduce an
auction system for allocation of "involuntary' export quotas (due to
international agreements). Completion of the study and agreement on an
action plan for implementing the recommendations of the study are conditions
for second tranche release.



- 24 -
76.      An Anti-Dumping law and regulations were introduced in 1985-86.  In
1988 Mexico signed the GATT Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Code. While the
experience with the new system is limited and conclusions are tentative,
there was some appearance of protectionist tendencies in 1987 and 1988,
inconsistent with the opening-up of the economy: (i) the number of cases
has increased rapidly; (ii) the 'injury test" is not playing a strong role
in evaluation of dumping; (iii) high anti-dumping duties have been imposed;
(iv) in 1988 the first "ex-officio' case was initiated covering 12 countries
and a wide range of products.
77.      The Government has confirmed its desire to ensure that the Mexican
anti-dumping practice is consistent with trade liberalization and will
review the experience of the anti-dumping system, particularly with regard
to consistency with the trade liberalization process. The Government has
agreed to implement an action plan for further improvement in the anti-
dumping system, through improved training programs and information systems.
The Government has also agreed to carry out a study to review unfair trade
practice regulations. Satisfactory progress in implementing this action
plan, completion of the study and agreement on a plan for implementing its
recommendations are conditions for second tranche release.
78.      Mexico uses several temporary import and duty drawback schemes to
allow exporters access to duty fres imported inputs including: (i) the
maquila enclave industry; (ii) temporary imports based on three year export
agreements providing duty free access to imported inputs and machinery, and
reimburses indirect taxes; and (iii) duty drawback which reimburses duties
paid. The schemes have been improved since 1985 with Bank assistance under
EDP II to expand coverage and improve benefits. The schemes have expanded
rapidly in recent years along with a strong growth in exports.
79.      Some 600 firms accounting for roughly one third of manufactured
exports use the temporary imports and duty drawback system. Many other
exporting firms which had imported inputs at zero or low duties will likely
avail themselves of the schemes with the consolidation of tariffs at the
10 percent rate. The schemes reportedly work reasonably well, although they
suffer the typical difficulties of all such schemes -- very hard to cover
indirect, distant and small exporters; high administrative costs; and
leakage to the domestic market.
Price Controls
80.      Prices on goods produced by the private sector are controlled by
SECOFI; and those produced by the public sector are controlled by SHCP
(Ministry of Finance and Public Credit). Changes in policies between 1985
and 1987 have reduced the number of products subject to controls to basic
commodities and made the criteria for setting prices more flexible. Many of
the price controls were eliminated in conjunction with the removal of import
and export restrictions during this period.
81.      While in 1982, strict price controls covered about 22Z of total
production, at present only about 92 of total production is covered by
controls. In October 1985, the Government introduced another category of
price controls, caLied "registered controls,' where price changes are
partially indexed to inflation. At present, products under registered price



- 25 -
controls account for about 62 of production. A third category of price
controls applies to about 5Z of production, and requires only that any price
increase be registered with SECOFI.
82.      Since 1982, substantial adjustments have also been made in the
prices of the goods and services produced by the public sector, based on
international price comparisons as well as costs of production. For
example, the domestic price of gasoline was adjusted from 462 of its border
price in 1982, to 742 in 1985 and to almost 1002 in 1987.
83.      In a few commodities, price controls have led to market shortages
(e.g., in milk, eggs, meat). In pharmaceuticals, the controls have caused
disruption and uncertainty as firms have tried to evade controls through
stopping operations temporarily and reopening with higher prices. Before
the introduction of the Pacto, the industry and Government agreed on a
pricing approach according to three categories: (i) generics (basic list);
(ii) over the counter products (subject to quarterly, inflation-adjusted
price increases); and (iii) prescription drugs. As part of the Pacto, in
December 1987 a price freeze on publicly produced goods and services was
introduced and in March 1988, virtually the same products under SECOFI price
controls were made subject to the Pacto rules. Since appraisal of the three
adjustment operaticns in October 1988, the Government has taken policy
actions towards a more flexible system. The current phase of the Pacto
includes adjustments in public sector prices, a daily depreciation of the
exchange rate, and selective adjustments in controlled prices in response to
shortages of particular products (para. 19). This is a clear move in the
right direction and further progress towards a more flexible system should
be an important component of the economic policies to be implemented after
the PECE expires on July 31, 1989. The proposed ISPL will support this
strategy in the context of the deregulation of industrial sector programs,
particularly pharmaceuticals.
Entry Barriers
84.      There is a range of entry barriers in the Mexican industrial sector
(Annex VIII). Several "strategic' industries e.g., petroleum and
hydrocarbons, basic petrochemicals, and certain mining activities, are
reserved for the Mexican Government and other industries are reserved for
Mexican nationals (para. 97). However, the recent publication of the
Reglamento to the DFI Law has reduced entry barriers in these sectors.
Entry barriers are also evident in industries that use forest, mineral,
aquatic and other resources where laws governing property rights are not
well defined. Entry is also regulated through licensing in industries
promoted through SECOFI's Sector Programs (Annex VI). To some extent,
bureaucratic licensing procedures also serve as an entry barrier. Under the
proposed ISPL, entry to the petrochemical sector will be facilitated because
the Government will define a narrower range of basic petrochemicals and will
support cooperative arrangement between PEMEX and the private sector (para.
62), and will encourage entry through the deregulation of the others Sector
Programs. Other regulatory issues are expected to be addressed in
connection with possible Bank operations providing support to the mining and
forestry sectors. In addition, the regulatory changes supported by the
proposed PERL will also facilitate entry.



- 26 -
Cost of Doing Business (Bureaucratic Procedures)
85.      Extensive bureaucratic requirements significantly raise the cost of
doing business in Mexico. Lengthy procedures are needed to register and
start up a business, change its name, and comply with many regulations
related to its operation. Additional regulatory procedures must be followed
by firms making DFI, or bringing in new technology. These procedures cause
particular problems for small and medium sized firms since larger firms and
conglomerates normally have specialized legal departments to handle
bureaucratic requirements. The evidence on the costs to firms of these
procedures is not conclusive, because transaction and opportunity costs are
difficult to measure. However, preliminary estimates suggest that
regulations affecting operations could in some cases account for 32 to 5? of
a firm's operating costs and opening a business may take up to 420 days.
86.      The bureaucratic procedures confronting firms may be divided into
two general categories, registration/establishmentlexit and operations of
enterprises. To register and establish a firm involves 17 separate
procedures and 5 ministries. Many of the steps seem unnecessary (e.g.
authorization from the Ministry of External Relations and Justice) or
redundant (separate steps involving different sections of one ministry).
The bureaucratic requiremcrts for operating a firm are even more extensive,
Involving 13 different Government entities. Many of the operational
requirements are linked to various industrial regulatory policies. Among
these are taxation, health regulations, SECOFI-managed permits covering
transfer of technology, price controls, and norms and patents. Operational
procedures are also lengthy and individual steps could take as long as 180
days.
87.      A number of important measures to simplify bureaucratic procedures
have been taken in the past few years and Government entities report a
significant number of measures toward simplification. Among the changes
affecting business specifically, registration and installation procedures
for microenterprises have been substantially reduced with a one stop window
established to handle them. The time for issuing licenses for new
construction has also been reduced to about one day and family home
construction has been exempted from licensing requirements.
88.      The recent simplification of the Fiscal Code has had a substantial
impact on the time spent in filing tax forms and returns. The introduction
of the Forum for National Consultation for Fiscal Simplification in 1987
specified 84 simplification measures. The process of simplifying the norms
and procedures and information flows between the federal fiscal authorities
and the lower-level fiscal entities has started and SHCP is committed to
further simplification. Finally, the position of ombudsman in SHCP has been
established whose task is to study ways to simplify procedures for taxpayers
and to follow-up specific complaints. To study the regulatory distortions
in goods, factors and service markets a program for economic deregulation
was also established by Presidential Decree.
89.      While the scope for further administrative simplification is still
substantial, issues are complex and often not well understood. In order to
achieve more meaningful results, the Government, by Presidential decree, has
established a task force for administrative simplifications, that will study
the factors causing the high costs of bureaucratic procedures, explore ways
of simplifying them and reducing their costs, develop specific proposals for



- 27 -
doing so, and oversee their implementation. The Government has recently
published a strategic plan for administrative simplifications and agreed to
implement the following actions in the context of the ISPL: (i) Ministry of
Foreign Relations: decentralization of authorization to constitute a
corporation to the offices in the cities of Toluca, Monterrey, Hermosillo,
Guadalajara and La Paz; (ii) SHCP: decentralization of decision-making
capacity to the different custom offices, automation of customs services,
simplification of formats, speeding up customs procedures, and for ALTEX
firms (highly export intensive firms), elimination of the required fiscal
guarantees and increase the time period to re-export merchandise in the
temporary imports regime, and reduction in the time spent in procedures by
ALTEX firms; and (iii) SECOFI: modernization to simplify and speed-up
licensing of imports and exports, simplification of procedures for:
registration, ALTEX firms, PITEX program (temporary admission), exports of
technology, engineering services and construction, tax rebates and textile
and steel quotas, simplification of the registration in the National
Registry for the Pharmaceutical Industry (NRPI). Improvement in inspection
visits to check the requirements for registration in the NRPI, permanent
registry of products and services subject to obligatory norms, permanent
authorization of the model for metrology instruments, and establish a
computerized system to register prices. Satisfactory progress in
implementing the above action plan is a condition for second tranche
release.
D.       Competitive Factors Markets
90.      As pointed out earlier, Mexico followed a consistent strategy of
industrial protection in the past. Policy interventions in factor markets
have reinforced the distortions in goods markets and they have reduced the
mobility of capital and labor. Protection was granted in the form of
different types of entry barriers in the goods markets (increasing the
return to capital) which are used more intensively in the production of
import substitutes. Also, interest rate subsidies, tax incentives for
investment, and restrictions on DFI and technology transfer have protected
the return on installed capital and have granted protection to the
production of capital intensive import substitutes. Moreover, the
selective use of these instruments has increased the distortions.
91.      When the Government adopted its new strategy of industrialization
in 1985, which takes into consideration the country's comparative
advantages, it first embarked on a program of trade reform. However, the
supply response of the economy to the changes in the incentive system
depends on the ability of production factors to adjust. A restrictive
regulatory framework causes rigidities in the factor markets. If these
rigidities continue, the program of trade reform may worsen economic
conditions rather than improving them. The Government recognizes that, to
ensure the feasibility of the new policy and to speed up adjustment, the
new industrial policy framework needs to be complemented by orderly
deregulation and the removal of distortions in factors markets.
92.      This section discusses the major issues affecting competitive
factor markets and strategies to cope with each of them. The major areas
of concern aret (i) fiscal and credit incentives; (ii) regulation and tax
treatment of DFI; (iii) regulations and incentives on R & D and technology
transfer; and (iv) labor mobility.



- 28 -
Fiscal and Credit Incentives
93.      Mexico's industrial strategy relied heavily on the selective use
of tax and credit incentives to direct investment to industrial subsectors
which the Government considered a priority. These incentive programs
reduced the cost of capital relative to the cost of labor and distorted
the cost of capital between sectors and between industrial subsectors.
They also induced misallocation of resources since they tended to favor
sectors with negative social rates of return and to promote rent-seeking
behavior in those subsectors receiving the highest incentives. Moreover,
the fiscal incentives reduced Government revenues and the credit incentives
increased budget outlays and distorted financial markets.
94.      Fiscal Incentives.  Selective tax incentives to industry have been
used extensively to promote investment and employment in the manufacturing
sector, decentralization and export development. The most important fiscal
instrument has been the CEPROFI with the amount of the tax credit based on
the size and location of the investment undertaken and the number of jobs
created. Beneficiaries of the program (other than small and medium sized
firms) are required to have an approved development program (programa de
fomento) with SECOFI. The manufacturing sector received 592 of the value
of CEPROFI's issued in 1985 of which some 8OZ went to priority sectors
(agro-industry, iron and steel and capital goods). The balance supported
the purchase of domestic machinery (16.52), SMI (1.7X) and employment
(1.62). Most of the benefits went to large firms, and only 32 were granted
through the special program for small enterprises, most likely due to the
program's costly and non-transparent procedures. The CEPROFI program has
already been eliminated for the majority of industrial activities, except
for micro and small enterprises, and for agriculture and construction of
low income rental housing. In the future, as stated in its Letter of
Industrial Sector Policy (Annex IV), the Government intends to limit the
use of CEPROFIs in the industrial sector to micro and small scale
enterprises and used only on an exceptional basis.
95.      Credit Incentives.   The granting of subsidized credit and the use
of directed lending have led to a significant misallocation of resources.
The development banks and FIDECOHISOS (trust funds) have mobilized
resources primarily from multilateral and bilateral sources and have been
used as instruments to channel fiscal transfers to priority sectors and
parastatals. Interest rate subsidies were reduced gradually between 1984
and 1987 as lending rates were adjusted upward towards the average cost of
funds rate of the commercial banking system (ACF), in accordance with the
General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA) between the Government and the Bank.
Isterest rate subsidies to industry have been significantly reduced under
the Pacto as all lending rates, except for industrial pollution control and
microenterprises, were set above the ACF. A reduction in the public sector
borrowing requirement and increased resource mobilization resulting from a
successful implementation of the Pacto, have lead to increased availability
of financial resources for the private sector including industry. The
Government has already begun to make the allocation of credit resources to
Fideicomisos and public development banks more transparent, and on the
basis of non subsidized loans rather than on equity contributions. The
Government has virtually eliminated credit subsidies to industry by
allowing banks to charge market based lending interest rates on all



- 29 -
industrial sector lending regardless of source. Because of the substantial
liberalization recently achieved within the commercial banking system
through the introduction of market determined interest bearing deposit
instruments, the ACF now reflects more appropriately the marginal cost of
funds for financial intermediaries and the subsidy element in new
industrial lending has virtually disappeared. As stated in its Letter of
Industrial Sector Policy (Annex IV), the Government is cormitted to
continue with the current interest rate policy and to increase credit
allocation to the industrial sector.
Direct Foreign Investment
96.      Increased DFI is essential to the modernization of Mexico's
industrial sector. DFI typically includes the transfer of capital,
technology, management and marketing, all essential for the modernization
of the industrial sector, and to make it more competitive. Moreover,
attracting the maximum possible flows of DFI is essential for maintaining a
sustainable external position and to supplement domestic savings to finance
a needed recovery of investment in Mexico. DFI averaged between 0.92 and
1.12 of GDP in the past, rising to 2.5Z of GDP in 1987, due primarily to
the large debt-equity swap program which has been suspended except for
pending applications. The suspension was based on concerns about possible
negative macroeconomic effects of swaps involving public debt in eschange
for private investment. Maintaining the past levels of DFI flows will not
be sufficient if DFI is expected to make a significant contribution to
Mexico's economic development. Consequently, a series of actions by the
Government is essential for achieving the levels of DFI required to meet
the objectives mentioned above. In this context, several key factors need
to be addressed that have a negative effect on DPI flows: (i) an unstable
macroeconomic environment; (ii) a restrictive regulatory framework; (iii)
discretionary DFI approval procedures; and (iv) tax disadvantages.
97.      The Foreign Investment Law incorporates the following restrictions
on DFI: (i) product groups reserved exclusively for the Mexican public
sector include petroleum and other hydrocarbons, basic petroleum products,
radioactive and strategic minerals, nuclear energy, electricity, railroads,
telegraphic and radio communications, banking and other activities as may
be specified; (ii) product groups reserved exclusively for Mexican public
or private sectors include radio and television, agricultural activities,
road, air and maritime transportation, forestry, gas distribution and
financial intermediation; and (iii) product groups which must have majority
local control without exception include mining and basic industrial
subsectors such as steel, cement, glass, secondary petrochemicals, and
aluminum. Main criteria used by the NCFI are that DFI must: (i) complement
and not displace national companies; (ii) have positive balance of payments
and employment effects; (iii) utilize some local inputs in production; (iv)
contribute to technological modernization; (v) improve product prices and
quality; and (v) preserve Mexican social and cultural values.
98.      The Law also establishes a 49? limit on foreign equity
participation as a general principle, and allows exceptions subject to a
case by case review. Thus, although all DPI must be registered with the
National Registrar of Poreign Investments (NRFI), new projects with up to
49? foreign capital do not require prior approval. However, new
acquisitions which bring foreign ownership above 25? have to be approved.



- 30 -
The policy from 1973 to 1983 was to strictly enforce the 49Z limitation,
and therefore, it is often mistakenly assumed that majority Mexican
ownership policy is in fact require under the lav. Foreign ownership of
100? has been allowed for approved in-bond assembly operations (maquila),
and on an exceptional basis for specific projects primarily under sectoral
programs (e.g., automobile production, tertiary petrochemicals,
pharmaceuticals, computers).
99.      In addition to the above restrictions, inadequate patent and
trademark protection, and lack of product patent protection for chemicals
and pharmaceuticals, discouraged technology intensive DFI. Another factor
which discouraged DFI was the 50? withholding tax on dividend remittances
to foreign companies. This was significantly higher than the total of
federal and state taxes against which the taxes withheld by Mexico could be
credited in the U.S. (from which 65? of DFI flows originate). Moreover,
the lack of a bilateral taxation agreement with the U.S. and other
countries from which DFI may originate also tends to discourage DFI.
Beginning in 1989, the Government harmonized the tax systems by eliminating
the deductability of dividends as well as the withholding tax on
remittances to foreign companies while aligning the corporate income tax
rate.
100.     In February 1984, the NCFI announced that Mexico's policy would
favor DFI. Since 1986, foreign companies with less than $8 million in
sales and less than 500 employees have been exempted from the approval
process if they exported at least 35Z of their production, maintained a
neutral balance of payments position and did not operate in the commerce or
service sectors. In November 1987, a new resolution simplifying the
general resolutions for implementing the Foreign Investment Law was issued.
This helped resolve some inconsistencies and simplified administrative
procedures. For firms already established in Mexico, the new rules
permitted up to the approved maximum ownership and provided some
liberalization for capacity expansion and relocation. In 1988, the NCFI
published clearer criteria for approving majority foreign owned projects
and established a reference system that specifies the criteria applied in
more than 1,500 previous decisions to serve as a body of precedents in
order to provide more consistency in the approval process. The NCFI also
compiled a compendium of regulations with a view to streamlining them.
101.     Significant progress has recently been achieved with the
publication of the Reglamento of the DFI Law on May 16, 1989 involving: (i)
the regulations of the Law, which were never issued before; (ii) a single
general resolution issued in 1987, that consolidated all general
resolutions issued from 1973 to 1986; and (iii) a simplified version of the
Reglamento to register DFI. To further simplify procedures, the Law and
this Reglamento consolidate the regulatory framework on DFI, therefore,
derogating all existing regulations referring to topics covered in the
Reglamento.
102.     The Reglamento of the DFI Law contains measures: (i) allowing
automatic 100? DFI participation in activities comprising about 60? of GDP,
requiring only the registration of the investment with the NCFI. This
procedure applies if minimum requirements concerning exports, regional
development, technology and investment size are met; (ii) allowing
increased participation of the private sector (domestic and foreign) in



- 31 -
areas subject to specific regimes; (iii) increasing transparency and speed
of NCFI decision making; and (iv) simplifying and deregulating registration
procedures in the NRFI. While the Law defines the activities reserved to
the Government and to Mexican investors and maximum DPI participation in
petrochemicals, autoparts and mining, the Reglamento clearly defines
concepts that were rather obscure in the Law, in order to reduce
discretionality and define precisely the scope of DFI. this goes a long
way towards eliminating the case by case approach to DFI approval and
registration in a significant number of activities.
103.     Another objective of the Reglamento is to simplify procedures for
those cases for which authorization is still required. It aims at reducing
the time elapsed between application, approval and registration from about
1 1/2 years, at present, to 2 months. Therefore, for the first time clear,
transparent and automatic rules have been established.
104.     Although significant liberalization of DFI has already been
attaii. d with the above measures, promotional efforts are just beginning
and further liberalization is still needed. The Government has agreed to
implement an action plan to promote DFI comprising: (i) implementing a
comprehensive DFI promotion program, to position Mexico as a country with
important comparative advantages, and willing to compete in the
international market for capital; (ii) elaborating periodically and making
widely available up-to-date information on the national economy; and (iii)
establishing a data bank on investment opportunities and on specific
projects with co-investment possibilities for SECOFI's Subsecretaria de
Industria e Inversion Extranjera (Vice-Ministry for Industry and Foreign
Investment) to function as a catalyst for co-investment. The Government
has also agreed to carry out a study to further promote and liberalize DFI.
Satisfactory progress in implementing the action plan on promotion, and
completion of the study and agreement on a plan of action for the
implementation of its recommendations are conditions for second tranche
release.
Industrial Technology
105.     In the context of increasing internationalization of the world
economy, increased competition, and more rapid technology change,
technology is becoming ever more significant as an element of industrial
policy. This is particularly important for Mexico in light of the ongoing
process of opening up its trade regime.
106.     Technology policies have actively encouraged the strengthening of
Mexican industrial development through building up public sector research
agencies and through technology transfer from abroad. Seven regional
centers coordinated by the National Council for Science and Technology
(CONACYT) provide applied research and technical assistance to industry.
The Technology Information Service (INPOTEC), a trust fund, was established
to serve as an industrial technology information service. Several major
universities are also active in research. However, on balance, the R & D
infrastructure has largely been unresponsive to the needs of private
industry. SECOPI has also begun to undertake programs to strengthen the
links between Mexican souL-ces of R & D and private firms. The authorities
revised the 1973 Invention and Trademark Law in 1987 to increase patent
protection from 10 to 14 years, strengthened penalties for infringement and



- 32 -
extended protection to several unprotected chemical and pharmaceutical
processes. However, product protection in these sectors is only to be
implemented in 1997. In addition, actions to streamline the administrative
process for granting such incentives were undertaken.
107.     More recent technology measures include the reduction in the
withholding tax on royalties payments from 21Z to 15X, granting of fiscal
incentives, promotion of DFI and specialized financing, the latter
supported by the Industrial Technology Development Loan (2747-ME) approved
by the Board of Directors in July 1986. Total science and technology
expenditures rose from 0.13? of GDP in 1982, to an estimated avera-e of
0.5? per year during 1984-1988, a level which is comparable to Brazil
(0.45% in 1982), but still well below Korea (2Z) and the highly
industrialized countries (Japan 3.4?, USA 3.12). Unfortunately, these
efforts have largely failed to reach private firms, especially small and
medium industrial enterprises. Expenditures on science and technology by
public sector agencies account for about 85? of total expenditures
(compared with about 60? in Brazil, 30? in Korea, and less than 202 in the
USA) and 95X is financed by Government (Brazil 66?, USA about 60X). In-
house industrial technological capability is mostly confined to large
parastatals, firms associated with multinationals, and a small number of
mostly large private firms. As a result, the current level of technology
in Mexican industry is very disparate. There are a very few state-of-the
art firms, a small number of reasonably modern and efficient firms, and a
large number of firms which are not competitive by world standards,
including many large and small traditional firms with little technological
capability.
108.     In order to increase the technological level of Mexican industry,
a series of regulatory, institutional, and even awareness obstacles must be
addressed. On the regulatory side, the key problems are that, in spite of
some recent moves in the direction of liberalization, there is still too
much control over DFI and technology transfers which keeps out, or makes it
more difficult to acquire, some of the foreign technology that is necessary
to improve the technological level of industry. In addition, there is a
need to strengthen protection and enforce property rights, to assure both
local and foreign investors, and technology suppliers that their
intellectual property rights will be protected. This is an important
factor to encourage local R & D, and to promote technology intensive DPI
and the transfer of technology to Mexican enterprises.
109.     On the institutional side, the key problems are: (i) insufficient
technical information and technical assistance services that can help
promote the diffusion and assimilation of technology, particularly among
small and medium size firms; (ii) weak and insufficiently developed norms
and standards that can help promote specialization and improvements in
quality; (iii) insufficient and cumbersome procedures for industrial
technology financing; (iv) a public research infrastructure that has not
been attuned to the technological needs of the productive sectors; and (v)
insufficient quantity and quality of technically oriented training in the
formal and informal educational systems. The incraasing exposure to a more
open economy has raised awareness of the importance of technology,
especially among the more modern firms. However, there is still not much
understanding of technology issues among the more traditional firms.
Regarding financial incentives, credit programs have been established to



- 33 -
provide loano at below market lending rates to higher risk industrial
technology development projects. Until the introduction of the Pacto,
fiscal incentives were granted to industrial firms for developing
technology.
110.     To raise the level of industrial technology in the industrial
sector, the Government agreed to implement a plan of action for technology
development, comprising: (i) facilitation of the access of firms to new
technology by eliminating excessive regulations from the Registry of
Technology Transfer; (ii) orientation of the activities of SECOFI's
Direccion General de Desarrollo Tecnologico (General Directorate for
Technology Development) towards a more active promotion of technological
modernization of firms; and (iii) coordination of efforts of different
entities and organizations in the public and private sectors, which are
involved with technological modernization of industries. The Government
has also agreed to carry out a study on major problems and constraints to
technology development including: (i) improving the protection of
industrial property to motivate technological innovation within industry
and strengthen property rights; and (ii) determining the merits of
continuing compulsory expenditures on R&D and of advancing patent
protection for chemicals and pharmochemicals to promote technology.
Satisfactory progress in implementation of the plan of action, completion
of the study and agreement on a plan for its implementation are conditions
for second tranche release.
Labor Mobility
111.     Labor mobility is crucial for a successful industrial
restructuring effort. The ease of transfer of labor across industries
requires wage flexibility as well as provision of training to facilitate
industrial labor mobility. In Mexico, real manufacturing wages declined by
about 40S between 1982 and 1987, reflecting a substantial degree of wage
flexibility. In this period the cost of labor in manufacturing has been
reduced to about one-half in dollar terms, i.e. to levels similar to those
in Korea and Brazil. This reduction in labor costs is, obviously,
associated with depressed macroeconomic conditions, but it is also a result
of concerted action between the Government and the labor unions to minimize
unemployment. Between 1982 and 1986, the decline in employment in the
manufacturing sector was mainly associated with economic recession and the
consequent decline in domestic demand. After 1986, when production started
to rise and the first stage of industrial sector restructuring was taking
place, employment did not increase significantly. The small increase in
employment in the export sector and the small decline in the import
substituting industries suggest that there may be problems in intersectoral
labor mobility, that expectations that the trade liberalization measures
would be reversed may have delayed adjustment, or that outputs were simply
shifted to exports.
112.     Existing labor legislation has introduced rigidity into the labor
market, by making the dismissal of workers very difficult and costly, which
has greatly impacted on small and medium-size firms. Moreover, the
manufacturing labor market has been segmented by the important role played
by unions. In fact, unionized sectors show a very different labor demand
behavior than less unionized sectors, which are more wage-elastic and
adjust more rapidly. Consequently, and as a result of the economic



- 34 -
recession, a relatively small reduction occurred in employment in highly
unionized industries, but at the cost of declining productivity and Labor
mobility. To support the necessary structural adjustment and growth in the
industrial sector, labor legislation may ultimately need to be modified to
improve labor mobility.
113.     In order to increase industrial labor mobility, the Government has
established, under the Bank's Manpower Training Project (Loan 2876-ME)
approved in October 1987, a pilot program for labor retraining, and has
established a Government employment service at the state level. A
preliminary diagnosis of the factors impairing labor mobility and a
catalogue of occupations and training needs have been prepared. Recently,
the Ministry of Labor and Social Security (STPS) has taken measures to
improve its mediation capabilities in industrial disputes. While these are
important steps in increasing labor mobility, clearly, more needs to be
done. Analysis of the factors impairing labor mobility would be continued
through a study supported undvr the proposed loan to ti) identify short-run
actions which can be carried out under existing labor laws, (ii) make
proposals for amending labor legislation to increase labor mobility, (iii)
identify skills mismatches across industries, and (iv) allow predominantly
export firms to enter into more flexible labor contracts. The Government
has agreed to carry out a study of these issues. Completion of the study
and agreement on a plan to implement the recommendations of the study are
conditions for second tranche release.
E.       The Trucking Sector
114.     Improving the regulatory environment for the Mexican industrial
sector is essential in order to establish competitive markets within which
manufacturing firms can modernize, become more efficient and competitive.
However, substantial improvement in services to industry, both in terms of
quality and in quantity, is of crucial importance to realize more fully the
effects of industry modernization and increase in industrial efficiency. A
key service which greatly affects the efficiency of industrial firms is
trucking. Any distortions or inefficiencies in the provision of this
service, such as delays, excessive freight rates and significant losses of
cargo in route, reduce any efficiency gains achieved in manufacturing, such
as through improved inventory management methods or more advanced
production techniques. Close to seventy percent of all cargo is moved by
road transport in Mexico, which is heavily regulated and has therefore been
included in the industrial sector policy program.
Road Transport Regulations
115.     Concessions for federal routes must be approved by the Government.
They are granted on a route by route basis and there are serious
restrictions to the operation of carriers across routes. Companies granted
a concession on a particular route must become members of the company
established for that route. Such companies enjoy a monopoly in their
particular route. Existing concessionaires have an important role in
approving increases in capacity on their route and are given preferential
trestment when new concessions are granted. Freight service centers play a
powerful role in allocating cargo among truckers. In many cases they
assign vehicles and thereby exert significant control over trucking



- 35 -
operations. A single freight forwarding company has a virtual monopoly on
the assignment of container movements, (although recently a second company
was allowed to operate as container agent) and only international cargo can
be shipped in containers. However, the Ministry of Communication and
Transport (SCT) has requested a change in legislation to allow
containerization of national cargo and thereby increase the capacity of
utilization of containers. Consolidation of containers is now taking place
in inland depots. Trucking rates are fixed by the Government for all
trucking services using formulas which are applied nationwide, but
unofficial payments appear to increase trucking costs significantly.
Finally, existing legislation limits compensation for lost or damaged cargo
to Mex$800 (about US$0.35 equivalent) per ton (Annex IX).
116.     Not all cargo movements are restricted to the concessionaires.
The Federal Government has the authority to designate some cargo as
*specializeds cargo and allow any properly registered vehicle with a permit
to operate to transport it without being subjected to the route
restrictions. Agricultural products, construction material, liquid
chemicals, mineral ores and some other bulk commodities can be transported
by any carrier. In addition, firms can move their own business cargo in
their own trucks without restriction, but can not move the cargo of other
enterprises.
117.     The existing system is costly and generates large distortions.  A
survey of manufacturing firms indicated the extent of current unreliability
and low quality of trucking services. Delayed shipments, damaged and lost
merchandise are widespread occurrences. Because of the freight center
allocation system, a user must use the trucking company to which his goods
are assigned regardless of his prior experience with the trucking firm.
Whereas large firms can negotiate more easily with concessionaires or move
cargo in their own vehicles, smaller firms are affected the most by the
existing system. The totally inadequate compensation limit for lost and
damaged cargo, creates little incentive to avoid such losses or to develop
insurance programs to cover them. The limitations on container movements
prevent the benefits from this mode of transport (including lower damage
and cargo losses) from being realized. In addition, existing restrictions
tend to reinforce the heavy geographical concentration of industry in
Mexico City since most authorized routes radiate from there and the cost of
serving the national market is, therefore greater from any other part of
the country.
118.     Changes in the present regulatory system are essential to provide
users with world class trucking services. A phased deregulation program is
necessary to avoid possible problems of overcapacity during the
implementation period. Accordingly, the Government has agreed to carry out
a comprehensive study on the regulatory environment for trucking services
with the purpose of producing a comprehensive, consistent and enforceable
program for the removal of impediments to competition and efficiency.
Completion of the study and agreement upon a plan of action for its
implementation are conditions for second tranche release.
F.       External Finance
119.     Given the sensitivity of Mexico's macroeconomic growth prospects
to the availability of external finance, adequate resource mobilization for



- 36 -
Mexico in 1989-94 will be of crucial economic and political importance.
The success of the adjustment program to be supported under the proposed
ISPL then hinges on Mexico's access to external finance. The Government
has already initiated discussions with principal external creditors,
including creditor nation governments, key bilateral donors and commercial
banks to design a financing package consisting of a blend of debt
reduction, restructuring and new money in adequate amounts to alleviate net
transfers abroad and meet the projected financing gap over the medium term.
It may be difficult to obtain commitment for financing for a long period,
which would be needed to restore confidence and revive investments, thus
helping recover economic growth. However, the expected presence of the IMF
with a three-year program and the policy content of the three proposed
adjustment operations should offer a measure of comfort to Mexico's
creditors as they consider providing a new financial package in 1989,
including some form of debt relief that can reduce net transfers to
external creditors from the current high level. Therefore, a condition for
loan effectiveness will be substantial progress in obtaining adequate
financing for Mexico's requirements for 1989-1990. Continued substantial
progress in obtaining financing for 1989-90 and for the medium term will be
a condition for second tranche release.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.       Loan HSstory
120.     Direct Bank support for the Government's program of opening the
Mexican economy began with EDP I in 1983, through which the Bank provided
financing and technical assistance for export promotion, in the context of
a liberalized import regime for exporters. In July 1986, TPL I was
approved to support the initial phase of trade liberalization measures in
Mexico. TPL II, approved in November 1987, was designed to provide support
for the phase of the trade reform implemented in 1987. The trade reform
measures actually implemented in 1987 and early 1988 went beyond those
required under TPL II, and remaining trade liberalization measures will be
carried out under the proposed ISPL. Also in 1987, EDP II was approved,
extending the assistance for export promotion achieved under EDP I.
Finally, in order to facilitate adjustment induced by the trade
liberalization process the Industrial Restructuring Project was approved in
April 1989. It supports restructuring of specific sectors and enterprises
exposed to foreign competition. The proposed ISPL compliments the efforts
began in 1985 to liberalize trade, as it will support measures to
deregulate the economy in order to achieve an industrial structure based on
competitive markets that is responsive to technological change. The loan
was appraised in October-November, 1988. Negotiations were held on March
7-15 and April 24-29, 1989. The Mexican delegation was led by Mr. Enrique
Vilatela. Supplementary loan data are provided in Annex III.
B.       Loan Objectives
121.     The proposed loan is part of a program of Bank support to the
Mexican Government's objectives of stabilizing the economy and resuming
growth. The loan supports a program of reforms to modernize the Mexican
industrial sector by removing distortions in goods, factor and service
markets, and at providing an appropriate institutional and regulatory
environment to enable industrial enterprises to meet the challenge of a



- 37 -
more competitive world economy and thereby stimulate investment and growth.
122.     The program of actions and the studies to be supported under the
ISPL embodies a wide-ranging deregulation effort which focuses on the
deregulation of the sector approach to industrial development, the easing
of bureaucratic procedures and barriers to entry, increasing factor
mobility (especially direct foreign investment, technology transfer, and
labor), and improving trucking services. Such a comprehensive set of
policy changes could not be expected to be carried out in full during the
time frame encompassed by the proposed loan. Consequently, the proposed
ISPL will seek to ensure that satisfactory progress is made initially under
all components of the program, and that subsequent steps are carefully
planned and programmed as conditions to use of Bank's funds. The reform
program, which is described in detail in Part III and is summarized in the
Government's Letter of Industrial Sector Policy (Annex IV) and the Policy
Matrix (Annex V), will have the following main objectives:
(i)    Direct Foreign Investment.  Liberalize foreign investment
regulations and procedures, introduce greater transparency and
automaticity into the system, harmonize tax treatment, and strengthen
promotional efforts to attract foreign investors.
(ii)   Industrial Technology.  Imprcve access to foreign
technology and promote domestic research and development activities.
(iii) Sector Programs. Gradually deregulate Sector Programs in
the automotive, petrochemicals, pharmaceuticals and microcomputer
subsectors as instruments of industrial promotion, in order to improve the
efficiency of resource allocation.
(iv) Goods Markets. Remove entry barriers and simplify
administrative procedures affecting enterprise competitiveness, efficiency
and costs.
(v)   Trucking Services.  Carry out a comprehensive study to
identify and remove impediments to competition and efficiency in the
trucking sector, and develop a plan to implement that study's
recommendations.
(vi) Trade Liberalization. Achieve further reductions in QRs in
line with import liberalization achieved under the Sector Programs, carry
out studies of rationalization of the allocation of involuntary export
quotas, elimination of voluntary export quotas, and the adequacy of unfair
trade practices regulations.
123.     Much needs to be done to restructure the regulatory framework and
the institutions which administer it. The proposed loan supports initial,
although in many cases, fundamental changes, as well as studies to identify
further policy changes or amendments to existing legislation needed to
improve the regulatory framework. Many of the measures supported by the
proposed loan will complement and supplement actions already taken by the
Government.



- 38 -
C.       The Borrower, the Guarantor and Proiect Implementation
124.     The Government has designated NAFIN as the borrower of the Bank
loan, in line with its function as Mexico's official industrial development
bank and financial agent of the Government. The loan would be guaranteed
by the Mexican Government. SHCP will be responsible for project
implementation. Specific borrowing and project implementation arrangements
were agreed upon during negotiations of the proposed loan.
D.       Disbursement, Procurement, Administration and Auditing
125.     The proposed loan will be released in two tranches, of US$250
million and US$247 million, respectively. US$3 million will be allocated
for technical assistance and to finance studies necessary to identify
further areas of liberalization and deregulation. The first tranche will
become available upon loan effectiveness, and the second tranche after
November 30, 1989 and upon the fulfillment of specific conditions for
tranche release. The Government has informed the Bank that the scope and
timing of implementation of the agreed upon actions concerning technology,
sector programs and trade liberalization may be affected according to
progress in internatiovil negotiations. At the same time, the Government
stated its intention to intensify the process of negotiations and to
establish a mechanism for consultation with the Bank to evaluate the
progress of negotiations based on market access. Without limiting the
provisions of the Loan Agreement, the Bank will take into account the state
of international negotiations in determining whether progress under the
program has been satisfactory to justify second-tranche release. The
closing date of the proposed ISPL will be June 30, 1990.
126.     The loan proceeds will be re-lent on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, and will be used to reimburse 100? of the foreign
cost of eligible imports (any import except those contained in a negative
list). Loan proceeds will be available for retroactive financing of import
expenditures incurred from February 15, 1989 up to a ceiling of US$100
million. The Government will compile import bills and payment documents
for immediate use of the loan funds upon the loan becoming effective.
127.     The Borrower will be responsible for maintaining loan accounts and
for the preparation and submission of withdrawal applications.
Disbursements from the proposed loan will be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure from Banco de Mexico detailing individual import
transactions in each relevant period, and their eligibility under the
proposed loan. Applications for withdrawal will be consolidated and
submitted in amounts of not less than US$5 million.
128.     Both private and public sector imports will be eligible for
financing. Individual contracts under US$ S million each will be awarded
on the basis of the normal procurement practices of the purchaser.
Individual contracts above US$ 5 million, will be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding following Bank Guidelines. Consultants
financed out of loan proceeds will have qualifications and terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank and will be selected
according to the Bank's guidelines for the employment of consultants.
129.     Audits of the supporting documentation for statements of



- 39 -
expenditure used for disbursements will be carried out annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit reports vill be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
E.       Medium Term FinanciAi  and Debt Reduction Support
130.     As explained in the President's Report of the proposed FSL Loan,
it may be difficult to mobilize new money in an amount sufficient to cover
Mexico's financial gap over the medium term. However, any financing short
of a multi-year commitment would compound macroeconomic problems and would
lead to continued uncertainty about Mexico's public finances and tax and
exchange rate policies. Therefore, the Government intends to include some
form of debt reduction in its next financing package, which would be
expected to restore confidence and thus spur investment and help recover
growth.
131.     Since without specific Bank assistance it may be difficult for the
Government to put in place effective debt reduction scheme, the Bank has
agreed that, subject to its agreement, up to US$125 million equivalent
under the second tranche of the proposed loan could be used for the
implementation of a debt plan which, in the Bank's judgment, shall meet the
requirements of the Bank's support of debt reduction programs.
F.       Loan Tranching
132.     Since appraisal, the Government has followed a policy consistent
with the objectives of trade liberalization and deregulation, and has taken
the following actions:
1.   publication of the Reglamento of the DFI Law (para. 101),
harmonization of the tax systems concerning profit remittance
(para. 99), reduction in the withholding tax on royalties
payments (para. 107), deregulation of interest rates to
industry (para. 95), announcement of policy statement on
trade, interest rates and fiscal incentives to industry
(para. 68, 94 and 95), and preparation of action plans
satisfactory to the Bank to: (i) promote direct foreign
investment (para. 104); (ii) promote technology development
(para. 110); (iii) deregulate Sector Programs in the
automotive (para. 54), petrochemicals (para. 62),
pharmaceuticals (para. 58), and microcomputer (para. 63)
sectors; (iv) achieve further improvement in trade regime
(para. 71 and 77); and (v) achieve administrative
simplification of bureaucratic procedures (para. 89)
2. reached agreement on terms of reference for studies of: (i)
major constraints to DFI (para. 104); (ii) major constraints
to technology development (para. 110); (iii) factors
impairing labor mobility (para. 113); (iv) major constraints
to the competitiveness of the pharmaceutical industry and on
establishing adequate health standards and procedures and an
efficient pricing policy (para. 58); (v) major constraints on
the international competitiveness of the automotive and
microcomputer industries and on the safety and environmental
standard regulations for the automotive industry (para. 55



- 40 -
and 63); (vi) adequacy of the unfair trade practice
regulations (para. 77), (vii) the introduction of an auction
system for allocating involuntary export quotas and the
elimination of voluntary export quotas (para. 75); and make a
comprehensive assessment of the regulatory environment for
trucking services (para. 118).
133.     Conditions for Loan effectiveness are (i) substantial progress in
obtaining adequate financing to meet Mexico's 1989-90 requirements (para.
119), and (ii) that NAFIN shall have entered into contractual arrangements
with the Government that are satisfactory to the Bank, for re-lending the
proceeds of the loan. The second tranche would be released after November
30, 1989, after an exchange of views with the Government and confirmation
that the conditions for second tranche release have been met. To this end,
the Bank would need to be satisfied that (A) continued substantial progress
has been made in obtaining adequate financing for 1989-90 and over the
medium term, in the context of the adjustment program and growth targets
set forth in Mexico's economic strategy issued by SHCP, and (B) that:
1.   satisfactory progress had been made in implementing each of
the plans of action under the reform program referred to in
para. 132;
2.   Studies of DFI, technology development, labor mobility,
unfair trade practices, auctioning of involuntary export
quotas, elimination of voluntary export quotas, the
automotive, the microcomputer, and the pharmaceutical
industries studies, and on the appropriate regulatory
framework for the trucking sector, had been completed and
agreement reached on action plans for implementing the
studies recommendations (para. 132); and
3.   The Government's macroeconomic framework (FSL, Annex VIII) is
consistent with the program.
G.       Monitoring and Reporting
134.     Assessing the effectiveness of industrial deregulation and of
other actions to be taken under the proposed loan, will require monitoring
of the adequacy and consistency of the macroeconomic framework and of the
implementation of specific actions under the program detailed in the
Government's Letter of Industrial Sector Policy. SHCP, which would be
responsible for coordination of project implementation, would maintain
regular contacts with Bank staff. NAFIN, as the Borrower, would prepare
quarterly reports on the implementation of the program. The Bank will also
monitor these matters through regular supervision and exchanges of views
with the Government.
H.       Poverty Impact
135.     The alleviation of poverty in the short term could be best tackled
directly through well-targeted programs to provide social services and job
training, rather than indirectly through interventions in the factor and
goods markets. Nevertheless, changes in levels of employment are one way
of looking at the effect of industrial reform on the poverty of the



- 41 -
affected population. Although there is very little evidence in other
countries that opening of the economy adversely affects employment, the
transition to a more market-oriented economy may be aggravating the
situation of some of the poor in the shorter term, particularly in
connection with Mexico's recent macroeconomic adjustment measures.
However, the reduction in protection of capital-intensive activities is
likely to stimulate the demand for labor. Furthermore, the relaxation of
government intervention in factor and goods markets can be expected to
stimulate economic activity in general. Hence, the longer-term effect on
employment, and therefore on the poverty status of the population, is
likely to be beneficial.
I.       Benefits and Risks
136.     Benefits.  Reforms to deregulate industrial activity are an
essential complement to the ongoing trade reform and are expected to
greatly facilitate the response of industrial firms to the new incentive
structure introduced by the trade reform. The adjustment by firms is
expected to increase their levels of efficiency and expand their share of
domestic and external trade. This should make a significant contribution
to the recovery of sustained growth and of Mexico's creditworthiness. The
program would help to reorient production from less efficient import-
substitution industry toward more competitive export markets and production
for the domestic market based on competitive goods and factor markets, and
a more attractive environment for invesiment and technology trancfer. The
program would foster market flexibility, promote non-distorted markets,
improve factor mobility, reduce the costs of doing business and improve key
services to industry. Furthermore, the proposed ISPL, combined with the
proposed two parallel operations (the FSL and PERL) constitute a
comprehensive program of support for overall economic restructuring in
Mexico.
137.     Risks.  The main risk is possible political resistance to carrying
out the reforms at the speed envisaged. There is also a risk that the
macroeconomic objectives of the stabilization and growth may be undermined
if expected foreign financing does not materialize. The Government's
program and the design of the proposed loan contain elements that should
significantly reduce these risks.
138.     A serious risk concerns the political feasibility of carrying out
the reforms on a timely basis. For example, the deregulation of the Sector
Programs, DFI and trucking could face stiff opposition from vested
interests, and thit opposition could lead to deceleration of the reform
program. The Government will need to make a concerted effort to obtain the
support of the private and labor sectors and to demonstrate to those
affected that the ultimate benefits of the proposed program clearly
outweigh the costs and that benefits and costs are fairly distributed.
These considerations were taken into account in the plans of action to
implement the reform proposals.
139.     A major risk of the program could also be that the macroeconomic
policy framework might not continue to be consistent with the program of
industrial sector policy restructuring. For example, a sharp appreciation
of the real exchange rate could potentially derail the current strong
export drive and cause balance of payments difficulties. A failure to



- 42 -
reduce public sector borrowing requirements could adversely affect efforts
to control domestic inflation and to reduce high real interest rates, which
would reduce private investment and growth and undermine private sector
confidence, crucial to successful adjustment. This could in turn undermine
and even reverse trade liberalization and weaken support for the
deregulation program.
140.     A lesser risk is that, as the industrial adjustment process
deepens, dislocations in inefficient import competing sectors will be
inevitable, which could also undermine trade liberalization and the
deregulation program. However, complementary actions under the FSL and
PERL, as well as support to enterprises under the recently approved
Industrial Restructuring Project, which would facilitate resource
reallocation in the economy, should reduce this risk. Moreover, the
encouraging performance of non-oil exports is reinforcing the Government's
resolve to continue with the present reforms.
141.     A possible risk could be adverse external developments which could
include a decline in oil prices or higher international interest rates as
well as increased protectionism in Mexico's export markets. However,
Mexico's accession to GATT and recent bilateral trade agreements enable it
to address possible protectionist tendencies in its foreign markets from a
stronger negotiating position, and Mexico's adequate level of international
reserves and expected continuing access to bilateral and international
financing should provide sufficient financial support to insure continuity
of the economic recovery program. Conversely, an increase in the oil price
and an improved balance of payments perfo mance could also reduce the need
for external financing and could make it more difficult to adhere to a
consistent macro policy framework and s' uctural reforms.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
AND GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
Bank Operations
142.     As of March 31, 1989, Mexico had received 111 loans from the Bank,
amounting to US$11.5 billion, net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 75 loans, totalling US$5.5 billion, were fully disbursed and US$2.4
billion remained undisbursed. The Bank's exposure was US$5.89 billion (on
book value basis) (Annex II), while on a cash basis this is equivalent to
US$7.4 billion. Some 292 of Bank lending has been for agriculture and
rural development, 182 for industry, 14t for transportation, 62 for power,
and 17Z for policy-based lending; the remaining 162 has been for water
supply, tourism, urban development, and vocational training. Commitments
for new loans reached US$1.7 billion in FY87 and US$2 billion in FY88. For
FY89-90, the annual amount of Bank lending commitments, subject to the
successful consolidation of agreed reforms, is expected to be about US$2.0
billion.
143.     Currently, the Bank has 36 operations under supervision.  Nine of
these projects are in agriculture, 11 in trade, industry and finance, 12 in
infrastructure (including transportation, urban, and water sectors and one
earthquake emergency reconstruction operation), two in education. and two
in low income housing. Project implementation, on the whole, has been



- 43 -
satisfactory. Bank disbursements reached US$1.22 billion in FY87 and
US$1.0 billion in FY88.
Government Development Objectives
144.     The Government's overriding objective for the current Sexenio is
the restoration of growth after six years of fll1ing per capita income.
But the experience of the past six years has made it clear that without
macroeconomic stability and access to external financing, sustainable
growth will remain out of reach; thus the Government considers the success
of the stabilization effort and a resolution of the debt overhang problem
as prerequisites for any success towards renewed growth. Moreover,
increased growth will have to go together with increasing living standards
for the poorer segments in society, both in its own right and to maintain
the consensus underlying the Government's program. To this end the
Government has embarked on a significant expansion in policies oriented
towards poverty alleviation.
145.     In addition, the Government strongly feels that growth should be
rrivate sector based, with the Government providing a supporting role.
Thus the Government intends to continue its reform program towards a
modern, rationalized incentive structure for the private sector. This will
reduce the need for government intervention, improve private sector
resource allocation and provide full support for efficient private sector
investment by foreigners and domestic entrepreneurs alike. To allow the
public sector to play a supportive role towards private sector based
growth, the Govornment intends to modernize the machinery of the state and
focus its role on legitimate public sector functions. This involves
continued privatization/modernization where called for, and improvement of
the efficiency of the remaining parts of the public sector.
146.     With these in mind, the Government has adopted a policy agenda,
consisting of the implementation of macroeconomic policies that are
consistent with the objectives of the recovery of growth, increased fiscal
efforts, improved efficiency of the financial system, reduction of interest
subsidies and strengthened prudential regulation. To improve the
efficiency of public enterprises (PEs), and to reduce the heavy burden they
impose on the economy, the Government is focusing on: (i) *disengagement"
of enterprises, including privatization, liquidation, mergers, and transfer
of PEs to local governments and (ii) a program of reforms in the policy
and institutional environment to improve the efficiency of PEs which would
be retained by the Government. These measures will improve the competitive
environment and provide greater managerial and financial autonomy and
accountability to PEs, increase market forces, decentralize decision
making, strengthen managerial capabilities and incentives and improve the
allocation of resources. To help complete the transformation of Mexico's
industrial sector from its inward-oriented and highly protected structure
to an open system where the factors of production and services compete
freely, the Government is undertaking a broad deregulation effort. This is
designed to provide, at the same time, for technological change and
modernization, so as to ensure an adequate supply response to new policies.
147.     Provided the Government is able to resolve these intertwined
stabilization, debt, growth, and efficiency issues, maintains satisfactory
progress in advancing the major structural adjustment policies already



- 44 -
described, and benefits from a reasonably favorable international
environment, the fundamentals for sustained rapid growth look promising.
First, Mexico has a rich natural and human resource base and close
proximity to the world's largest market. Secondly, the rationalization of
the trade regime has created incentives strongly favoring international
competitiveness and improved investment efficiency. Lastly, low Mexican
unit labor costs make the country attractive as an industrial base. The
Bank's base case macroeconomic scenario shows that with moderately
favorable external conditions and consistent macro policies and deeper
adjustment efforts, GDP growth would climb slowly from about 2? p.a. in
1989 to about 5Z p.a. by 1994. The realization of this scenario is
contingent on foreign financing. If this financing were not available, or
if Mexico's external conditions were to deteriorate, output growth would
slow down and employment opportunities would not keep pace with population
growth. Mounting social pressures, in that case, would make it very
difficult for the Government to stay the course and the efficiency gains of
structural reforms may be lost. An under-financed adjustment program would
simply compromise Mexico's ability to service even its current debt.
148.     Given the fiscal crunch under which Mexico's policy makers must
operate, more effective programs are necessary in the social sectors,
including health, education, and nutrition, which are designed to target
resources and cushion the needy against the impact of adjustment, while
permitting the benefits of structural reform to be reaped. Therefore, the
new Administration has, in December 1988, unveiled the "National Solidarity
Program' to address the worst manifestations of poverty in the ten poorest
states of the Union and the urban poor in Mexico City and all state
capitals. Of the total of approximately US$400 million set aside for 1989,
20Z will be allocated to agriculture, 30? to infrastructure, and 50? on
social services.
149.     Historically, ecological and natural resource management issues
have ranked low on the list of Mexican policy priorities. However, over
recent years extremely serious environmental problems have been affecting
the health of most Mexicans and the country's economic growth potential.
The worst problems have been encountered in air and water pollution, soil
erosion and deforestation. These and other issues in Mexico's management
of its ecology and natural resources have received increasing Governmental
attention and the Government is now committed to put in place a strategy
that can deal with these issues effectively over the medium and long term.
Bank Strategy
150.     The Bank's assistance strategy is designed to support Mexico's
major reform initiatives through an expanded policy dialogue and
substantial volumes of lending, thus contributing to the consolidation of
an outward-oriented development model and serving as a catalyst for
mobilizing external finance in the required amounts for the restoration of
the growth of the economy.
151.     The Bank has transferred increasing amounts of resources to Mexico
through policy-based and sector adjustment loans in the context of an
adjuistment-oriented framework that was supported by the 1986-87 commercial
financing package; it has become Mexico's largest single source of new
money. Six Bank loans in trade, exports, agriculture, and industry were



- 45 -
linked to the multi-facility financing scheme, providing drawdown
conditions for the parallel money and growth facilities which were
mobilized fully in March 1988. The Bank also put up guarantees of US$750
million. In addition, the Bank facilitated Mexico's efforts to issue of
securitized bonds for retiring old debt in January 1988. The Bank's
strategy supported primarily policies designed to open the economy.
152.     The-objectives of the Bank's strategy are to engage the Mexican
Administration in a wide-ranging dialogue on macroeconomic measures
required to complete stabilization and spur growth, and on efficiency
issues across the board, including finance, industry and agriculture, and
to help tackle problems of structural poverty and alleviate the social cost
of the adjustment process. The Bank has taken a staged approach in its
support of the initiatives of the Government. As a first step, the Bank
conducted an overview of Mexico's adjustment priorities and, jointly with
the Government, agreed on the conditionality of three adjustment operations
(ISPL, FSL and PERL). The policy content of these three operations
provides the central element in the Bank's support for Mexico in 1989.
153.     To provide the intellectual underpinnings for a continued
dialogue, the Bank is carrying out jointly with the Government an expanded
program of economic and sector work, including (a) a review of the current
regulatory and financing framework in industry and agriculture; (b) a study
of future tax reform options; tc) an intensive analysis of urban air
pollution in collaboration with the World Health Organization; (d) an
assessment of infrastructure and energy sector issues; (e) the development
of strategies for integrated health and nutrition initiatives; (f) an
assessment of improved programs to ameliorate rural poverty; and (g) an
analysis of environmental issues to come up with a set of recommendations.
This collaborative effort is also expected to help keep in place a robust
lending program in 1990 and beyond, designed to support priority reform
measures and optimize resource flows. In this context, the semi-annual
country strategic and implementation review between the Bank and the
Government -- introduced in 1985 -- affords the Bank a timely opportunity
to make adjustments in the existing portfolio to adapt to new conditions.
Agriculture
154.     Because of longstanding structural problems in agriculture and the
sector's crucial imDortance for the one-third of the country's population
living in rural areas, agriculture has been the leading sector for Bank
lending. The Bank's lending program in agriculture is aimed at: (a)
helping correct the incentives regime in agriculture through gradually
reductions in input subsidies and export controls; (b) promoting more
efficient and rationale use of natural resources supported by improved
technologies and services; (c) generating employment-intensive investments
in rural areas and effective assistance to small farmers; and (d) creating
an integral framework for sound rural development. To support these goals,
the Bank made a US$300 million Agriculture Sector Loan during FY88, and,
starting in FY90, expects to support policy adjustment in agriculture,
rehabilitation of the irrigation infrastructure, including improved cost
recovery and maintenance operations, investments for agricultural marketing
and storage facilities, food security, poverty alleviation, and forestry
development.



- 46 -
Trade
155.     The Bank has made two trade policy loans of US$500 million each in
FY87 and FY88 in support of the Government's sweeping trade reforms. The
two operations supported the speedy reduction of non-tariff barriers
(quotas and official reference prices) and rationalization of the tariff
system (reduced levels and dispersion). The Bank supported the development
of non-oil exports through two export development operations in FY83 and
FY87. These export development loans were intended to strengthen the
supply response by Mexican industry to the new trade policy signals. A
third export development loan is under preparation, which would strengthen
the temporary import regime, provide further support to indirect exporters,
assure automatic access to finance by exporters under the various credit
programs, streamline financial and administrative procedures, and seek
further reductions in export controls.
Industry
156.     The Bank's lending strategy for industry, covering small and
medium-scale industry, mining, the capital goods industry, industrial
restructuring and technology development, is designed to support: (a) trade
policy reform; (b) financial sector policies to reverse the prolonged
contraction of savings mobilization through interest rate decontrol and the
development of a wider menu of savings inst_wments, and tue rationalization
of credit allocation in support of viable, competitive private companies;
(c) industrial restructuring, regulatory reform, clarification of foreign
investment rules, and export promotion to assure a vigorous supply response
to trade liberalization and increased international competitiveness.
Recent Bank operations provided support for restructuring of the
fertilizer, steel, automotive parts, textile, and flower sectors, and other
key private industrial subsectors demonstrating a capacity for undertaking
integrated restructuring operations.
Infrastructure
157.     Lending for infrastructure is focussing on regional development,
decentralization, more efficient public investment allocation, and improved
cost recovery. Recent Bank loans supported the highway, railways and port
sub-sectors. Emphasis was placed on obtaining more realistie user fees and
deferring all but the highest-yielding investment projects so as to permit
a minimum of budgetary outlays for maintenance expenditures and protect the
existing capital stock. Proposed loans would support the Government's
decentralization initiatives, cost-based pricing, and managerial improve-
ments. Loans are being prepared to finance the upgrading, rehabilitation,
and maintenance of roads at the state level, the construction of toll roads
cofinanced with the Mexican private sector, the restructuring of several
ports, w4ater supply and sewerage, urban transport, and power.
Housing
158.     Government housing programs designed to improve cost recovery,
while providing transparent and controlled credit subsidies only to the
truly needy, have also benefitted from Bank financing. A Second Housing
Finance loan would support graduated loan cost recovery linked to the



- 47 -
income of final borrowers, thus ensuring a reduced drain on the fisc and
affordability for low-income beneficiaries.
Social Sectors and Environment
159.     The Bank is assisting the Government in redesigning public health,
education, and human resource programs to make them more cost effective and
targeted to meet the needs of the poor. A proposed health project would
support decentralization measures, finance new primary health facilities,
and strengthen professional services. Similar initiatives are being
pursued in education and nutrition. A pilot project under preparation
would improve the well-being of women in rural areas. It includes the
provision of water wells, health and educational services, training for
productive activities, and credit for launching new microenterprises.
These focussed operations would be followed by broader programs, once the
institutional conditions and capacity for project implementation can
support a larger Bank presence.
160.     The Bank is also undertaking jointly with the Government and the
World Health Organization a major review of air pollution issues to
determine how the Bank could best contribute to new Government programs for
cleaning up polluted urban environments. With strong Government
commitment, the Bank would focus on technical assistance operations,
include strengthened environmental components in investment loans, and --
as soon as the policy framework and suitable institutional arrangements are
there -- make loans for sector-wide environmental programs and in support
of remaining environmental policy issues.
IPC Operations
161.     The IFC has worked with the Bank to:  (i) identify private sector
investment opportunities likely to thrive in the current climate of growth-
oriented adjustment and greater integration with the world economy; and
(ii) assist in strengthening the country's capital markets through economic
sector work and venture capital operations. As of March 31, 1989, the IFC
had invested US$990.7 million in 37 companies in Mexico, of which US$690.2
million had been sold, repaid, or cancelled.
PART VI - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF
162.     Bank/IMF collaboration has been close over the years, especially
since 1982, when the Fund began to assist the Government to help address
the underlying causes of the economic crisis. Since that time the
Government benefited from an EFF of SDRS 3.6 billion, a special emergency
drawing of SDRs 291 million after the 1985 earthquake, and a stand-by of
SDRs 1.4 billion. Currently, the Government is committed tn its commercial
creditors under the terms of the 1986 multi-facility financing package to
engage the Fund in an enhanced surveillance of the macroeconomic program.
Since the ending of the stand-by program in 1988, the first such review has
taken place in the beginning of 1989.
163.     Extensive consultations have taken place between Fund and Bank
staff concerning Mexico's current economic situation and prospects,
covering fiscal, monetary, financial and exchange and interest rate



- 48 -
policies, and there is an understanding about the measures that will be
needed to wind down the stabilization program, strengthen the balance of
payments and recover growth in 1989. Since the time of appraisal,
discussions between the Government and the Fund have advanced considerably
about a possible EFF. Currently, it is expected that a three-year facility
would be in place possibly before the scheduled Board date of the proposed
ISPL, but definitely before it would be declared effective. Further
consultations would take place between the two institutions to monitor
macroeconomic performance during the implementation period of the proposed
ISPL.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
164.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attacbments
May 22, 1989
Washington, D.C.



- 49-
ANNEX I
"MC                               4111c - mon  BDCAT                                   Page  1 of  3
Hid-uS  PWIOs..ta(se. 
SW6 Per C.P;IS  PW is VW       am
A. She's. of Gross Dummetic Product                 8.0550biei Per P.M.)
&1668   let9,7008   iwoam    16  190 *I            68-? 1978-0 tlS-Vr  uS?  lISA P/
rom Omtic product s          10.0 S.    W.0  100   10.0  1S0.   SAW.0              6.9    8.3    0.8    1.4    1.1
was ladirot Yese"              4.8    8.0    8.81   8.8   10.4       .              .      .
Iadsetr                      37.1   39.0   U.S    U.S   88.8                      0.8    7.0   40.8    8.0    1.0
W. ublAl lhuufetturiel)      19.7   02.1    0.1   34.0   34.I       .             8.8    5.?    0 0    g.6    9.8
serwiam                      89.1   89.s   89.0   86.8   S8.8       ...9    6.1    0.0    1.0    1.6
bess's. lb Ieonc               -1.9   -1.9   .4.8    4.8    7.11   .38                .      .
b...,s of ines                7.7    6.9   10.7   16.9   19.3   18.               8.3    8.8    7.6   18.8    ?.8
Imts" of am                   9.8    8.    18.0  128.    18.0   14.0              .0.    0.7  40.9    8.8   18 9
v.5.1 aeeediturs.             101.9  201.   U10.8    9.7   98.6   07.7              6.9    8.8   -1.8   -0.8    1.i
Total Cassuut.oe             60.*    9.9   71.1   7.8.   74.2   77.4              8.6    8.8    0.4   -1.8    4.2
Privets cv,sumption,       73.6   71.6   "-.1   67.7   81.6   69.0              8.8    8.5   -01I   -1 e         
Osasrel Government          6.81   8.2   10.0    9.1    6.5    6.4              8.7    7.8    8.3   -1.0
Grace Ossg.t..c tRea.sont    80.8   80.0   87.8   18.8   to.61  80.8              6.4    7.60  -7.0   -4.8    4.8
Fixed IwesImit             17.6   19.2   84.8   17.6   28.9   I8.1a             9.8    7.2   .8.4   -0.8    0 7
Oweas.. insStack.           2.9    0.8    8.4    0.9   -0.8    1.6                .      .
are" COOMsCC kw.ag             18.8   16.1   24 9   03.2   983.6      0 6            .4    65.   -4 5    7 6   4 4
Hint Fots~  IRCc.            .3.6   -4.1   -3.9   43.9    4.0   -4.8                .      .
Hct C.rr..tat ..fera          0.0    0.1    0.1    0.4    0.5    0.8 11.
Orem  btisaael 8a,ia           18.7   14.31   2.1   17.7   81.8   284.11           18.2    7.7   4.0   8387  42 I
In bu;lI ;o, of LCO    ~       to"8   1978           s        " 1960 16  971156P/
(et emmebtas 19600 Priam.)     --       -      -
41.oesfl.e.eti. Prodluct     166    SM9   4470   4738   49    A"6                 8.9    6.2    0.8    1.4    1.1
Cs.stit. to jtwort            116    No0   479    448    48        81t            6.7   18.8  .-3.0    8.6   13 1
7.... of Trod. AUJ.atmwt      .41    -98       0   4318   -89    496.                      .
Orats, Doestic Intome         16o    gm9   4470   440    489    4446              6.9    6.4   40.6   -0.2    1.1
41roes Sbtl.'aI Product      1891   M"6   484    4477   4709   4748               7.7    8.9    0.6    8.3    0.7
Gross, btim'al Incte.        188    1771   48141   4189   4814   4844             7.6    6.8   .0.6    8.7    a 7
(Iw  a 1t)----                 ---1sf lteft joestes11 P.* )-
C. Price liLt..                iw1o   1904   SMo   1on    1167 It" of            19865-73 19781-0 190-67  1S67 190 P
CssrPritee (M0 64)        100.0  879.0) 1071.3 19,94.9 4834.7 9906.1            4.81  80.8   711.0  181.6  114.2
Uwmlem* prig". (Ns5 68)       100.0  M6.0  106.4 1964.4 4M7.9  an.                  4 .0   02.8   78.7  118.,6  106.8
lwiltit MP 2sf tar            10.0  6,14.8o 90  Is"87.81 411S1.8 6am64              8.9   31.8   86.9  148.0  104.0
Illslet mpa,diturss 0.91.    10..0 =.0       M 9 3.1M16.6 446.8      ..            .8   80.9   71.1  184.4
D. SUw,t Ijictstsat          19l5-71 197840 219647
i46r  Por
Ore. 11. S5meme &.t.       4.8    8.4   -9.9
9, ets  ees.Is oswM44   .     3.      5.5   -.8.
IMct Wastlelt,:.
blesta (0.m1) I  p(91)        1.0    1.8  -17.3
bagiseS Ss,lep lber:
eve   w6lowm  34.16632 13.8   16.9
0s Dotmkc b.1ie               VA.    WA.  -40.51
no0 Cw1ed swerea.),              ..      .7   U.0
fters of Total                 sm5   19va      90    167
LalorbPissIS is-                               -
81ricu1lrs                    5.    41.8   W-.8
Iadwustp3.    83.7   69.0
ft"law5.    0.5   86.8
10 .0 10.   0.0



- 50-                                         ANNEXI
o"=cc                                                                                                    Page 2 of 3
603C4 - UPOSIC   ICAI'66
*. Nevelesdiee Eapove             th1960   1964    165   196    396?IS            l1190   1SW4    1W5   SW        W   1MP/
oil                              100.0  161.5  170.9  154.6   84.4  384.4   1"441  16           147      60       63    60
Wbmoesufee                       100.0  169.4  173.7  040.7  194.7         ..    m0      a        95 49"7  1    407   161
046.                             100.0   168.2 1 113.   131.0   WO0 .,1.7        14 "0   1*S O    me   1n    g9    2541
Toal b,w'te Pas                  100.0  178.1  16.5  171.4  9,1.2 106.1  5611  91416   11              Ism   11111   11061
F. br_dmadiee Imots
cas_e_ S""                       100.0    9.2    7.1   19.0    1.5         ..   249    6a    l0w          S"      in    19I
Iftardi.e   ends                100.0   60.5   70.2   6.-$    6.6          ..   10    "1           6t6    6u    a5  1
Capitol S"                       100.0   60.5   70.2    2.6    6.6         ..    174    575   615   14           11    401
Totel         l Po               100.0    0.5   6.0   61.i    3            .4.5  .    2?T. 2  11SM 4  0L2   114S 2M     380
0. Tocm of tied.                  140   114   1965   116         197    1o
tei. boote-  ri. le d.           100.0   90.1    MA.4   60.5  s9.e    5.6
tgreh. Zwoew   Pi.e lads         100.0  116.4  U1.6  117.4  120.0   8.6
Noreh. Term of Tr.d              10.0   76.1   72.0    5.4   7.4    80.2
el aIIlfts (St eun.st Priam):
Pi. b1ala. of Pega to            t10   1464    1165   196    19w  196 5/
11-pert of *d a WU               1un6  of18       624  211    700        19
N.,ghaAiee (FOB)               166   14146  124163   1601   166   961
Wer-t cter Servic               70         0   81      560   6604 g      47
is_e. of Onod & Ws              1664   160o   116    16172  17111  41414
Nghwaade (PFOB)                  M    12sun   1X12 11482   122S  1690
lbstor o rvice                   76   46    518    4740   46   5911
seinsac111ale.                   -_      14076   Ise   5719  10409   4091
U      t   Income                -09  _167  -a0m4  -T68   -75867  -06
(ltreet pep MR)                4591  1N2         9    T778    70"1   66I
WetCsr'et Tr*o fee                 I2    10    622    360    gm           Ws
(ss.Sere reaittZee)               0       0       0       0    So1    45?
co" AxC el before Off. *esf -46    406            8    -m78   S         -17
ats Offalet Trasef,             1a      ml    690    .04
co" A/C S.l after Off. Trosef  -612    440    357  -1669
LW4s-TOre Ctel  sf lew           V9    g12         M0      Ul   455       w7
Dileeo Isoesteet                216    190    491    104         m     196
Wet LT Lo    OM. 4da4e)        a9    1119    -96        69    4217   -661
oter LT Utf oute)              -121     44    -as  -l46    -am    -52f
tOta  Othe  Item (se)              86  _4141  -a6        17l  -U111   -"7
_e  *h_rt TOs captlte           am    -#M    -1M9       694  -67  -660
bsoti  Ftim N.LI.                 0       0       0       0
6.ow   go si bleaI,            470    -104  -16        1067    1U44   -04
_1er I* Wt _merees                -O     410      71   -M        664   77
We1 Crtedlt fem so sU           -6      130    610       9      1       104
_60.  aeew.    aagee    _       a    -MD    on   -61?    an    ur
Am se" of MP:
bas_os. blase,                 -1.1    6.0    8.0    4.4    7.8    3L2
bte.'eet fems _                   .4    8.6    &.1    6.0    6.0    4.5
ba_est   e.t  As ..F            -4.6    3.8    0.6   -1.4    1.?   .1.6
_mo_ee It_s
_ee.,.  "no. brd (elI. OM         a6     11   4m0    67    Mo             M
_meos   see,  id (IlI. UK)    4175   6019 867 a9   6M1  2"M    O
oWflele  1-A4t. (iLb11)          6.45  16.0    6.6   U.7  an-so 60.0o
&Id"  hbat Of.  - Ono 196   1160.0  316.0  11.70  14161.40 2311.40 3.40
P (a Illowmodee "e         ) MM   U766  1704   166  21679  146         173



333  14u  969  66 *  116 WI                        Cw m-.A St O 1-tt'@
..v    w.      ..     ..      ..v    ..         ^oll       _          t
,19  93    41 t         4@    41,O   I0 *4 O  "SO VWv" 9            "0 4 I9
T*o"   of's   9611  sole   or"   we            i3 - t 6  d._-1m 1_W  If
as,"    6a0  mtm   Wut  weIt  Wm                  xi n4   -       9   *I If% It
erz wu "~~~~~- irn a a.g s n 
art    WV   Irv   "Is   4961   we                       do   St@ A--   Is
09*   6696   a,"   96,49   9669W  63*1                d06A1i  0-iw   1
L53  "Ine   "In               wAS,      e Oro.tirn n3.d6.Ll t   <_
311B  3111'10 9'1111 96g AS'"S   "'An                33J3/9tPa  ALSw  Is
*t,11n  alss  1-,1       t   Te ls    ooI ot. AOhaes ma.w  la
@r@    Cl    00 0   000    00   00                      1        so a *s t I
Urs    or      tisos          to's    w;1             I.tt .0 a 0UanS    I
eg9-    mm  vw-   am*  sun    Ma   Dn    un  m  bew   *"-   inn  AS""  I Oa I$ lotI9*"6
nu       0- "  09m-  at S on   WI    Wt                       P -oUS   JIG
14696  "0196  olon   Mtft    MO  3916  n9611Oa   961    1m        .0 1
330901 636101  am0101 1t  30691  0o943  6omit-  CO'1  CO1-   Co o- 40-   CO-O                        1 VS *IS-   l iowa,
ow06   0063   00n   0an6   09          90    gtS   anAS- n*         e1    M-   all-                gS t      4 U d   I
ona3  t911   @39    40011   06         Mm   Lett-   OM9       M-   a0       on5     "a1               1j"R) ""li
Me66   616m    "a1   0193   0013   5319   1135"  469   603    36            610    "a9                      lea"
699~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ 63  35  30  634                                 _t* 001t AS^ 61S P61    83'*d
0953   11639  03896t 1_6   1156f 06   01   n0              961n-   1u   663  JS3                    V t'iPUl UStt
O      a       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0                  v0W Ne p
ABU    9re    Om    "r a           91       O   Ot-w             200    Om   fZ OM- Pt" 
9M   36    913391      09   n3o5    me   o                  on     GU01o ao 10a t5  1                    0      P"ls
am46   0990   334               a      o"11          "Al6   gm6on1399U6941     0941 41 65 6  6       UFJ  I*18't**
MN11   IAA     1606   11411  51363   mu61   an6      "a0   Got1   too    61   Gm1              Li  -V9 &sv' $VWq'e9 *!si
mlit 640       036    Mt   9I6         66   /L Mt tat           t 01  t1    9f16    0661   * n 96 Le6 89 14U  Pon5
(-wIs*U30PSJISG   iP'9                           (-II to~ ml) IUWS.b*qSS  196
'ns-       '   e1'-   t1-   Ole-       1-li"
9'S-  nnS- Rt'S    91.   frt-   0 't-t - 91
on~91               e           o          '6 69    Ie't   I'M    196   en                       USdm  .S13i 16585
a'S- o9 o06 o06 O06 O'13 O'M 6O3                                                          98O Ole    il    Ol  8
*s swU S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                       I.              tv nt "*atP 
t ot aw sso C"> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~rt                                   Oe                            O-Au &Vo gb^
Z"~~~VtS   Olt eL S1                                             rn    r=    vsnsUtaW                         vue eme
/4 _t et o       t                                   n o                                                           nb _t otvnetat/d n el etofnetft at e " e^*~*
- -    J   - JTS -
351  I06        s         I         t -     531  496    366    196    91   01              89*1 'I84 _PeWP  U
155910  3Dt    t- 00II           t- O -                              -
''$t*F*t*O Oz    *S_"P_J                                                                                    91e1
*- I&          *-*-*                                    t 1t



- 52 -
Annex II
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR POLICY LOAN                                          Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF DANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
A. Stetement of Dank Loans
(As of March 31, 1989)
(USS milion)
Fiscal                                                  Amount le"s         Undis-
Loan No.     Year        Borrower               Purpose              Cancellations      bursed
75 loans fully disbursed                                    5,462.00
1706-5       1979    NAFIN              :rrigotion                         81.80         16.14
18S8-C       1980    NAFIN              Irrigation                         64.40         15.16
1990         1981    BANOBRAS           Urban Development II              144.16         10.01
2043         1982    NAFIN              Integrated Rurfl Dev.             176.00          8.07
2142         1982    NAFIN              Capital Ooods Industry            152.30          0.40
2154         1982    NAFIN              Pollution Control                  13.09          4.40
2202         1983    NAFIN              Agricultural Marketing            115.00         12.21
2281         1983    BANOBRAS           Third Water Supply                100.30         80.34
232S         1983    NAFIN              Third Sm/Med Industry             175.00          1.34
2331         1983    BANCOMEXT          Export Development                350.00          4.22
2428         1984    SANOBRAS           Highways                          200.00         8S.00
2450         1984    BANPESCA           Ports                              56.30         39.22
2626         198S    NAFIN              Chimp s Agric. Dev.                68.00         42.83
2546         1986    NAFIN              Sm/Ued Scale Mining II            106.00         39.12
25S9         198S    NAFIN              Vocational Education               81.00         23.90
2575         1985   BSANORAS            Railways V                        300.00        17.834
2612         1986    8AN0ORAS           Low Income Housing I              150.00         28.07
2658         1986    NAFIN              Proderith II                       88.30         71.20
2665         1986    DANOBRAS           Earthquake Rehab                  400.00         38.S5
2666         1986    eANOBRAS           Municipal Strengthening            40.00         36.62
2669         1986    BANODRAS           Solid Waste Pilot                  26.00         19.68
2745         1987    DANCOMEXT          Trade Policy Loan I               500.00         10.69
2746         1987    NAFIN              Industrial Recovery               150.00         S6.33
2747         1987    NAFIN              Technology Development             48.00         34.67
2777         1987    BANCOMEXT          Export Development II             260.00         38.16
2824         1987    BANO0RAS           Urban Transport                   125.00        101.12
2837         1987    NAFIN              Agricultural Credit               400.00         S1.5S
28S8  3/     1987    NAFIN              Sm/Med Industries IV              100.00        100.00
2869         1987    NAFIN              Agricultural Extension             20.00         16.95
2675         1987    BANOBRAS           Highway Maintenance               136.00        125.00
2876         1988    NAFIN              Manpower Training                  80.00         63.68
2916         1988    NAFIN              Steel Sector Restruct.            400.00        342.63
2918         1988    NAFIN              Agrieltural Sector Loan          300.00        201.99
2919  3/     1988    NAFIN              Fertilizer Seetor Loan            265.00        266.00
2946  3/     1988    DANOBRAS           Ports Rehabilitation               60.00         60.00
2947  8/     1988    DANOBRAS           Housing Finance                   300.00        300.00
Totel                                            11,4S9.66
Of which has been repaid                          3,112.85
____________
Total now outstanding                             8,346.80
Amount sold                92.34
Of which hns been repald:  92.34                      0.00
Total now held by Dank  2/                        8,346.80
Total und;sbursed                                               2,449.18
1/  The status of the projects listed in Part A Is in a separate
report on all Dank/IDA financed projects in execution, which
Is updated twice yearly and circuloted to the Executive Directors
on April 30 and October 81.
2/ Prlor to exchange adjustment.
8/ Not yet effective.  -



- 53 -
Annex II
INDUSTRILa  SECTOR POLICY LOAN                          Page 2 of 2
MEXICO
B. Statement of IFC Investments
As March 31, 1989
(USS Mi lionI
Fiscal                                                                    -----Originsl Approval*--------
Year          Obligor                         Type of Business               Loan      Equity      Total
1968/69        Industrial Perfect
Circle, S.A.  */             Industrial Equipment          0.80         0.00       0.80
1958           Bristol de Mexico, S,A.   */    A.C. Engine Overhal            0.50        0.00       0.60
1961           Aceros Solar, S.A.  o/          Twist Drills                   0.30        0.00       0.30
1982/6/6/8     Fundidora Monterrey, S.A.  */   Stoel                          2.30       21.40      23.70
1983           Tubos do Acero do Mexico        Stainless Steel Pipes          0.90        0.10       1.00
1983           Qulmice del Roy, S.A.  a/       Sodium Sulphate                0.70        0.00       0.70
1964/6         Industris del Hierro, S.A.      Conutruction Equipment         0.00        2.00       2.00
1970           Miners del Norte   */           Iron Ore Mining                1.60        0.00       1.50
1971           Colanes Mexicans, S.A.  a/      Textiles                      12.00        0.00      12.00
1972           Promotore Papel Periodicos,
S.A. d  C.V.    /            Pulp and Paper                0.00           b/         b/
1973/9         Cementos Veracruz, S.A.         Cement                        15.90        0.00      16.90
1974/81        Csncun Aristos Hotel            Tourism                        1.00        0.30       1.30
1976/78        Mexinox, S. A.                  Stainless Steel               12.00        8.20      16.20
1978/81/84     Papeles Ponderosn, S.A.         Pulp and Paper                10.70        6.00      16.70
1976           Tereftelatos Mexicanos, S.A.    Petrochemicel                 19.00        0.00      19.00
1979/81/87     Hotel Camino Real Ixtaps, S.A.  Tourism                        0.00        4.20       4.20
1979/84        Empresss Toltece, S.A.          Cement                       168.00        7.90     176.90
1979           Conductores Monterray, S.A.     Electrical Wire & Cable       18.00        0.00      18.00
1980           Industriss Resistol, S.A.       Particle Board                25.00        0.00      26.00
1980           Vidrio Plnno de Mexico, S.A.   Flat Class                    114.90        0.00     114.90
1980           Miners Real de Angeles, S.A.   Mining                        110.00        0.00     110.00
981/86         Celuloslcos Centouro, S.A.      Pulp and Paper                59.50        0.00      59.60
1981           Corporacion Agro-
industrial S.A               Agri-Business                11.30        3.00       14.30
1984           Capital Goods Facility  */      Capital Goods Finoneing      100.00        0.00     100.00
1984/88        Metals*, S. A.                  Auto Chosis                    8.00        1.40       9.40
1985           Proteison, S.A. de C.V.         Agri-Business                  2.00        0.80       2.80
1986           Promociones Industrioles
Mexieenos, S.A. do C.V.      Petrochomicl                 16.40        0.00      16.40
1988           Celuloso y Popel do Ourungo,
S.A. de C.V.                 Pulp and Paper                10.00        3.10      13.10
1987           Agromex Phase I (AESA)          Veg and Fruit Processing       1.60        0.60       2.00
1987           Industries Sulfex,
S.A. do C.V.                 Chemicel A Petrochemical       2.00        0.60       2.50
1988           Sealed Power do Mexico          Auto Assembly                  9.00        0.00       9.00
1988           Spasco, S.A. de C.V.            Cement                        46.00        0.00      46.00
1988           Selumi, S.A. de C.V.            Food and Food Processing      20.10        2.00      22.10
1988           Crescent Market Aggregates      Construction Material         37.00        0.00      37.00
1989           Crupo Femsil Vlis               Consumer Goods Conglsmorot   80.00         0.00      80.00
1989           Serfin                          Development Finance           60.00        0.00      80.00
1989           Polimar (ABS)                   Petrochemicol                 14.60        0.00      14.60
Gross Total Commitments                                      990.80      65.40    1048.20
Less Cancellations, lerminstions,
Repayments and Sales                                     690.20        28.40     718.60
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                            300.60       27.00     327.60
t=- G_-=
Total Undisbursed (Including Participants)                    78.60        0.10      76.70
*/ Investments which hsve been fully cancelled, terminated,
written off, sold, or repaid.
b/ US 26,000.



- 54                            ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR POLICY LOAN
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section Is    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the loans          1 month
(b) Appraisal Mission:                                      Oct.lNov. 1988
tc) Completion of Negotiationss                              April 1989
(4) Planned date of effectivenesss                          July 1989
Section II,    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III.   Special Conditions
(A)      The following are conditions met since appraisals
(i)    Publication of the Reglamento to the DFI law (para.101);
Cii)    Harmonization of the tax systems concerning profit remittance
(para. 99)s
(iii)    Reduction of the vitholding tax for royalties payments (para.
107);
(iv)    Deregulation of interest rates to industry (para. 104);
'v)    Agreement on satisfactory action plans to:
(a)  promote direct foreign investment (para. 95);
(b)  promote technology development (para. 110);
(c)  deregulate Sector Programs in the automotive (para. 54),
petrochemical (para. 62), pharmaceutical (para. 58), and
microcomputer (para. 63) sectors;
(d)  improve trade regime (para. 71 and 77); and
(e)  achieve administrative simplification of bureacratic
procedures (para. 89);
(vi) Agreement on terms of reference for the following studies:
(a)  on the major constraints to DFI (para. 104);
(b)  on the major constraints to technology development
(para. 110);
(c)  on the factors impairing inter-industry labor mobility
(para. 113);
(d)  on the international competitiveness of the automotive
Industry and on safety and environmental standard
regulations (para. 55);



- 55 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) on establishing appropriate health standards and
procedures and a sound pricing policy for the
pharmaceutical sector (para. 58);
(f) on the international competitiveness of the micro-
computer industry (para. 63);
(g) on eliminating voluntary export quotas and introducing
an auction system for the allocation of involuntary
export quotas (para. 75);
(h) on reviewing unfair trade practice regulations (para.
77); and
li) on making a comprehensive assessment of the :egulatory
environment for trucking services (para. 118).
(vii)    Announce statement on trade, interest rates and fiscal
incentive policies (para. 68, 95 and 94).
(B)      The following are conditions for Loan effectiveness:
(i) Substantial progress in obtaining adequate financing to
meet Mexico's 1989-90 requirements (para. 119); and
(ii) NAPIN shall have entered into contractual arrangements
with the Government which are satisfactory to the Bank,
for re-lending the proceeds of the loan (para. 133 4
(C)      The following are conditions of Second Tranche releases
(i)   Continued substantial progress in obtaining adequate
financing to meet Mexico's 1989-90 requirements and
over the medium term (para. 119);
(ii)   Satisfactory progress had been made in implementing
each of the plans of action and studies indicated in
para. 132 (para. 133);
(iii)  Completion of the studies mentioned in para. 132 above,
and agreement on a plan of action for implementing the
recommendations of the studies (para. 133); and
(iv)   The Government's macroeconomic framework (FSL, Annex
VIII) is consistent with the program (para. 133).



Annex IV
- 56 -                          Page 1 of 4
$At
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT
Mexico, D. F., May 12 ,1989
SECRETA3A
DE
HACENDA YCRO pIUCO
MR. BARBER B. CONABLE
PRESIDENT
WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C.
1. This letter describes the Government of Mexico's program to modernize
the industrial sector. This program aims at removing market distortions,
and at providing an appropriate institutional and regulatory environment to
enable industrial enterprises to meet the challenge of a more competitive
world economy and thereby stimulate productive investment and growth.
2.   Increasing manufactured exports offers a promising path towards a
renewed industrial growth.   In 1985, the Government of Mexico began to
implement a number of far reaching policy changes designed to liberalize
the economy, to reduce unjustified subsidies, and to remove distortions
which had impaired the international competitiveness of the industrial
sector.
3.   The Government of Mexico has taken other important steps to reform its
industrial sector. A new Government procurement law has been introduced.
The regulatory framework for foreign investment is being simplified and
made more flexible to stimulate direct foreign investment (DFI). Actions
taken in specific subsectors include: an increased patent protection; the
lowering of domestic content requirements (DCRs) for exports in the
automotive sector; and the elimination of most quantitative restrictions
(QRs) for imports of autoparts, microcomputer components and secundary
chemicals.   Additionally, private petrochemical firms have been given
freedom to import inputs and to produce a larger number of final products,
while energy subsidies have been eliminated. CEPROFI (fiscal promotion
certificates) Incentives have been eliminated from most industrial
activities.   In addition, interest rate subsidies to industry have been
virtually eliminated and market-oriented interest rates have been
adopted by financial instituions. In transport, trucking movements across
the U.S. Border have been liberalized for the in-bond industry, and
limitation on the shipment of goods by containers has been reduced.



-57-                             Annex IV
6.N.1                                                                    Page 2 of 4
SECRETARIA
DE
ACIENIOATUCREDO PULICO
TMM POLICY AGENDA.
4.   After the remarkable progress in the area of trade liberalization, the
Government of Mexico recognizes that the resumption of growth will require,
among other things, an increased private investment (domestic and foreign)
in the industrial sector. Reforming the regulatory framework to foster
efficiency and stimulate technological development will be one of the means
to attain this objective.   This is consistent with our overall policy
agenda, which has focussed on consolidating the stabilization achieved
under the "Pactos", completing and consolidating the trade reform,
proceeding with the deregulation of domestic policies which effectively
inhibit competition, and thus gradually resuming a sustainable growth
process.
5 w ACTION PROGRAM.
5.   The Government of Mexico is committed to Implement a program of
reforms aimed at modernizing the industrial sector. The program includes
stimulating DFI, promoting new technology, rationalizing the sectoral
approach to industrial develoment and simplifying the administrative
procedures.
6.  The sectorial programs (programas de fomento) have served a useful
purpose in the past, stimulating investment and export growth in certain
subsectors.  However, the protection granted to these subsectors and the
related economic and fiscal costs are no longer justified. A new strategy
is being defined in consultation with the industry representatives, and
taking into consideration existing conttactual arrangements.   The new
strategy willl create a more competitive and dynamic environment for
industry.
7.   To a certain extent, industrial development has been hampered by some
administrative barriers, which have made entry difficult and imposed a
substantial artiflcal cost to doing business. In order to solve this issue
the Government of Mexico has established a task force and an action program
for administrative simplification.



Annex IV
- 58 -                          Page 3 of 4
SAl
SECRETMIA
DE
MIIACCUAYCREDITO PUUCO
8.   Regarding fiscal incentives to industry, the CEPROFI is being limited
to micro and small scale enterprises and used only on an exceptional basis.
The Government of Mexico is commited to continue with the current interest
rate policy and to increase credit allocation to the industrial sector.
9.   The Government of Mexico is interested in stimulating additional
direct foreign investment.   To that end, it has made more flexible the
existing regulations and procedures. The new guidelines give transparency
and automaticity to the system and eliminate the requirement of case by
case aproval in the vast majority of cases.
10. In the context of an increasing internationalization of the world
economy, development of, and access to appropriate tecnhnology is becoming
more significant as an element of industrial policy.
11. Regulations on the transfer of technology will be made less
restrictive and measures will be taken to adequately protect investors and
technology suppliers. On the institutional side, actions will be taken to
effectively link R&D efforts by the public research infrastructure to the
demands of mexican industrial development.   Technical assistance and
information services will be upgraded to help promote the diffusion and
assimilation of technology.
12. A substantial improvements will be made concerning transportation
services. This is of crucial importance to modernize industry.
13. The fulfillment of the objetives of the proposed industrial strategy
requires a complementary trade policy.
14. The Government is convinced of the benefits derived from international
competition. Therefore, trade liberalization measures will be maintained
and no major changes in tariff structure are foreseen over the medium term.
15.  The mexican Government states   that anti-dumping procedures and
countervailing duties should not be used as means of disguising protection
but as a mean to defend our. economy from dumping and unfair trade practices.



Annex IV
- 59 -                            Page 4 of 4
0.11.1
SECRETARIA
DE
16. For each action concerning the sectoral programs, trade and transfer
of technology, the Government of Mexico states that the scope and timing of
the plans of actions discussed above may be affected according to the
results of international negotiations. The Government of Mexico will
intensify the process of negotiations and proposes to establish a mechanism
for consultation with the World Bank to evaluate the progress of the
negotiations b*Qe4 on market access.
PEDRO ASPE ARMELLA
MINISTER OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT



AR v
Pae 1 of 18
INRIAL SECTOR POLICY LOAN
POLICY MATRIX
OJECTMES             ACTIONS ALDY TAKEN                          ACTIONS TO BE TAKN                                TIMItN
I.  Impro  Factor
Mohilit.V
(a) Direct Foreign     Eltlination of deductibility of            Iplemnt th. agree  upon action plan to promto DFI
Innvestmnt         dividends and of the withholding tax on   lncluding:
remittane  to foroign compenlee
In acordnce         begInnlng In 198R.                        (1) lmplmenwtatlon of a coopreWWI ve DFI promotion
with the Law of                                               proram, to position Mexico a a country with
Foreign             Publlcation of the Reglams_to of the      significant and Important coparative advantages, nd
Investment,         DFI law containing the following          willing to compete in the International morkot for
liberall and      measures:                                  capitol;
incrnea
trnenperency and    tl) allows utomatic IOOX D1               (11) elaborating periodically *nd making widely
automaticity tn     partielpation in activities comprisng    avallablo up-to-date infornation on the national
DFI registration   SOX of CDP, requirlng only the             econmy *nd on concrete Investment opportunities; and
and                 regibtration of the lnvestmnt with the
authorization       CNIE.  Thle proedure will be applled      (llt) establishing a data bank on Investment
proe                Iit agreed upon minimum requirement.      opportunities and on spectfle project with co-
concerning exports, regional              investmnt possibilities for SECOFI's Subeecretarla de
development, technoloy and Investment    Industris * Inversion Extranjera to tunetion as a
*sI   are met;                            catalyst for co-investment.



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 13
OBJECTIVES           ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                       ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                               TIMING
(it)  *llows increased participetion of   Satisfactory progress In Implementatlon of plan of        Before Second
the privato sector (domestic end          action.                                                   Tranch. Release.
foreign) In areas subject to specific
regimes;                                  Submit Terms of reforence for a study to further
promote and liberalize DFI.
(tit) lnereoaSe transparency and speed
of CNIE decision making by:               Complote the study and agree on a plan for its
implcme"ntton.
- issuing concise and transparent
repulations on CNIE's criteria to
authorize DFI, and
- incroesing decision making scope of
CNIE's Executive Secretary
establishing automatic approval of his
Resolutions after 30 daysa*nd N
(iv) simplify and deregulate
registration procoduren (INIE) bys
- lncroesing tho time period to comply
with registration rquiremnts,
- oliminating 406 ot the procedures
required to reistor DFI In order to
reduce the time olapsod between
application, approval and registration
from about 1-1/2 yeare, t preset, to
2 months, and
- estblishing automtic approval of
registration In the RNIE.



ANNEX V
pag. a of Is
OBJCTIVES            ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                       ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                               TIMIN
(b) Technolow
1. Improve access  Beinning In 1989, the withholding tx    Implement the  gree upon plan of action for technology
to foreign       on royalty pymonts was reduced from       development coprising:
technology       Ill to ISX.
1. FacilIltation of the access of firms to new
technology by eliminating excessive rgulations from
the Registry of Technology Transfer by the following
actlons:
(1) oliminate or reduce eonditions for registration
of the contracta referring to the transfer of
tec'.nological knowledge (i.e., prograum of technical
assimilation, suppliers' developmeont, labor training,
export requirements), and Improve transparency for
these contract. by publishing clarly definod criteria
for sotting coeling  on authorized royalty payments;
(II) the registration of contract related to
management services and transaction of computer
program will be eliminated or simplitfid; and
(111) publication of the new reulatory frameork for
technology transfer to achievo the above objectives.
2. Orientation of the activities of SECOFIs
Direccion Oenral de Desarrol lo Tocnologlco towards a
moro activo prootion of technological soderniation
of firms.
8. Coordination of offorts of different entities an
organizations In the public and privnte soetora, which
are Involved with technololcal modernization of
Industries.
Satisfactory proreas In Implementation of plan of         Before Second
action.                                                   Tranche Reloes



ANNEX V
Pag. 4 of 18
OBJECTVES           ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                      ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                              TIMING
2. Promot.                                                  Carry out agreed upon study on mjor problems and
reserch and                                              constraint to technology dbvelopment, including: (1)
development                                              Improving the protection of tndustrial property to
(11D)                                                    motivate technological Innovation within industry and
4ct,ities                                                strengthen property righte; nd (lt) determine the
mrott of cempulsory expenditures on RlD and of
advancing patent protection for chemisls and
pharmachemicals to proote technology.
Cempleto the study and agree on a plan for Its          Before Second
lmplementation to be coordinated by SECOFI with         Tranche Releae.
cooperation frm various Institutions.
(c) Labor                                                       Carry out agroed upon study to identlfy factors
impairing Inter-industry labor mobility.
Increose
Interindustral                                              Complete the study and gree on a plan of action for      Before Second
Mobility of                                                 Ito tmplmantattion.                                      Tranche Reloase 
Labor.
II. Deregulate                                                  Automotive  includina trucks and parts) Sctor.
secoral Programs
Improve                                                  Imple nt the agreed upon action plan to Improvo
Industrial                                               competitiveness, Including:
Eff Iceney
Through Trade
Liberalization
and Industrial
Dereguloion



ANNEX V
Pag. 6 of 18
OBJECTIVES           ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                        ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                                 TIMING
(i) gradual opeting of imports of utomobile, light,
medium and heavy trucks, tractor-tral lor trucks and
buos. The liberalization of new cars (similar to tho
ones domestically produced) and all trucks wuli
proceed In the following stges:
- Initially only vehicle producers will be allowed to
Import, later on othor Importers will be allowd.
- initially only economy cars could be imported while-
care to complemnt domestically produeod lines could
be imported later, and
- QR* will be maintained for luxury care not similar
to the domestically produe d. qRs on cars, trucks and
buse, similar to the domestically produced, will be
gradually reduced to Increase International
competitiveess of dos tic car produe rs;
(ii) gradual reduction of DCRs in the production of
automobiles, light, medium and heavy truckr1 tractor-
traller trucks and buse. In the firt stop to be
takon on the 1991 model, DCRu on automobiloe will be
lowered to SOX and by 10 perentoge points on each
category of trucks and buses. DCRs will be further
reduced In subsequent model years;
(1ii) gradual reduction of DCRs for autoparts,
beginning with a IOX reduction in the 1991 year model.
Liberalization of autoparts imports by gradually
removing the remaining QRs;
(iv) the foreign exchange balance requirements will be
maintained. Depending on the results of the program,
these requirement* will be made more flexible;
(v) elimination of regulations restricting efficient
organization of production of vehicle and autoparts
producers (e.g., car models and lines); and



ANNEX V
Page B of 13
0BJECTIVES           ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                       A:TIONS TO BE TAKEN                               TIMING
(vI) Offieil announcement of tho above program of
Import llberalization and industrial deregulation for
the automotive sector to begin with model yr 1991.
Satisfactory progress In Implementation of plan of        Before Second
action.                                                   Tranche Relas
Carry out agreed upon study of the automotive sector
Including Mexicobs international competitiveness tn
the industry and the regulatory tramework for
environmental and safety standards.
Complete tho study and agree on a plan of action for      Before Second
Its Implementation.                                       Trench* Reles
-Petrochemicals:
TIplmemnt the agred upon actlon plan for the                                  Un
dbvlopment of this sector including:
(1) reduce the numbr of baslc petrochemicals products
to a maximT list of 26. Defiro an Initial lint of
secondary petrochemicals; and
(ii) encourage cooperative arrangemnts between the
private sector and PEMEX.
Sattisfctory progress In implementation of plan of        Before Second
action.                                                   Tranche Rleas



ANNEX V
Pnts 7 of 18
OBJECTIVES           ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                         ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                                TMDING
-Pharesaogutica les
Program ended In Decembor, 198  *nd was    I plement th  agreod upon plan of action lncluding;
not renewed.
(1) cemitment not to ronew this sectoral program
(programs de ram); and
(11) gradbal and concertod elImination of We and
reduction of DCRs for pharmachemicals taking Into
account oxisting contractual arrangements. QR on 16
harmonizd tariff Items will be eliminated, and
further reduction wi *I take place subsequently.
Satisfectory progress In Implemontation of plan of         Before Second
action.                                                    Tranche Releas.
Submit Terms of Reforence for a study: (1) to
determine mothods for a sound pricing policy In tho
pharmaeoutical sector; and (11) to establish
approprate standards and proceodure. In tho sector.
Completo the  study and agre  on a plan for Its            tefore Second
implementation.                                           Tranche Rols



ANNEX V
Page 9 of 13
OBJECTIVES           ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                       ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                               TIMING
- Mterocomputers:
Implement the agree upon plan of *ction Including:
(1) gradual Import liberalization of new computer
starting by allowing import otf specializod hardware
(e.g., Laptop computer, Laser printer.) until
complete oeliintion of qRs Is achievod In 1992.
Oraduol reduction of OCDR in computer production until
comploetly *liminated In 1992, beginning with one-
third of current levels of OCR.;
(11) forelgn exchange balance will be mainained.
Depending on the results of the progras, these
requirement, will be made more flexible; and
(11) the *ctoral program will be phaede out by tho
end of 192. 
Satisfactory progress in lmplementatlon of plan of        Before Second
action.                                                   Tranche Roleas
Carry out agreed upon study on Mexico's international
eompotitiveness ln Micro-computers.
Comploe  the study and agree on a plan for Its            Before Second
lmplementation.                                          Tranche Rel



ANNEX V
page 9 of 2.
OBJECTIES            ACTIONS ALREADY TAEN                *        ACTIONS TO KE TAKEN                                TIMDNG
III Proote Non-
Dito rted
Oood. markets
(a) Trade        Announced a clear statement of Trade
Liberalization   Polley.
Import liconsing eoverage i now 22.8X,
one quarter of what It was tn June
198, official reforeneo pries for
import. have beon completoly abolished
and the maximum toriff 1s now 20% and
the average tariff 18X, espectively
one-fifth and one-half of what tehy
were in June 1985. Progres as of mid-
1988 has gone beyond the Government's
original schdulo, GATT commitmnt., 
and the targets in the TPL II. pR                                                                                         00
coverae is about 19 percentage points
lower than the TL II target, and the
maximum tariff is 10 percentage point.
lower than tho target.
Coverage of QRs on imports of             Impleoent the agreed upon aetion program to reduce qRs
industrial products Including             on import.;
agricultural Inputs (e.g., pesticldes,
irrigation equipment, agricultural (1) by November 1989, reduce QR  coverage from 28.7X
machines), but excluding those on oil     to 28.24x of production of tradeablos plus any
and derivatives, and agroindustrial       progres drwived from the soetoral programs; and
products, declired significantly, and
presontly Is about ax of tradeable        (ii) further reduction In QRs coverage  will depend on
production.                               ovolution of the sectoral programs and measures to be
taken under a possible future Agricultural Sectoral
Loan.
Satisfactory progress In Implementation of plan of         Before Second
action.                                                    Tranche Release



t
ANNEX V
P?^  10  f 13
OSJECTIYES           ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                        ACTIONS TO BE TAMEN                               TIMING
Coverase of export quotas on export. of   Carry out agreed upon study to oliminato the voluntary
non-oil industrial products (e.g.,        EQ6  and to introduce an auction system for the
petrochmicals, steel, metl products,    allocation of involuntary EQ*.
fertilizers), also declined
significantly and presently Is about
4.1X of tradeable production. These EQs
are affected by International trade
agremente(e.g. textiles and steel).
Complete the study and agree on a plan for Its            Before Second
implementetion.                                           Tranche Release.
Further Improvement In the anti-dumping system will be
addressed in a plan of action to be submitted,
Including:
(i) training program; and                                                      0%
(i) information system.
Satisfactory progress In lmplementing the action          Before Second
*  progrom.                                                   Tranch, Release
Carry out agreed upon study to review the unfair trade
practices regulations.
Complete the study and agree on a plan for its            Before Second
Implementation.                                           Trancho Reloese.



MEX v
PEe II of 13
OBJECtiES            ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                        ACTIONS TO K  TAKEN                                 TIMING
(b) Remo"        Toea force for adminlstrative              Ipl_nt th, agreed upon action program Including:
Ent"w            simplification was *stebliahd by
Barriers and     Presidential Agreemnt. In March 1989,    (1) Ministry of Foreip Affeirs:
Simalif,         published gneral progrm to simplify
Adinistrative   Ademinstratlve Procedures.                  - dsentralizatlon of euthorization to constitut4 
nW Lo" I                                                   corporation to the offices In the cities of Toluca,
Proedurs         Also a program for econemic                Monterrey, Hermolilo, Guadal*jara and La Poa;
Affctin          deregulation ms created by
Busin_e.         Presidential Drere  n Marbch, 1989.         (I1) SHCP:
- dscentralization of decision-mnking cepacity to
the different custom offices,
- automation of customs services,
- sImplification of formats, speding up customs
procedure, and
- for ALTEX firms (highly exporting firms),
elimination of the required fiscal guarantee and
lncrease the tim  period to re-export m_rchandis  in
the temporary Imports regime and reduction in the
tim  spent In procedures by ALTEX firm;
(il) SECOFI:
- modernization to simplify and speed-up licensing of
Imports end exports,
- simplification of procedures for: registration,
ALTEX firms, PITEX program (temporary adeission),
exports of technology, engineering services and
construction, tax rebates and textile and steel
quotas,
- simplification of the registration in the Psdron
Naclonal do Is Industris Faraceutica (National
Registry for the Pharmaeutical Industry).
Improvement in inspection visits to check the
requirements for registration In the Padron,



ANNEX V
Pan* 12 of 18
OBJECTINES           ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                      ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                                TIDING
- permnont registry of product. nd services
subject to oblipgtory norm,
- pormnent authorization of the model for metrology
lnetruemnts, and
- esotblish a computerized system to register prices.
Satisfactory progream in tmplementing the action plan.   Before Second
Tranche Rele
IV. Promot
Factor Pricing
(a) Eliminate    CEPROFIs for the Industrial sector,
Tax Incentives   except for micro and small enterprises,
have alroedy been eliminated.
(b) Eliminate   Deregulation of commercial banks and
Industrial       rationaliantion of development banks
Credit           and trust funds' credit allocation
Subsidies,       policies has practically eliminated
Industrial credit subsidies.
V. Dereoulato and       Entry to Multi-modal operator open        Carry out agreed upon comprehensive study on the
Itprovo             since March, 1989.                        regulatory onvironm_nt for trucking services with the
Competition in                                                purpose of producing a compr eeosive, consistent and
Truckina            A second firm has been authorized to      enforceable program for the removal of impediments to
Services            operate as a multi-modal (container)      competition *nd efficiency.
transport agent.Consolidation of
containers is now taking place in on     Complete the study and ogree upon a plan of action for   Before Second
lond depots.                             Ito iplementatlon.                                        Trench. Reloas.



ANNEX V
Peg      of 18
OBJECTrIES           ACTIONS ALRAY TAKEN                         ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                               TIMIN
Negotiation have taken place with U.S.
Department of Commerce to focilltate
lnternational trucking moveonts.
Movowents of trucks and trailors across
the border is now allowed with Mexican
crew.
SCa requesed chango in legislation to
SHCP to allow national cargos to be
carried In International containers.
SCT requested permiselon fre SWCP to
expand the National Railway Terminal at
Pantaco where bottleneck existed.
VI. External Finance
Ensure adequate                                               Subetontlal progrs has been mad  in obtaining             Effectivenes
financing                                                     adquate financing for Mexico's requirements for 1969
consistent with                                               and 1990 In tho context of the adjustment program and
adjustment and                                                growth targot set forth In 'Moxico's Economlc
growth targets,                                               Strategy  Issued by SHCP.
and to maintain
reserves at                                                   Continued substantial progress in obtaining adequate      Before Second
reasonable                                                   financing for Mexico's requirements for 1989 and 1990      Tranche Reloes
levels.                                                      and the medium torn In the context of the adjustoent
progrm and growth targets set forth In *Mexico's
Economic Strategy' Issued by SHCP.
As mentioned In the Industrial Sector Pollcy Letter dated, May 12, 1999, the Coverment of Mexico states that for each action concerning: I
(b), TI, and III (a) herein above, the scope and timing of the plan of action discussed above may be affocted according to the results of
intornatlonal negotiations. The Government of Mexico will Intensify the process of nootiations and proposes to establish a mchanism for
consultation with the World Bank to evaluate the progress of the negotiations baed on market accoss.



- 73 -
Annex VI
Page 1 of 9
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR PROGRAMS
1.       Mexico's industrial sector operates under the guidance of a number
of sector programs, PROGRAMAS INTEGRAL DE DESARROLLO Y COMERCIO EXTERIOR,
commonly referred to as programas de rama. These programs, developed by
the Ministry of Industry and Trade (SECOFI) in consultation with industry
representatives, have typically established guidelines for the industry in
line with the Government's development policies for each subsector. For
example, the program for the auto industry was designed to shift the trade
account of the industry from a deficit to a surplus position, in part
through encouraging export growth. The petrochemical program was intended
to reduce the number of petrochemical products from the exclusive domain of
Pemex in order to stimulate private sector investments in and further
development of the subsector. These programs contain a mix of incentives,
regulations and penalties to guide firms in related subsectors toward
determined policy goals. The following indicates the sectors for which
specific programs were developed as well as the date of their announcement:
List of Industry Programsl
* Autos and Autoparts ---(Diario Oficial 15 September 1983 and 28 August
1984).
*  Pharmaceuticals ---(Diario Oficial 23 February 1984 and 2 April 1985).
*  Secondary Petrochemicals ---(1986).
* Micro Cimputers ---(1982, not ratified into law, but in effect).
*  Capital Goods ---(largely dormant).
2.       There are also areas of industry governed by programas de rama
which are not related to specific subsectors, but which cut across specific
industry lines. For example, there are programs for micro, small and medium
industry and for maquiladoras (in-bond assembly industry).
3.       The industry programs for the automobile, pharmaceutical,
petrochemical, and electronic sectors are discussed belows
11 There is a possibility that there may be other sectoral programs that
have been drafted and are largely dormant. It was the original intent
of SECOFI to publish programs for all of the principal subsectors under
its direction.



-74 -An2nex VI
Page 2 of 9
I. INDUSTRY PROGRAM FOR THE AUTOMOBILE SECTOR
4.       In the late 19708 and early 1980, the automobile industry in
Mexico accounted for a large part of Mexico's manufacturing trade deficit.2
The overall objectives established by SECOFI were to correct Mexico's
negative trade balance in industry, eliminate industry subsidies, while
increasing Mexico's competitiveness in the sector. The first program
published for the auto industry stated, "it is necessary to rationalize the
automotive industry in order that it will contribute more efficiently to
national objectives and priorities. In that respect, it is indispensable
that the automotive industry stops being a drain on the commercial balance
of the country, and that in the future it generates its own resources in
order to operate.'3 The Program de rama was designed to: (i) reduce the
number of car models being produced in Mexico; (ii) increase production of
autos (cars, buses, trucks and other vehicles) as well as autoparts
exports; (iii) raise the share of domestic content of finished automobiles
assembled in Mexico; and (iv) encourage further integration of national
components via efficient import-substitution by strengthening domestic
autoparts companies.4
5.       The decree explicitly limited the number of lines and models which
the auto producers could manufacture for 1985, 1986 and 1987. Additional
lines would be authorized only when a producer exported more than 50 of
the cars it produced in Mexico. The decree also specified the degree of
integration, i.e., domestic content of production of the automotive firms
by year (1984-87) and by model number. Production of cars with eight
-cylinder engines was prohibited after 1985. Producers of diesel engines
for trucks had to be represented by 50S Mexican capital. Car producers
were required to obtain 50? of the revenues from the domestic sale of
components, parts and raw materials, of which only 20? could be components
supplied by the macuiladora (in-bond) industry. Autoparts production was
reserved for domestic firms, with the exception of those cases where
autoparts producers were unable to meet the specifications of the car
producers. Autoproducers were required to become financially self-
sufficient, thus ending the need for Government subsidies. The decree
further placed a limit on external borrowing for imported parts and
components of 20S of the company's annual budget. To encourage investment
in the sector, limitation on imports of machinery and equipment was removed
from the budget and financing provisions of the law up to 31 October 1985
or for one additional year, if civil works and infrastructure had already
been completed.
21 In 1981, the automotive sector accounted for 60? of Mexico's deficit
within the manufacturing sector, with a deficit of US$1.5 billion. For
1987, the industry generated a surplus of over US$1.5 billion--a swing
of US$3 billion.
3/ Diario Oficial, 15 September 1983, p.16.
41 The autoparts sector has been reserved for domestic companies, defined
as consisting of 60? Mexican shareholders. Many of the companies
considered competitive in the sector have joint venture or licensing
arrangements with foreign autoparts producers.



_ 75 -                       Annex Vl
Page 3 of 9
6.       The decree specified the role of autoparts producers in the
automotive program. First, these producers had to be domestic firms (60a
Mexican capital). Second. the use of local inputs and components was
defined by model year, ranging from 502 in 1984 to 602 in 1986; by 1987,
autoparts producers were expected to use 80 of domestic inputs. In the
event these goals were not reached, SECOFI was given the power to cancel
the company's registration or authorization to produce parts. Lastly, the
automotive program established an intersectoral commission for the
automotive industry to provide technical and consultation assistance for
domestic producers.
7.       The decree of August 28, 1984, provides a series of definitions,
formulas and calculations for the sector to assess its degree of domestic
integration (use of domestic components), determining export levels
required by auto producers, relative to their degree of domestic
integration (e.g. degree of integration 0-29?, export requirement 100?,
33-35Z, export 76Z, 48-50?, export 602, etc.). Based on the degree of
integration, the decree also specifies the limits for imports, operating
costs and external borrowing.
8.       On balance, the macroeconomic conditions and the implementation of
the Program have forced major auto producers in Mexico, all of which are
multinational companies, to reduce operating losses and dependence on
imports. In addition, Ford through its new Hermosillo plant, Chrysler and
Volkswagen, made commitments to new investments to protect their positions
in the Mexican market by increasing exports. Renault, on the other hand,
closed its production operations in Mexico, while Nissan, a relatively new
market entrant, has steadily increased its market share. Nissan also
raised its investment via a debt-equity swap of over US$100 million.
9.       Many of the detailed rules and regulations in the sector have
proven difficult to audit for compliance. There is general agreement
within the industry and SECOFI that these rules and regulations should,
therefore, be simplified and made more flexible, allowing car producers to
increase their options to enable them to comply with the spirit of the
decree.
10.      The Government, through SECOFI, has taken a number of steps to
liberalize the rules and regulations governing the sector. However, as a
result of trade liberalization, the effective protection granted to this
sector now is much higher compared to most other sectors in the economy.
The major actions taken to date as well as needed future actions are
detailed below:
11.      The Government has modified the regulations governing the
autoparts sector and liberalized trade in the sector, resulting in
substantial changes in the basic program. The major changes include the
following:
(i)    allowing effective domestic content to decrease below
regulatory requirements;
(ii)   streamlining export requirements;
(iii)  simplifying administrative reporting requirements, and



- 76 -                       Annex VI
Page 4 of 9
(iv)   liberalizing trade in the industry by:  (a) removing QR's,
(b) establishing a maximum tariff at 20Z. with most tariff
rates at 10-15Z, (c) allowing import of "mandatory parts"
at 202 tariff rate; (d) allowing import of steel not
produced in Mexico at 02 tariff rate; (e) allowing import
of "bits at 02 rate; and (f) allowing the establishment of
maquila plants in direct competition to domestic autoparts
producers.
II. INDUSTRY PROGRAM FOR PHARMACEUTICAL SECTOR
12.      The program for the pharmaceutical sector, named as 'Integrated
Development Program for the Pharmaceutical Industry, 1984-88,' was
established in February 1984 to substitute imports of pharmaceutical raw
materials by domestic production.5 A following decree in April 1985
reinforced standards for raw material integration, defined guidelines for
establishing a National Registry of Pharmaceutical Firms and Good
Manufacturing Practices (GMPs) for the pharmaceutical industry in Mexico,
specified labeling requirements, listing active ingredients for packaging
of pharmaceuticals sold to pharmacies in order to rationalize the number of
registered brands and products and provide a means to control prices based
on the principle of equal price for equal products and set forth sanctions
such as deregistration for firms not complying with GMPs or labeling
requirements as specified in the decree. The Pharmaceutical Program
focused on encouraging domestic integration through investment by major
pharmaceutical companies in active ingredients. The decree sought to
mandate investment by pharmaceutical companies to integrate backwards.6 The
Program also sought self-sufficiency; 98S of all end product pharmaceutical
requirements and 602 of active ingredients were targeted to be domestically
produced.7 Moreover, the Program stated that exports should represent a
minimum of 14Z of pharmaceutical sales and 302 of active ingredient sales.
13.      The Sectoral program offered preference to domestic fims (defined
as enterprises with a majority of Mexican ownership) prepared to invest in
facilities to produce fine chemicals, constituting active ingredients for
pharmaceutical production. Financial support was proposed for such firms
through Nacional Financiera S.A. (NAFINSA). A further objective was to
enhance Mexico's technological capabilities in the production of fine
chemicals by creating a close linkage among R&D activities in Mexico and
firms producing pharmaceuticals. Firms are required to spend 5Z of their
sales on R&D activities.
14.      In addition, the Program sought to service the growing public
health requirements of the country by focusing on basic products. Under
S/ In 1982, the industry imported US$300 million of pharmaceutical
ingredients versus US$100 million of exports.
6/ Foreigned-owned pharmaceutical companies accounted for 722 of sales in
1982. About 50 companies represented 71Z of sales as of 1982, of vhich
14 were Mexican firms (Diario Oficial, 23 February 1984, p. 12).
7/ Diario Oficial, 23 February 1984, p. 13.



- 77 -                       Annex VI
Page 5 of 9
the Basic List of the Health Sector, domestic firms were to be given
preference in supplying public health needs.8 Government procurement for
public health was to be used to develop and regulate the industry.
15.      Public sector participation was reserved for bio-chemical
activities to bring research to a commercial scale. Public participation
was limited to the production of vaccines. The only public sector
pharmaceutical producer was privatized. Vaccine production was planned to
be expanded under a Rockefeller Foundation grant to establish a facility to
service all Latin American countries.
16.      Protection.  To protect those plants which produce active
ingredients, the Program proposed a series of import quotas (QRs) for five
years. After five years, the maintenance of QRs was planned to be
conditioned on domestic prices being set at internationally competitive
levels. Price controls will be maintained on final pharmaceutical products
sold to pharmacies, on products sold to the public health service from
which substantial discounts from normal profit margins were anticipated as
well as on fine chemicals. An Intersecretarial Commission on
Pharmaceuticals would establish the acceptable range of prices to be
charged.
17.      Foreign Direct Investment (DFI).  The Programs allows DFI in the
sector. Foreign firms, however, were prohibited from acquiring established
domestic Mexican-owned enterprises. Regulations require the following
conditions from DFI: (i) not displace domestic Mexican production; (ii)
new production substitute for imports; (iii) Pnterprises be financially
self-sufficient; (iv) major part of production be for export; (v)
production be internationally competitive; and (vi) new production be
located outside of Mexico City.
18.      Quality Assurance.  The Program provides for quality assurance at
two levels: (i) GMP's - Good Manufacturing Practices. The Public Health
Ministry with SECOFI would inspect production facilities annually. The
former will verify GMP's in all aspects (similar to FDS GMP requirements
and the latter would observe that updated equipment and technology
standards are observed); and (ii) new product/new formulation approval
though laboratories managed by the Seguro Social (Social Security) and
Secretaria de Salud (Secretariat of Health).
Program Results
19.      The GOM recognizes that in many respects, the pharmaceutical
program has not worked well. The following outlines key areas of
success/failure and recommendations for a new approach: (i) attempts to
rationalize product lines and brands failed. The industry did not comply
with listing active ingredients and resisted the registration requirements;
(ii) price controls via "equal prices for equal products, concept was
doomed for failure from the start. It was aimed at negotiating cost plui
pricing with producers, treating all pharmaceuticals as generic products.
During 1986-1987, price increase approvals lagged inflation by a large
8/ The Program consistently refers to the need to satisfy public health
requirements as defined by the Basic List, Diario Oficial, 23 February
1984, pp. 14-15.



- 78-                        Annex VI
Page 6 of 9
margin and the industry started increasing prices without a permlssion.
This led to great distortions in pricing. Before the introduction of the
ESP, the industry and the Government agreed on a pricing approach.  This
approach provided for a practical separation of products according to three
categories: (1) generics (Basic List)9 ; (2) Over the Counter Products,
OTC's (subject to quarterly, inflation-adjusted price increases); and (3)
prescription drugs (priced by the companies, with 30 days negative approval
submission to the Pharmaceutical Cormission --after 30 days if the
Government does not protest, the increase goes into effect); (iii) a basic
list of about 300 products (standardized for clinics and hospitals of the
Public Health Service, the Social Security Service and other public
providers of health). The needs of the public sector are met via yearly
purchases under a public tender, in which only domestic firms are included.
A complicated weighting system sought to benefit domestic firms. In view
of the budget limitations of the public sector, price criteria prevailed;
(iv) Active Ingredient Integration. The Program sought to encourage
investment in active ingredients. Only US$50 million were invested over
four years, despite quota protection. Price controls and resistance by the
multinational companies made the Program inoperable. Yet, SECOFI indicates
a number of basic raw material investments were undertaken during this time
period.
20.      The impact on the balance o trade.  The impact of the program on
the balance of payments is shown in the following table. As can be
observed, the Program has not shown any dramatic results since its
introduction in 1984.
MEXICOs
BALANCE OF TRADE FOR PRARHACEUTICALS, 1982, 1984, 1988
(US$ millions)
1982      1984           1988
(Estimate)
Tmports of Pharmaceuticals            9           6            7
Imports of Raw Materials            208         143          148
Imports of Intermediates             47          49           80
Total Imports                    264         198          235
Exports of Pharmaceuticals           57          42           63
Exports of Raw Materials             40          50           87
Total Exports                     97          92          150
Pharm. Trade Balance               -160        -107          -92
Raw Material Trade Balance           -7           1            7
Trade Balance                      -167        -106          -85
Source: SECOFI.
9/ It may be technically wrong to name this group as generics; it is
actually a list of basic products.



79                         Annex VI
Page 7 of 9
III. INDUSTRY PROGRAM FOR PETROCHEMICAL SECTOR
21.      The Petrochemical Program (Programa Integral De Fomento A La
Industria Petroguimica) is the most recently announced program. It is a
cooperative undertaking of the concerned ministry representing the basic
petrochemical sector, SEMIP, and the secondary petrochemical sector,
SECOFI, other concerned ministries, Ministry of Finance and SPP, PEMEX (to
whom all basic petrochemical production has been reserved),10 secondary
petrochemical producers, largely in private hands and affiliated producers
areas such as the fiber producers. The program published in 1986 is
designed to address the short, medium and long-term restructuring needs of
the industry, and specifically, including among others, the following
issues: (i) improved integration and planning between primary or basic
petrochemical production reserved for PEMEX and the secondary petrochemical
industry as well as other downstream industries (fibers, plastics, etc.)
represented by a number of producers principally in the private sector;
(ii) improvement of the industry's trade performance and increased
orientation to exports. The industry has run a continuous deficit, from a
high of US$839 million in 1981 to US$437 million in 1985 (the deficit in
the basic petrochemical sector was US$599 million in 1985, indicating that
the secondary industry was in surplus); (iii) upgrading of R&D efforts and
overall technological standard of the industry, dependent at present on
imported technology; (iv) improved domestic and international
competitiveness through cost and production efficiencies and improved
Integration of production along the petrochemical chain. Production in
1985 in the basic sector controlled by PEMEX, was estimated at 702 of
capacity -- a low figure by international standards and as compared to
secondary usage estimated at 85Z;11 (v) quality and product specifications
are to be agreed upon between P1MEX anJ its customers in the secondary
sector; (vi) price adjustments to more closely reflect international prices
(prices have generally hovered around 80 of world market prices); (vii)
improved financial structure for the industry -- overly indebted due to
rapid expansion with externally borrowed funds in the late 1970, and early
19808; (viii) improved infrastructure to facilitate imports of feedstock
not produced domestically, with particular emphasis on port requirements;
(ix) increased concern and advancement in pollution control; and (x)
response to global competition in petrochemicals with potential challenges
Mexico's competitiveness in several basic product areas.
22.      The Petrochemical Program is a mix of three main elements: (i) a
strategic plan to guide the industry in the short-term (1987-1988), medium-
term (1989-1991) and long-term (1992-2000); Cii) regulations and fiscal
incentives guiding the industry; and (iii) a defined set of priority
investments by product chain, averaging between US$450 and US$800 million a
year in basic petrochemicals and US$470 million in secondary petrochemicals
dependent on the expected growth in industry demand.
10/ Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution is the basic law, governing oil
and petrochemical industry, while the law concerning the petrochemical
sector published in 1971 established the regulatory framework for the
industry.
11/ In 1988, the overall petrochemical industry has experienced a surge in
demand due to tightness in world capacity. It is probable that the
secondary industry is presently running at maximum capacity.



- 80 -                       Annex VI
Page 8 of 9
23.      Entry Barriers. The program contains the following entry barriers:
(i) the petrochemical industry, defined as a priority industry, is reserved
for domestic firms, PEMEX in basic products, and enterprises with at least
60Z Mexican capital in secondary industries; (ii) foreign investors can
invest in joint ventures in the sector; (iii) the industry is governed by
the Comision Petroquimica Mexicana (Mexican Petrochemical Commission) and
entry into the sector is based on the Commission's approval. Moreover, the
Commission is empowered to allocate production according to quota, if basic
feedstock production fails to satisfy domestic demand.
24.      Policy Thrust of the Program.  The major policy thrust of the
program is to gradually liberalize the sector from PEMEX's control. To
achieve this objective, the following measures are planned: (i) bring
domestic prices in line with international prices; (ii) gradually
liberalize trade in basic petrochemicals by allowing secondary
petrochemical firms to import basic petrochemicals, not produced by PEMEX
or produced in insufficient quantities. However, the permit system will
still remain in effect in specific cases; and (iii) reclassify about 36
products previously on the list of basic products reserved for PEMEX as
secondary petrochemicals open to private investors. (In 1985, 92Z of
basics and 72Z secondary products were covered by QRs; by 1989, QRs on
basic secondary products were practically eliminated).
25.      A range of fiscal incentives, export financing and development
financing programs are provided to the sector. Essentially, the
Petrochemical Program is less dependent on strict regulatory controls and
more on policy controls. It still incorporates many government-controlled
elements in the program, since the major player, PEMEX is dominant in the
industry.
IV. ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY
26.      The Electronics Program, more correctly the micro-computer
industry program, was formulated in 1982, but was never published due to
economic events in Mexico which overtook all other issues.
27.      The Program operates informally under the administrative guidance
of SECOFI. Its objectives include the following:
(i)   introducing policies to develop a micro-computer industry in
Mexico;
(ii) giving preference to domestic firms through public sector
procurement and QR's on final product imports and quotas on
spare parts and component imports;
(iii) reducing trade deficit in the subsector; and
(iv) lowering prices, which in 1981 were running at 2502
(according to SECOFI) of U.S. market prices.



- 81 -                       Annex VI
Page 9 of 9
28.     The Program excluded main frame and main frame peripherals, and
mini-computers from import restrictions.
29.     Micros were defined as computers with a sales values of US$500 to
US$15,000. This definition is subject to change.
30.     Two major changes in policy have driven the industry:
(i)   trade liberalization, allowing free import of components,
spare parts and peripherals at tariffs of 10-15% versus
tariffs of 40-502 before the Program began, 'kits" under the
Ley Octava are imported at 5% for existing producers. The
liberalization has spawned wide scale assembly operations and
production of IBM clones; and (ii) DPI liberalization.  IBM
entered the market in July 1985 under 100% ownership.
31.     In 1981, the industry imported US$239.9 million of computers and
parts and only exported US$3.9 million. There were two produLers of
micros, one peripheral producer and one mini producer. By 1987, the
industry has grown dramatically, Imports are US$332 million; exports US$252
million and the trade balance a negative US$80 million.  However, in 1987,
the industry employed 6,000 people versus 2,754 in 1983, and there were 30
micro manufacturers, 33 peripheral producers, 11 mini producers for a total
of 57 manufacturing companies. Production has risen from US$171 million in
1985 to US$406 million in 1987.
32.     Domestic content objectives of 50X is currently at 30-40X.  Exports
are required to compensate for imports. Domestic producers, according to
SECOFI, have a 40% market share. Several producers have stayed outside the
program, preferring to import instead.
33.     Prices have been brought into line, from very high imported prices.
They now average, according to SECOFI, 125S of U.S. list price (list price
to list price comparison) versus 115% of U.S. list price sought under the
Program.



ANNEX VII
- 82 -                        Page I of 14
MEXICO: TRADE POLICY REFORM
Background
Industrialization through import substitution has been the
dominant development strategy in the Latin American region since the 1950s
and Mexico has been no exception. Trade policies, particularly tariffs and
quantitative restrictions on competing imports, have been used to promote
manufacturing production for the domestic market at the expense of
agricultural and export activities. At the same time, trade restrictions
have been used to support extensive control of pricing and marketing of
agricultural goods. Trade policies have also been directed at
macroeconomic goals--periodic balance of payments crises have led to
tightening of import restrictions; inflationary pressures have led to
loosening of trade restrictions.
The onset of the payments crisis in 1982 saw quantitative control
of all imports, and thus protection of all domestic production of
tradables. Since mid-1985, Mexico has undertaken a fast and far-reaching
liberalization of the trading regime, aimed at expanding the tradables
sector, opening up to international competition, and encouraging efficiency
in both exporting and import-substitution activities. Mexico acceded to
the GATT in 1986 and has signed the GATT Customs Valuation Code.
The key reforms included more flexible management of the nominal
exchange rate to promote the tradables sector, and removal of licensing and
official reference prices for imports and exports, and reductions in levels
and range of tariffs. Some quantitative indicators of liberalization are
reflected in Table 1.
Table 1: TRADE LIUERALIZATION 19B5-1989
June B6  DOc 86   June ee  D cB    June 87   DOc 87   may 88    March B9el
Import Licensing sf  92.2    47.1    46.9   89.9       85.8     25.4     28.2       22.8
Reference Prime " /  18.7    25.4    19.6   18.7       13.4      0.6      0.0        0.0
Tarifts-Maximmu    100    100        45      46        40       20        20        20
-Average M   28.5    28.6      24.0   24.5       22.7     11.8      11.0      12.6
Real Exchange
Rat S/          100     127.1      148.5  157.4     164.8    147.2    124.8    122.4d/
s/ Percentage coverage of production of tradables using 1986 weights.
k/ Weighted by production of tradable. in 1986; excludes 6 percent surcharge.
s/ Increase represente a depreciation In real terms.
Exchange rate index Is for December 1988
/ Prellminary bank etimates.
Import licensing coverage is now 22.32 of domestic production
vhich is less than one-quarter of what it was in June 1985, official
reference prices have been completely abolished, the maximum tariff is now
201 and the average tariff is 12.61 which are respectively about one-fifth
and one-half of what they were in June 1985. Progress as of early 1989 had



ANNEX VII
- 83 -                       Page 2 of 14
gone beyond the Government's original schedule, GATT commitments, and the
targets in the TPL II and ASL I.
This impressive progress on trade reform was complemented by other
reforms, particularly in the areas of macroeconomic stabilization, reducing
domestic price controls, and aligning of administered agricultural prices
more closely with international prices.
This substantial opening up of the economy was achieved quickly
during a period of considerable macroeconomic instability and uncertainty.
The priority now is for a period of consolidation of the impressive
improvements in the neutrality, transparency and simplicity of the trading
regime, and deepening of reform in areas where there has been lesser
progress so far.
Latest Reforms And The Current Trade Regime
Since the 1950s, tariffs along with quantitative restrictions
(QRs), offic'al reference prices (ORPs) and export controls have been used
to protect producers of manufactures for the domestic market at the expense
of agriculture and exports. From July 1985 a crucial change in the trade
regime took place when the Government introduced a broad based
liberalization program, including accession to the GATT. The reforms aimed
to rationalize protection and to raise efficiency of domestic production by
reducing the coverage of QRs and ORPs, and tariffs.
To present the changes in the trade regime quantitative
restrictions on imports, import tariffs and the export regime are reviewed.
A. Quantitative Import Restrictions as of March 1989
quantitative controls have been an important element in the
Mexican trade regime being used to achieve both protective and
macroeconomic objectives. After the payments crisis in 1982, 100 percent
of imports were subject to QRs. (Quantitative control of exports has also
been part of the trade regime--see Section C below).
Import controls were not much reduced in the 1982-1984 period, but
from July to December 1985 QR coverage was reduced from 922 of domestic
production to 46? (1986 weights).1   Liberalization was more extensive in
manufactured products (especially intermediate goods, but also some capital
and consumer goods) and less in agricultural products. From 1986 to May
1988 further reductions took place, leaving only 22.32 of domestic
production subject to QRs on competing imports. While the initial step in
mid-1985 was impressive by halving the coverage of import restrictions, the
1/ The production coverage of QRs is described using the latest available
weights for the 1986 domestic production. The methodology for measuring
the tradables production coverage of QRs on competin- imports was
agreed betweer the Government and the Bank in regard of TPL I and set
out in Annex V of that Presidents Report.



ANNEX VII
- 84 -                        Page 3 of 14
1986-1987 period was slw in implementing larger changes. In December 1987
another big step was done by reducing QR coverage by 10 percent from 35.8
to 25.4 percent.
Three hundred and twenty seven items (under the newly introduced
Harmonized Tariff system) are still controlled, accounting for less than 3
percent of all items and about 18 percent of imports (July to December 1988
values).
In June 1985 only one of the 59 sectors (ferrous mining) had no
restrictions, while in March 1989 34 sectors had no controls (The current
trade regime is shown in Table 5 including the import-weighted data).
Sectors that remain largely controlled are petroleum and petroleum
refining, automobiles, coffee processing, and tobacco. Sectors with some
reductions, but still controlled are poultry, fish and seafood, meat and
dairy, sugar and vegetable oils. Important restrictions remain in
pharmaceuticals and autoparts, although reductions here have been
substantial. Large reductions were made in important sectors like
textiles, petrochemicals and electric and electronic equipment.
From 1985 to 1988 the official reference price system was
gradually dismantled, so that the coverage of 25.42 of domestic production
by ORPs in December 1985 has been reduced to zero. The largest changes in
ORPs took also place in the second semester of 1987, when the coverage was
reduced from 13.4 percent to only 0.6 percent of production.
Reductions in production-weighted QR coverage can be compared
using 1983 weights (which were used in setting the TPL I and II targets)
with the now available 1986 weights. The re-weighting is approximate and
the figures in the table have been rounded to reflect that. The main
difference between the weights is the significantly reduced share of oil
and derivatives in tradable production (20.5 percent in 1983 weights
compared with 5.5 percent in 1986 weights). QR coverage was reduced from
the TPL II and target of 43.1 percent for end-1987 to roughly 34 percent in
March 1989 (a reduction of close to 10 percentage points) using 1983
weights (see Table 2). Using the 1986 weights the comparable reduction is
from about 33 percent to 22.3 percent (until March 1989). In the TPL II
President's Report it was conjectured that QR coverage of between 25
percent and 30 percent of tradables production (1983 weights) might be
expected to remain by end-1988. Current coverage at 34 percent (1983
weights) remains above this expectation, largely due to remaining QRs on
agroindustry products.



ANNEX VII
-85-                           Page 4 of 14
Table 2:s 31fOO  5/
March lgUbJ      TPL it target   TPL I target    June 1985
-end 1007     -end 1987
so      83       as        63       63              so
Weight,  weight  weight  weight.   weight,          wigh"
All tredablee         22.8    84       *        48.1      49.9J           92.0
011 A DWrIvativan      5.5    20.5      5.5    20.5       20.6             5.5
Othe                  16.6    is       n        22.6      20.8            S6.5
Contribution to Total CoverMge. Mard 19
O1I and Orlvetivm                  5.5
Ageliulture, Livestaec A Fishery   7.7
Agroindutry                        8.1
Industry progr                     2.7
Other Industry                     0.8
All tredablee                     22.8
/ Coverae of amtl productlon of comp tng tradable,t 19O8 or 196 weights.
i PrelIlossry Sank *tmlete.
/ Plm 18.2 of coverage of  Pe giving total (net) NT coverage of 0.13 of tradables.
A closer look at the sectoral make-up of the 22.3 percent
productLon-weighted QR coverage in March 1989 (Tables 2 and 6) reveals a
large portion of the petroleum and derivatlves (5-52). The control of this
important exportable stems from the Constitution and nationalizatlon of the
oil-sector. Most of the import restrictlons remain in the agricultural
sector lncluding livestock (7.71) and agroindustry (6.11). The remaining
sectors with substantial QR coverage are those with industrial sectoral
program (2.7t). The QRs support mainly the *Programas de Ramas' for autos
and auto-parts, and pharmaceuticals. MexLco has significant exports of
autos and auto parts.
The maln remaining QRs in agriculture and agroindustry apply to
some largely exportable products. Livestock (1.12), flshery (0.41). such
products as meat (1.62), coffee (1.71) sugar (1.01) and tobacco (0.81) are
still controlled (see Table 6). In agriculture and agroindustry the QRs
support price controls, guaranteed prices , international marketing
agreements and CONASUP0s monopoly for several imports.
QRs are applied in a discretionary and not transparent manner.
Many QRs work as of authorized permlts ('permisos previos"), which are
granted dependlng on availablilty of local substltutes and price
dlfferentlals between the imported and the domestic products. A well-
deflned rule for each product category does not exist. Permits are
allocated largely on the basls of past performance.
The permlts for imports authorLzed ln 1987 accounted for US$4.3
mllions (43.12 for the public, 56.92 for the private sector). Within the
public sector the enterprlses with the largest amount of permits were PEMEX
(59.61) and CONUSUPO (25.4t). In the prlvate sector the permits for
agroindustry (42.62) and automoblles (23.21) represent the largest parts.
Actual Imports are usually lIss than the permlts given.



AM=E VII
- 86 -                       Page 5 of 14
Additional controls exist for sanitary reasons. Including these
controls the production covered by controls rises to 40 percent. Most of
the import permits not issued by SECOFI can be found in livestock, meat and
milk and pharmaceuticals. These controls are extremely bureaucratic because
of the involvement of several agencies (SSA, SARK and SEDUE).
B. The Import-Tariff Structure
Tariff protection has played an important role in Mexico and was
increased in the late 1970s and early 19809. By 1982 the average tariff
was 22.8Z and the dispersion 25.42. As of July 19MS tariffs ranged from 0
to 10O, with a production-weighted average of 23.51. From July to
December 1985, tariffs were raised for some products that had been
controlled through QRs and ORPs. The production-weighted average rose to
28.5? in December 1985. From the beginning of 1986 a pre-announced across-
the-board tariff reduction process was initiated. In early 1986 the
maximum tariff level was reduced from 10OZ to 50S. Four following rounds
were planned to reduce tariffs from the range 0 to 50 in 1986, to O to
30Z in 1988.
As part of the ESP, changes in tariffs were made in December 1987
which went further than the planned rounds 3 and 4 (scheduled for 1988).
Tariff rates were halved and the 5 percent temporary Import surcharge was
completely eliminated leaving only 5 tariff rates ranging between 0? and
202.
In December 1988 and within the 1989 Budget objectives, the tariff
structure has been consolidated to raise revenues and reduce the
variability of protection across importables activities. The new tariff
structure raises the tariffs for many items previously imported at the 0
and 5 percent rates. Only 308 tariff items out of a total of 11.949 attract
now 0 and 5 perctnt rates but they account for 23.3 percent of imports
(July to December 1988). The present tariff structure (March 1989) leads to
a production-weighted average of 12.6 percent and an import- weighted
average of 9.9 percent (The tariffs by I/O sector are shown in Table 6).
Table 8: TARIFF DETAILS !/
Percent
Range                                  0-20
Simple average                         9.8
Production Weighted Average M         12.6
Import Weighted Average S/             9.9
Dispersion                             4.8
! March 1989, Harmonized System Tariff Clseslflcatlon.
M 1986 production of tradableo.
July to D ember 1888 Imports values.
In July 1988 the Harmonized System was introduced as the new tariff
classification. The production weights for domestic tradeables production



- 87 -                     ANNEX VII
Page 6 of 14
for 1986 was for the CCCN tariff classification. The matching for the
weights for the new system is therefore only approximate. New weights for
the Harmonized System and a more recent year of production will be
computed by SECOFI within this calendar year.
The tariff structure prevailing in 1988 showed the typical
escalation by stage of processing. Basic grains, raw material for high
priority industries and capital goods not produced in Mexico had a zero
tariff. Intermediate goods ranged mainly between 52 and 152, while
consumer goods ranged mainly between 152 and 202. The consolidation of the
tariffs leads therefore to an increase In the import weighted average that
is higher in the intermediate goods sector (3.22) and in the capital goods
sector (3.72) than in the consumer goods s6_tor(2.22).
Less than a quarter of imports enter with rates of 0 and 5 percent.
Most products enter at the 10 percent rate (472), especially large portions
of imports of Intermediate (47.2Z) and of capital goods (62.52). Consumer
goods imports remain mainly in the higher tariff rates (16.4 percent at a
15 percent tariff rate and 41.3 percent at 20 percent). Two thirds of
agricultural Imports enter at a zero tariff, while close to S0 percent of
anufactured imports enter at the 10 percent rate.
import tariffs represented 7.21 of total tax revenues in 1987, and
3.52 in the first semester of 1988. Import revenues as a percentage of GDP
was 0.75 in 1987 and 0.4 in 1988.
Data on the effective rate of protection based on tariffs is
available for December of 1987. The average rate was 12.52, with a
relative dispersion of 11.72 and a range between -42 for sugar and +472 for
automobiles and +742 for maize products. Additional information on a tariff
aructure that comes closer to the current regime can be obtained by looking
at the simulation data for option c in Annex IV of the report on Trade
Policy Reform and Economic Adjustment of August 1988. For this simulation
witha 101 minimum tariff and the 10 percent tariffs joined with the 15
percent tariffs the effective protection rises to 15.52, while the
dispersion has been reduced to 9.92.
C.     Exort Taxes and Controls
Export regulations traditionally have been less binding than import
regulation (and information is scarcer). Export regulations have also been
significantly liberalized during the 1980., again particularly after 1S85.
In 1980 coverage of export licensing over domestic production was
48.92 (1986 weights) and the coverage rate of official reference prices was
S4.5t. Export tazes have not been very high (except a 582 export tax on
petroleum and its derivatlves, which was removed in 1987) and have been
applied to only few products.
In March 1989, about 420 Items were subject to export licensing, accouuting
for some 2.3 percent of exports. Export restrictions are mainly aimed tos
- preserve Important natural reoources or scarce animal sorts;



ANNEX VII
- 88 -                       Page 7 of 24
- establish and guarantee the monopoly position of government
firms like PEMEX and CONASUPO;
- support domestic price control policies and domestic supply
targets;
- control exports under international trade agreements (coffee.
textiles, steel); and
- encourage processing of raw materials in the country.
Coverage of export licensint by May of 1988 was 24.8Z of
tradeables production (2986 weights)   and remains high In agriculture and
agroindustry. Table 7 shows the distribution of controls by sectors.
Authorizations issued by SECOFI account for 6.6? of the total. They are
mainly concentrated in the steel sector because of bi- and multilateral
agreements. The controls regulated through quotas are high in agriculture
and agroindustry, they account for 11.02 of the controls. The controls due
to the export monopoly of such agencies as CONASUPO or PEWEX accounts for
another 6.9Y. The remaining 0.3Z are related to the preservation of rare
flora and fauna.
The remaining export controls are concentrated as follows:
Table 4: EXPORT CONTROLS, MAY 1988
Contribution to
Total Coveraae a/
Oils & Derivatives                                                 1.9
Agriculture, livestock & Fishery                                   8.2
Agroindustry                                                      10.0
Industry (Petrochemicals, Steel,
Metal Products)                                                    4.7
All tradables                                                     24.8
a/ Percentage coverage of production of tradableeg 1986 weights.
For 12 crops under the guarantee price system domestic prlcea are regulated
via direct state trading or quantitatlve restrictions on Imports and
exports. Coffee is traded by a state monopoly IMNCAF which regulates the
sales to the quota markets of the lnternational coffee agreement. Tobacco
trade to the various quota and state regulated markets of the USA, the EEC
and the sociallet countries is the prerogative of the parautatal TABAMEX.
While most beef exports are now unregulated, live anlmals up to 280 kg are
subject to a 20 percent export tariff while the export of larger animals (a
small proportion of total beef exports) are subject to a tax of US$60 per
4I This is the latest date for which production related data is available.
Production weights for the export regime on the Earmonizet System have
not yet been computed.



- 89 -                      AN VEXVI
Page 8 of 14
head and export controls. For selected fruits (tomto, watermelon, melon,
mangoes., and strawberries), SECOFI still has to provide export permits.
Exports of fresh and camned fish and of fishmeal are subject to a variety
of formal and lnformal export restrictions (see lseo details on
agricultural sector issues below).
In May 1988 export taxes prevailed for only 0.6 percent of
production. The taxes ranged between 5 and 507 and apply mainly for
agricultural and agroindustrial products. The current regime of March 1989
shows that only 2.4 percent of exports pay export taxes.
The coverage of official reference prices is now only 2.42 of 1986
production and apply mainly to coffee processing (99.71).
A comparison of export and import controls shows that sectors like
agriculture and agroindustry, petroleum refining and some metal products
are restricted on both exports and imports. This shows the complexity of
the trade regime.



AINER VII
- 90 -                  Fa-g~t  * 9 of 14
TABLE 5: COVERAGEa OFUJNTTAZE ESBITIN  (IWFEGIME AS OF AC   3
P..hd..   d                   1
Acti t*                         .vrg1                       .ewgI
AORICULIME
I AOtICOLYM                          S.,                          3.4
AOtOIUSJMIAL PRODUCTS
11 MAT & MILK                         1.6                          1.3
12 FRUITS & VEGETABLES                  0                          0.0
1$ MILLING PRODUTS                      0                          0.0
14 MDXTOMAL PRODUCTS                    0                          6.0
15 COFFEE PRODUCTS                    1.?                          0.0
16 EFND SUGAR                           I                          0.0
17 VETABLE OILS                       0.7                          1.
is ANIMAL FOCODS                        0                          0.0
it MISC. FOOD                         0.2                          0.0
20 ALCOOLIC BVERAGE                     0                          0.0
21 MALT BEVERAGES                     0.1                          0.0
22 NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAG                 0                          0.0
IS tOBACCO PRODUCTS                   0.3                          0.0
SWTOTAL                               6.1                          8.4
UVES    . FORESTRY, AS MARINE
2 POULTRY                            1.1                          0.1
a FORETRY                              0                          0.0
4 FIH & SEAFOOD                      0.4                          0.0
SWBTOTAL                              1.5                          0.1
MINERALS
5 CARBON DERIVATIVES                   0                          0.0
I IN  ORE                              0                          0.0
* NONETALLIC MINALS                    0                          0.0
* CANTERAS                             0                          0.0
10 OTHER NONUEALCS                      0                          0.0
ASFACtS ING WH SECTORAL PROORAMS
24 SOFT FE  PRODUCTS                    0                          0.1
is AR FBE  PRODUCTS                     0                          0.0
o6 O ER IWL                           0.1                          0.0
3 WPAREL                                0                          0.0
U SIC PETROOEMICALS                     0                          0.0
U  ASIC OUMICALS                        0                          0.5
u PVARMACETCALS                       0.1                          0.3
34 EECRONIC ESiIPI                      0                          0.o
a AUTMIL                              3.4                          0.3
IN VnCLE PAR                          0.1                          0.0
so TRANPO   sDP                        6                          0.0
UTOTAL                                3.?                          3.1



- 91                            AN-    VII
Page 10 of 14
OTE MANUFACTURING
I LATHER A SHES                        0                          0.0
I SUMILL PRODUCTS                                                 0.0
S OTnEt WOOD PRODUCTS                  0                          0.0
6 MAIt E CARTBOAR                      0                          0.2
a PItNDIt                              a                          0.0
U VAAMA FTU Ot                         0,0.
P SYNTHETIC ESINS                      0                          0.0
89 SOAPS,DETFRODITS A C                0                          0.0
40 OHER CEUaCALS                      0.1                         0.1
41 RUBER PRODUCTS                      0                          0.0
42 PLASTIC PROWUCTS                    0                          0.0
48 LASS & GLASS PROUC                  0                          0.0
44 CEMENT                              0                          0.0
45 OTHER NONMETALLICS                 0.1                         0.0
4S BASIC FERROUS IMETALS               0                          0.0
47 BSIC NOWEOS  MET                    0                          0.0
45 METAL RMITERE                       0                          0.0
49 STRUCTMAL SHAWES                    0                          0.0
S0 OnHER METAL PRODUCTS                0                          0.0
61 NONELECTRICAL MACHIN               0.1                         0.4
St ELECTRICAL MACHINE                  0                          0.0
5 HOME ELECTRICAL APPL                 0                          0.0
*6 ELECTRICAL JWIPM                    0                          0.0
69 OTHER MANUFACTURIN                  0                          0.0
MIBToTAL                              0.8                         0.8
TAL EXCL. PETROLEtM                  10.9                        15.4
PETROLEUM ANDERIVATIES
* PETROLEUM EXTCT                    5.7                         0.1
SsPZIROLEUM                           1.                          2.2
SRTOTAL                               5.5                         2.2
TOTAL                                22.8                         17.6
I/ production welsh" are   of 1#. The correepond t. the CCC tariff clmlflateon
so that ts mtAtlg fo the Nsreeled System latrodueed to July 16 to onlyarpprozlat.
I/ Impore awe for July to BeeAhr of 19. Slam July tm Import have been ormpte on the
Harm_lad System. A rg.ltmfcstlion of the Jtnry to Jwu  Imperts lte the NHS cleslfietion
1t expete to be avalable with's the ftiet s_wer of 199.
1mret: Sak eetlte en SECOFI dae.



- 92 -                           ANNEVIl
Page 11 of 14
LAWL 0: TARIFF SUCTUR  AS OF MARCH lM
Simpl*     Prd.-W*eiht"      mpert-weighted
Activity         Avenge    Avetrge I,         Avera  2/
a ARICULTURE           12.$         0.2              2.2
2 PoJL1RY              1.5          9.7              6.0
a Foram                 0.6         9.8              8.5
4 FISH A SEAFOOD         19        10.9             19.2
6 CARBON DEtIVATIES      10         J.1              8.1
6 PETROLEUM EXTRCT       10          10               t0
7 153 ORE               0.0          10              0.3
* NONMETAULIC M1NM      9.9         s1               6.7
9 CATERAS              10.8        10.4              1.9
10 OTH  IIOMETALLICS    9.7          0.5              0.7
11 MEAT & MI            11.7          10              0.9
12 FRUITS TVETAE    15.3              19             15.9
18 MILN PRODUCTS        110         11.8             10.4
14MIXTOMALPROWJCTS        15        10.6                0
15 COFFEE PRODUCTS       2a0          c                t0
16 RFIED SUGAR          10.7          10               10
17 V.TABL OILS           0.5        6.7               4.4
16 ANIA FOODS            9.7          10              4.1
10 MISC. FOOD           14.8        10.1             18.3
t0 ALCOHOLIC IEVERAGE   13.7        19.9             13.4
1 MALT BEVLRAGS         18.8        19.4               10
12 NONALCOHOIC lEVE    10.8         19.0             38.2
2s TACCO PRODUCTS         20          t0               10
24 SOFT FIB  PRODUCT   14.0         14.2             11.9
25 HARD FP3  PRODUCT   11.7         11.0             10.0
SOTHr  TEmTLES          17.2        17.7             10.1
27 APPAREL              19.9          20             10.9
0 LETHER S SOIES        14.6        16.4             17.8
t9 SAWILL PRODUCTS      15.1        14.0             14.1
$0 OTHER WOOD PRODUC    17.6        17.5             18.2
31 PAPEt & CARDBOARD     0.2         9.8              4.2
82 PRINTING             10.5         8.0                4
$a PEfROLEM             10.6        10.2              8.7
84 SASIC PSIROCNEMICA    9.0         6.8              1.5
U BASIC CEICALS         10.1        10.2              7.8
IMAUE A fERTILUE    10.6           10.2             10.0
87 snHETIc  MI"s        12.2        12.1              6.8
8U PHARMACEUTICALS      11.6        15.7              7.6
89 SOAPS,DETERUENTS A    15.2       16.6             26.5
40 OTIHR CHMCALS        11.2        13.1               10
41 NAE  PRODUCTS        18.7        16.1             11.4
42 PLASTIC PRODCT       16.8        15.3             10.6
48 LAS & LASSSRFM       15.5         1.5             14.9



- 93 -                            ARMGK VIxv
Page 12 of 14
TAMLE Os f.nt'd)
44 CEIW.                   10          10                10
45 GM"ER NONUEtAU.ICS    15.5        16.4              N8.2
45 OSIC FERROUS ETA    10.6            10               0.9
47 IASIC NONfERROUS H    11.$        12.1               7.?
45 ETAL RONTURE          19.4        10.7              19.9
49 STWUCTURAL SHAPES     14.5        10.2              15.2
o Os1HE  METAL PRODUC    15.2        14.2              14.1
51 WnLECTRICAL MACH    15.5          U.9               11.0
62 ELECTRICAL MACHIDNE    1.2        10.1              11.7
U HOME ELECTRICAL AP    16.1         19.7              10.5
64 ELECTRONIC EWPE    1s.0           17.0              15.8
U  ELECTRICAL ECUIPUE    18.2        16.0              18.0
U  AUVOMUILES            10.1          10                19
ST VEHICLE PAMRS         18.4        18.2                18
U  TRANOT EJIRIMEN    18.5           12.0              15.1
-0 0      WWAIIACl IN   14.2         17.9              18.6
AVERUE                   15.1        U.1                 0.9
I/ prdut3e. we tos as of 1198.
2/ Uport July to 0.hfr 1198.
Surg: Beak eatl tee and SECOFI date.



- 94 -                       ANNEX VII
Page 13 of 14
TAML T: PODUCT1N-IcmET EXlORT Cg S  CEORITImE AS OF MLY 1W69 1,
Controls by   Cotrols     Control* du to  TOTAL
SECOFI      through Quots xport monopoll .
ActivIty                                  0.9. COMASUPO.Pam
1 ARICULTURE         0.0          5.6           0.0           5.0
I PSLTRY             0.0          2.1           0.0           2.1
8 FOFSTRY            0.0          0.0           0.0             0
4 F511   SEAOOD      0.0          0.0           0.0             0
CARBON DERIVAT      0.0          0.0           0.0             0
O PETWOEUMEXTRCT     0.0          0.0           0.1           0.1
7301 ORE             0.0          0.0           0.0             0
* NONETALLIC M110A   0.0          0.0           0.0             0
OCANTEAS             0.0          0.0           0.0             0
10 OT?M NONMETALLICS    0.0        0.0           0.0             0
11 MEAT & MILK         .2          0.0           8.4           5.6
12 FRUITS & VEGETABLE    0.0       0.0           0.0             0
i SMILLI  PRODUCTS    0.0          0.0           0.0            0
14MIXTOMALPRODCTS     0.0          0.8           0.0           0.8
15 COFFE PRODUCTS     0.0          1.0           0.0           1.0
1I REFI  SUAR         0.0          0.0           1.0             1
17 VEGETABLE OILS     0.0          0.0           0.0            0
10 ANIMAL FOODS       0.0          0.0           0.0             0
19 MSC. FOOD          0.8          0.9           0.0           1.2
S0 ALCOHOLIC EvUAM    0.0          0.0           0.0             0
i MALT  EVERAGES      0.0          0.0           0.0             0
22 NONALCOHOLIC BEVER    0.0       0.0           0.0             0
Ss TOCCO PRODUC       0.0          0.1           0.0           0.
24 SO  FIE PRODUCT    0.0          0.0           0.0             0
10 HR FIB  PRODUCT    0.0          0.0           0.0             0
, OTHER TEXTILES      0.0          0.0           0.0             0
APPAREL              0.0          0.0           0.0             0
2S LEATHER A SHOES    0.0          0.0           0.0             0
" SAILL PRODUCT       0.0          0.0           0.0             0
8o 016 Wm PRODOUCT    0.0          0.0           0.0             0
1 PAM A CARDBOARD     0.0          0.0           0.0             0
82 PRDINT             0.0          0.0           0.0             0
as PETROLEUM          0.0          0.0           1.0           1.0
84 BASIC PRXNEMICA    0.0          0.0           0.6           0.0
SBISIC CNEMICALS      0.0          0.0           0.0             0
80 ANRE & FETWILZE    0.0          0.0           0.0             0
SYNINETIC  SIB       0.0          0.0           0.0             0
u NMAMITCALS          0.0          0.0           0.0             0
s  APS,ETEAT a    0.0             0.0           0.0             0
o elm o MICAS         0.(          0.0           0.0             0
41 RUBR COS           0.0          0.0           0.0             0
41 PLASC PRODUCTS     0.0          0.0           0.0             0
48 LAMSS & LASSPROD    0.0         0.0           0.0             0
44 icT                0.0          0.0           0.0             0



ANNEX VII
-95~                             Page 14 of 14
TABLE 7: (eonVd)
46 OTHER NONMETALLICS    0.0           0.0            0.0               0
48 BASIC FERROUS META    1.?           0.0             0.0            1.7
47 BIASC NOEROUS 1    0.0              0.0            0.0               0
48 METAL FIRNITURE       0.1           0.0             0.0            0.1
49 STRUCTURAL SHAPES     0.1           0.0            0.0             0.1
50 OTHER  ETAL PIROUC    0.0           0.0            0.0               0
51 NONELECTRICAL MACH    0.0           0.0            0.0               0
52 ELECTRICAL MACHINE    0.0           0.0            0.0               0
SS HOME ELECTRICAL AP    0.0           0.0            0.0               0
54 ELECTRONIC EtJXPME    0.0           0.0            0.0               0
66 ELECTRICAL EWJIPME    0.0           0.0            0.0               0
6U AUTOMILES             0.0           0.0            0.0               0
57 VEHICLE PARTS         0.0           0.0            0.0               0
U8 TRANWORT EqUIPMEN    0.0            0.0            0.0               0
59 OTHEt IANUFACTURIN    0.0           0.0            0.0               0
AVEtAGE                  6.6          11.0            0.9            24.6
1/ The latest avallable production-welght ore oval lob,- for May 1#88 on the CCCN
toariff cleoslftcatlon. Thor. ore no eetlmots for the epo rt regim on the Harmonized System.
Sourco: Bank ostleates and SECOFI data.



Annex VIII
Page 1 of 3
ENTRY BARRIERS
1.      In addition to the specific subsectors which are governed by
programas de rama, there are a number of industrial sectors which are
protected against entry through various barriers. These barriers can be
broadly classified as followss
(i)      reservation of Istrategico or wpriority  subsectors to state
economic enterprises (SEEs);
(ii)     exclusion of majority owned DFI from a number of sectors (Section
III D in main report);
(iii)    protection of some subsectors exclusively for domestic firms; and
(iv)     reservation of some subsectors to the social sector.
These policies are inconsistent with the trade liberalization and
industrial modernization efforts of the authorities as well as the
need to maintain competitiveness and sustain export drive.
I.       Public Sector: Strategic or Priority Subsectors
2.       There are several subsectors which have been selected as priority
or strategic by the Government and thus are reserved for public sector
investment and development. This constitutes an effective barrier to entry
by the private sector, both domestic and foreign. These restrictions
retarded development of some subsectors in the past.
3.       There are also several other industries in which SEEs hold a
monopolistic or quasi-monopolistic position. These include, inter alia,
PEMEX in oil and gas and basic petrochemicals, FERTIMEX in fertilizers, and
a series of enterprises in agroindustry: Azucar S. A., sugar distribution;
IMECAFE, coffee trade, Tabamex, tobacco and CONASUPO, trade in basic
grains. In addition, basic infrastructure and service sectors such as
telephone and telecommunications, electricity, the railways and across the
border road transportation remain as the exclusive domain of SEEs.
4.       In a number of the above-noted cases, the monopolistic position of
an SEE in an industry has precluded dynamic expansion, technological
advancement, modernization and competitiveness of the industry as well as
the downstream industries linked to that sub-sector. For example, PEMEX's
monopoly position in basic petrochemicals has prevented a healthy growth of
the secondary petrochemical industry, in which Mexico has an obvious
competitive advantage. It has also promoted inefficient production
processes, since basic petrochemical production was delinked from secondary
products, as in amonia and urea production for fertilizers and vinyl
chloride monomer (VCM) and poly vinyl chloride (PVC) production. In
service sectors, such as telecoumunications, insufficient technological



Annex VIII
- 97 -                       Page 2 of 3
advancement has prevented time'.y and adequate introduction of improved
telephone services, of never comnunications services such as fax and of
satisfactory service levels for data communications.
5.      However, there has been a substantial progress in some subsectors
to liberalize ontry by private investors. For example, the petro:hemicals
program, Proprama Integral de Fomento a la Industria PetroQuimica, (SECOFI,
1986), narrows the list of petrochemicals defined as basic and thus
reserved for PEMEX, while also liberalizing trade in petrochemicals, also
previously reserved to PEKEx. Another example is the Government's decision
to liberalize the importation of basic grains and cotton previously under
the monopoly of CONASUPO and ALGODENERA respectively. Despite this
progress, significant barriers to entry still exist, meriting consideration
of an accelerated removal of such restrictions, leaving only the most
strategic areas such as oil and gas or natural monopolies in the exclusive
domain of state economic enterprises.
6.      There are emerging technology areas, which are presently reserved
for the public sector. The most notable example is biochemical technology
specified under the programa de rama for pharmaceutical products.
II.     Subsectors Reserved for National Firms
7.      A third barrier to entry is in subsectors reserved for or
conferring distinct preference on domestic firms. This is true in a number
of subsectors including secondary petrochemicals, pharmaceuticals and
autoparts. A significant example is the autoparts industry where
participating firms must have a 602 Mexican ownership. Again exceptions
have been made such as Cummings Engine and the Beidix Corporation, based on
provision of high technology and export contribution. Also a number of
foreign firms have been egrandfatbered' into the industry, as they were
established prior to the autoparts decree. Moreover, final goods producers
normally precluded from investing in the autoparts industry have been
granted exceptions to invest in the autoparts not produced in Mexico. The
production of engines by final good producers has resulted in $600 million
in exports in 1988. Nevertheless, the autoparts industry is becoming
tecbnologically uncompetitive and more transparent rules are needed to
allow DFI by important drivers of technology in segments of the industry to
further modernize and develop the sector.
III.    Subsectors Reserved for the Social Sector
8.      In specific cases, mostly in agriculture and fishing, subsectors
have been reserved for social sectors. In the case of the shrimp industry,
for example, one of Mexico's major exports, private fleets were
nationalized and state owned fleets were transferred to cooperatives.
Mexico is currently losing its export market share to countries in shrimp
farming or aquaculture. An important area of investment for the sector is
the successful development of commercial scale shrimp farms. The
Government has sponsored many such ventures through cooperatives and
eiidatarios. To date, these efforts have all failed. Shrimp farming is
capital and technology-intensive and best suited for private investment.
9.      A 1986 law preserves development of the Industry to the social
sectors. Another, though related issue, is security of land tenure for



Annex VIII
- 98 -                       Page 3 of 3
coumercial scale export development of fruits and vegetables. In the past,
authorities have expropiated land which has been successfully developed and
distributed it to the social sectors. This has resulted in a highly
fragmented growing industry in certain fruits and vegetables which would
benefit from commercial scale and dedicated export acreage. Also, there
should be improved coordination among government agencies, such as SECOFI
and the Secretariat for Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources (SARH), to
resolve policies which adversely affect industry. For example, sanitary
restrictions on cotton imports were used as a non-tariff barrier to protect
domestic growers. As a result, the textile industry in Mexico has skewed
its development to the use of synthetic fibers, while in world markets, at
present, premiums are paid to exports of products from natural fibers such
as cotton.
CONCLUSION
10.     Mexico's trade liberalization has not been complemented by parallel
domestic market deregulation measures. Entry barriers reduce competition.
the existence of parastatal monopolies in manufacturing and services
inhibits further industrial development. The social sector exclusivity
limits other areas of development, specifically mara-culture and agro-
Industries to the public sector. The existence of domestic monopolies in
*priority sectors, favoring domestic firms, also inhibits competition.
Mexico has started a sustained export drive based on trade liberalization.
This process has to be complemented by liberalizing the domestic regulatory
framework, which should include inter alia phasing out sectoral programs
over time and eliminating entry barriers to private firms, domestic and
foreign.



ANEX IX
Page 1 of 3
_ 99 _
ROAD TRMNSPORTATION
I. Background
1.       Around 70 percent of cargo is moved by truck in Mexico.
Industrial firms which do not invest in their own transport capacity rely
on the federal public trucking fleet (ATPF). The main element of the
regulatory framework, which was introduced forty years ago to ensure the
availability of service, consists of licensing selected trucking companies
to operate in pre-determined routes. However, this practice has led to
formation of a well-organized trucking cartel. The present legislation and
accompanying regulations favor incumbent truckers by restricting entry and
geographical movements in well-defined market segments; the legal framework
has severely limited competition in the sector. Direct contact between
users and truckers is prevented in many cases, in order to reduce the
possibility of negotiations which may result in undercutting the official
tariff rates. There are also restrictions on the provision of specialized
services (e.g. container transport). Expansion and improvement of
transport services for the industrial sector will require moderniza*ion of
trucking operations, including a substantial effort to lessen the legal
restrictions to entry and movement.
2.       The major regulatory issues concerning the sector include the
following:
(a) Concessions: Existing legislation is based on the view that
the Federal Government has a vital role to play in the
supervision of transport services provided by common
carriers, in addition to its role in planning and operating
the country's infrastructure. As a result, all freight
movements in the system operate either under a concession or
a permit, both issued by SCT. A concession allows a private
trucking firm to operate as a public carrier. The concession
holder must obtain an additional permit to transport regular
cargo. A different permit is issued to truckers to carry
goods classified as specialized cargo. New concessions, by
law, are given primarily to existing concession holders.
Consequently, entry to the industry is severely limited. The
administrative procedures .or determining the need for
additional service depend on the opinion of existing service
providers, which strengthens the cartel over time.
(b) Route Restrictions: For truckers authorized to carry regular
cargo, operations are confined to specified routes, defined
by SCT. In addition, every concession holder must affiliate
himself with others authorized to operate in the same
corridor, by forming joining companies for provision of
services. This practice limits competition. There are about
ten route corridors in the country, running mostly in a
north-south direction and regular concession holders must
remain within their corridors.



ANNEX IX
- 100-                       Page 2 of 3
(c) Freight center.. The creation of freight centers was
encouraged to facilitate cargo movements, to provide scale
economies in camon services to carriers and to create cost
savings for truckers (e.g., In large scale purchase of tires,
spare parts, etc.). However, these centers, with few
exceptions, promoted cartelization. This result stemmed from
establishing a number of requirements, for example, that
travel documents for cargo transport must be stamped and
approved by the freight center. This practice enables the
center to ensure that only eligible concession holders
operate in their assigned route corridor. Some freight
centers have adopted a roll call, first-come first-served
queueing system for truckers to be given access to cargo,
which has eliminated direct contact between truckers and
users. This has led to further problems for users who
receive service from inappropriate vehicles in terms of size.
capacity, age, design, driver's knowledge in handling their
products, etc. Practices of requiring documentation and roll
call have fulfilled the additional objective of ensuring that
all truckers stick to official tariffs and that no discounts
or special arrangements are agreed on between carriers and
users.
(d) Official tariffs. Trucking rates are fixed on a country-wide
basis by the General Directorate of Tariffs in SCT. All
regular cargo is classified into five rate categories.
Tariffs are not determined based on costs. Although they are
adjusted regularly, tariffs have recently been allowed to
decline in real terms. The tariff is legL.ly fixed and not
negotiable, but in practice some flexibility exists,
especially in the form of discounts for large and powerful
industrial users. SCT has chosen to given equal treatment to
all regions of the country in terms of trucking rates,
regardless of the unit costs of providing services, which
implies a policy of locational subsidies.
(e) Use of containers: Use of containers has increased recently
as one additional company was allowed to operate in addition
to the Empresa Mexicans de Transporte Multimodal (EMTN).
Further improvements are required. Container movements in
trucks are still restricted in each route to concessionaires
assigned by freight centers; containers imported under the
Temporary Import Regime of Customs may be used exclusively
for import and export cargo and must leave the country within
six months of their entry.
S.       The above regulations do not cover all cargo.  For example,
specialized cargo permit holders are not subject to any route restrictions.
The majority of licenses to transport specialized cargo apply to non-
processed agricultural products. Private own account trucking fleets of
industrial companies are also not subject to route restrictions, but they
may carry only their own cargo. Federal route restrictions do not apply to
a major metropolitan center. Hence, the existing restrictions in effect
apply to medium and long distance freight. Since inter-city bulk cargo
(e.g. grains, fertilizers) moves predominantly by rail, the main impact of
the federal trucking restrictions (i.e. poor service, high costs) falls on
the industrial sector.



ANNEX IX
Page 3 of-~3
- 101 -
4.       The current transport regulations favor increased Industrial
concentration and discriminate against small users. Large fims are
usually able to obtain better services, Including favorable terms and
conditions because of their ability to set up their own vehicle fleet if
service proves to be unsatisfactory. Small industrial firms, on the other
hand, are at a disadvantage, facing unreliable service.
5.       In addition to Industrial concentration, the current restrictive
transport regulations tend to reinforce the heavy geographical
concentration of industrial activity In Mexico City, with detrimental
economic, social and environmental effects. Most small firms operate
within the major metropolitan centers where relatively unrestricted
transport services are available. Mexico City and its suburbs, for
example, offer a large market where inputs and outputs may be moved with
relatively few restrictions. In addition, the system of route corridors is
very much centered on Mexico City; most of the corzidors actually have
Mexico City as an endpoint. To maintain control over transhipments
resulting from the need to cross route corridors, many companies (mainly
medium and large) have to establish Mexico City as their main distribution
center rather than initiating conmercial distribution from their
headquarters.
6.       The lack of facilities for container consolidation and
deconsolidation in major cities outside the capital affects mainly small
and medium size companies which generally operate with less than full
container loads, and slows their development, The imact of restrictions
on container movements and the resulting reluctance of exporters to make
maximum use of this technology adversely affects the development of
Mexico's manufacturing export potential.



- 102 -
Annex X
Page 1 of 3
FiRure 1
Manufocturing Industry
;9, Manufacturing IOP SicttI?on
26
24
22-
20 
15 
14
& 12
10
U
2
Hanufacturit~y  HIV            %I   ViI   MIl     D
hnduatty 0CasffIcaln uffillrS
Manufactu ing1dustr3t Clauaification
?Number         Industry
I         Food, Beverages, and Tobacco
II         Textile, Clothing, and Leather Goods
III         Wood snd Wood Products
IV         Paper, Printing and Publishing
V         Chemical Products
VI         Pon-Metallic Mineral Products
VII         Basic Metal Product Industries
VIII         Metal Products, Machinery and Equipment
IX         Otber Manufactures
Source: Staff estimates based on INEGI data



- 103 -
FiRure 2                               Annex X
Manufocturing  Industry  GDP                            Page 2 of 3
*la of '@h
'4.-
t2-
2.. 
10
-2 -
3  z7 :M 8-8 N'9 V            98I
Figure 3
.Manufactured Exports
so
Ia     v        I     vD      vt
60
Source:  Staff estit*9 based on SnEGl data.



- 104 -
Annex X
Figure 4                             Page 3 of 3
Exports and Imports 1987
3-
S~~~~~
4~~~~~
U~~~~~~
I3~~~~~,
I~~~~~~
2~P
houst'y OWssI      bar
Figure 5
Total Factor Productivity
(1931-100)
130 -
120-
180
so 
50 
40 
30 
20 
10 
fooz    TU *a       Pope       O*wol      bwe1     ~ wag Ptu
OZ   1933            1334              3 IO          13s6
Sourcet Staff estiates based on IW-I and 3anco de 1e4lic, date



