Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3087 ME
                   (Industry Sector Policy Loan)
                              between
                       UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 16, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3087 ME
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 1989, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES
(the Guarantor)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A)  The  Bank  has  received  two letters both dated
May 12, 1989 from the  Guarantor, such letters together describing
a program of actions, objectives  and policies designed to achieve
modernization of  the  Guarantor's  industrial  and  trade sectors
(hereinafter  called  the  "Program")  declaring  the  Guarantor's
commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and  requesting
assistance from the Bank in  the financing of imports and services
required during such execution;
     (B)  it  is  contemplated  that  the  Guarantor  may  require
assistance from the Bank in the implementation of a Debt Reduction
Plan;
     (C)  by  an  agreement  of   even  date  herewith  (the  Loan
Agreement) between the Bank and  Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.  (the
Page  2
Borrower), the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies  equivalent  to  five  hundred  million dollars
($500,000,000), on the terms and  conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but  only  on  condition  that  the  Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the  Borrower in respect of such loan
as provided in this Agreement and to undertake the obligations set
forth in this agreement;
     (D)  the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been satisfied as
to the  feasibility  and  priority  of  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2 to  the  Loan  Agreement,  have  requested  the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;
     (E)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided, in support of  the  Program  and  the Project, to provide
such assistance  to  the  Guarantor  by  making  the  loan  in two
tranches to the Borrower on the  terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS  the  Guarantor,  in   consideration  of  the  Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement  with the Borrower, has agreed so
to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of  the  Bank,  dated  January  1, 1985 (the
General Conditions), with the  modifications  set forth in Section
1.01 of the Loan  Agreement  constitute  an  integral part of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to  and  Section  1.02  of  the  Loan  Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
            Guarantee; Provision and Transfer of Funds
     Section 2.01. (a)  The  Guarantor  declares its commitment to
the objectives and the carrying  out  of  the Project set forth in
Schedule  2  to  the  Loan  Agreement  and  to  this  end, without
limitation or restriction upon any  of its other obligations under
the Guarantor  Agreement,  hereby  unconditionally  guarantees, as
primary obligor and not  merely  as  surety,  the due and punctual
payment of the principal  of,  and  interest and other charges on,
the Loan, and the premium, if  any, on the prepayment of the Loan,
and the punctual performance of  all  the other obligations of the
Borrower all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
     (b)  the  Guarantor   shall   enter   into   the  contractual
arrangements referred to  in  Section  3.01  of the Loan Agreement
and, except as the Bank  may  otherwise agree, shall not change or
fail to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall carry out Part B and, if so
determined under Section 3.05  of  the  Loan  Agreement, Part C of
the Project with due  diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity
with   appropriate   commercial,   administrative   and  financial
practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section  3.02.  (a)  The  Guarantor  and  the  Bank,  and the
Page  3
Borrower pursuant  to  Section  3.02  (a)  of  the Loan Agreement,
shall, on a  quarterly  basis  and  at  the  request of any party,
exchange views on the progress of carrying out the Program;
     (b)  At least ten days prior  to each such exchange of views,
the Guarantor, and the  Borrower  pursuant  to Section 3.02 (b) of
the Loan Agreement, shall furnish to  the Bank, for its review and
comment, a report  in  such  detail  as  the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
     Section 3.03.  The  Bank  and  the  Guarantor  agree that the
obligations set forth  in  Sections  9.04,  9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08
and 9.09  of  the  General  Conditions  (relating  respectively to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance  and  land  acquisition) shall be carried
out by the Guarantor in respect of Part B of the Project.
     Section  3.04.  Except  as  the  Bank  may  otherwise  agree,
procurement of goods and services  required for the Project and to
be financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
     Section 3.05. The  Guarantor  shall  provide,  or cause to be
provided, to the Borrower, all documents and records in respect of
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan required
to enable the Borrower  to  comply  with the provisions of Section
4.01 of the Loan Agreement.
     Section 3.06.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions of Section 2.01  (a)  of  this Agreement, the Guarantor
shall take all actions as  shall  be required for implementing the
provisions under Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The  Guarantor  shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, separate records  and  accounts adequate to reflect
in  accordance  with  consistently  maintained,  sound  accounting
practices, the resources and  expenditures  in  respect of Parts B
and C of the Project.
     (b)  The Guarantor shall:
         (i)   have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section for each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by independent and
               qualified auditors;
        (ii)   furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, a  certified  copy of the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
       (iii)   furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 5.01. The  Director  General  de Captacion de Credito
Externo  of  Secretaria  de  Hacienda  y  Credito  Publico  of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  4
     Section 5.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          Direccion General de Captacion
          de Credito Externo
          Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
          Palacio Nacional, Primer Patio, Mariano, 40.  Piso
          06066 Mexico, D.F.
          Mexico
                                             Telex:
                                                 1777313 SHDCME
     For the Bank:
          International Bank of
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C.  20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                   By /s/ Lic. Gustavo Petricioli
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                  Latin American and the Caribbean
