Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3087 ME
                   (Industry Sector Policy Loan)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                    NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                        Dated June 16, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3087 ME
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 1989 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA,
S.N.C. (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has  received two letters both dated May
12, 1989 from  the  UNITED  MEXICAN  STATES  (the Guarantor), such
letters together describing a  program  of actions, objectives and
policies designed  to  achieve  modernization  of  the Guarantor's
industry and  trade  sectors  (hereinafter  called  the "Program")
declaring the  Guarantor's  commitment  to  the  execution  of the
Program and requesting assistance  from  the Bank in the financing
of imports and services required during such execution;
     (B)  it  is  contemplated  that  the  Guarantor  may  require
assistance from the Bank in the implementation of a Debt Reduction
Plan (as hereinafter defined);
     (C)  the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been satisfied as
to the  feasibility  and  priority  of  the  Project  described in
Page  2
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project;
     (D)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  all  other obligations set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and
     (E)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided, in support of  the  Program  and  the Project, to provide
such assistance  to  the  Guarantor  by  making  the  Loan  in two
tranches to the Borrower on the  terms and conditions set forth in
this agreement.
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of  the  Bank,  dated  January  1, 1985 (the
General Conditions), with the  modifications  set forth below con-
stitute an integral part of this agreement:
    (a)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
              "(c) Not later  than  six  months  after the Closing
         Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
         between the Guarantor,  the  Borrower  and  the Bank, the
         Guarantor and the Borrower  shall  prepare and furnish to
         the Bank a joint report, of such scope and in such detail
         as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
         the Program  referred  to  in  the  Preamble  to the Loan
         Agreement, the  carrying  out  of  the  Project, the per-
         formance by the Guarantor,  the  Borrower and the Bank of
         their respective obligations under the Guarantee and Loan
         Agreements and the accomplishment  of  the purpose of the
         Loan."; and
     (b)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meaning therein set
forth  and  the  following  additional  terms  have  the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means the  Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
     (b)  "DFI" means  direct  foreign  investment,  investment by
foreign nationals or enterprises  in on-going business enterprises
established under  the  laws  of  the  Guarantor  and includes the
establishment of new enterprises in  Mexico in accordance with the
laws of the Guarantor by such foreign nationals or enterprises;
     (c)  "Plans of Action" means  the  following plans of action,
acceptable to the  Bank,  including  a  timetable for implementing
each such plan, provided to the Bank on May 15, 1989.
          (A)  to promote DFI;
          (B)  to facilitate the acquisition of foreign technology
               by revising  regulations  in  the  areas  of, inter
               alia,   registration   requirements   and   royalty
               payments;
          (C)  to orient the  activities  of the responsible agen-
               cies of the Guarantor  in promoting, developing and
Page  3
               coordinating technological development;
          (D)  to adopt measures for the import liberalization and
               deregulation of  the  automotive  and microcomputer
               sectors;
          (E)  to develop the petrochemical sector;
          (F)  to gradually eliminate QRs  and  reduce DCRs in the
               pharmachemical sector;
          (G)  to further liberalize the Guarantor's trade regime,
               including  improving  the  Guarantor's anti-dumping
               system;
          (H)  to implement the program to simplify administrative
               procedures published by the Guarantor;
     (d)  "DCRs" means domestic content requirements, requirements
established by the Guarantor  that  a specified percentage of pro-
ducts assembled in Mexico must  be  of parts or materials produced
in Mexico;
     (e)  "QRs"  means  quantitative  restrictions  placed  by the
Guarantor on imported goods;
     (f)  "Non-tariff Barriers"  means  any  form  of restriction,
other than the levy of a tariff, on imports, including QRs;
     (g)  "SHCP  Document"  means  the  document  prepared  by the
Guarantor's Secretaria  de  Hacienda  y  Credito  Publico entitled
"Mexico's Economic Strategy -  Past,  Present and Future" and sub-
mitted to the Bank on April 28, 1989;
     (h)  "Fiscal Year" means  the  fiscal  year of the Guarantor,
beginning on January 1 of each year; and
     (i)  "Debt Reduction  Plan"  means  a  plan  of the Guarantor
submitted to the Bank for  partial funding under this Agreement to
reduce the Guarantor's  principal  payments  on its external loans
from non-official creditors.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies equivalent to five hundred
million dollars ($500,000,000).
     Section 2.02. The amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for expenditures  made  or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made in respect  of  the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project  described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1990 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
Page  4
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
         (i)   "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
        (ii)   "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
       (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                Transfer of Funds; Other Covenants
     Section  3.01.  The  Borrower  shall  enter  into contractual
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Guarantor provid-
ing, inter alia, for  relending  the  proceeds  of the Loan to the
Guarantor on the same  terms  and  conditions  as are set forth in
Sections 2.04, 2.05, 2.06  and  2.07  of this Agreement. Except as
the Bank may otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall not change or
fail to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.
     Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower  and the Bank, and the Guaran-
tor pursuant  to  Section  3.02  (a)  of  the Guarantee Agreement,
shall, on a quarterly basis  and  at  the request of either party,
exchange views  on  the  progress  achieved  in  carrying  out the
Program.
     (b)  At least ten days prior  to each such exchange of views,
the Borrower, and the  Guarantor  pursuant  to Section 3.02 (b) of
the Guarantee Agreement, shall furnish  to the Bank for its review
and comment, a report in  such  detail  as the Bank may reasonably
request, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and  the Borrower agree that the obli-
gations set forth in  Sections  9.04,  9.05,  9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  respectively to insu-
rance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out by
the Guarantor in respect of Part B of the Project.
     Section 3.04. Except as  the  Bank  may otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds  of  the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.05.  Subject  to  agreement  by  the  Borrower, the
Guarantor and the Bank on  the  terms and conditions to be applied
in such case, the Borrower  may  use  a portion of the proceeds of
the loan as  provided  in  Schedule  1  to  this Agreement for the
implementation of  a  Debt  Reduction  Plan  under  Part  C of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
Page  5
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The  Borrower  shall  maintain, or cause to
be maintained, separate records  and accounts adequate to reflect,
in accordance with consistently  maintained sound accounting prac-
tices, the resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
         (i)   have the  accounts  referred  to  in  paragraph (a)
               above and its financial statements (balance sheets,
               statements  of  income  and  expenses  and  related
               statements),  for  each  fiscal  year  audited,  in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently applied, by  independent and qualified
               auditors;
        (ii)   furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year: (A) certified copies of such finan-
               cial statements so audited;  and  (B) the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably,
               requested; and
       (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing such records, accounts and financial statements
               and the audit thereof  as  the Bank shall from time
               to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
         (i)   maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
        (ii)   retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one
               year after the Bank  has  received the audit report
               for the fiscal  year  in  which the last withdrawal
               from  the  Loan  Account   was  made,  all  records
               (contracts, orders,  invoices,  bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
       (iii)   enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
        (iv)   ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal year,  together with the  proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event  is specified, namely
that a situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
Page  6
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.01 of this Agreement shall have been executed; and
     (b)  that the Guarantor shall have made substantial progress,
satisfactory to the Bank, in  obtaining adequate financing for its
requirements for Fiscal Years 1989 and  1990 in the context of its
adjustment program and growth targets as such requirements are set
forth in the SHCP Document.
     Section 6.02. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the  opinion or opinions to be furn-
ished to  the  Bank,  namely,  that  the  contractual arrangements
referred to in Section 3.01 of  this agreement have been duly exe-
cuted and delivered  on  behalf  of  the  parties  thereto and are
legally binding upon them in accordance with their terms.
     Section 6.03. The date September 19, 1989 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Director  Internacional  of the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C.  20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
              INTBAFRAD                            440098 (ITT)
              Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
                                                   64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Direccion Internacional
          Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
          Plaza NAFINSA, Insurgentes Sur 1971
          11© Piso, Torre Sur
          C.P. 01020 Mexico, D.F.
          Mexico
          Cable address:                      Telex:
              NAFIN                                NAFIME 1772 809
              Mexico City                                 1772 654
                                                   Mexico City
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  7
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                            RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                        NACIONAL FINANCIERA. S. N. C.
                        By /s/ Luis Nava
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated              % of
                          (Expressed in           Expenditures
   Category             Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Imported Goods          372,000,000         100% of foreign
     under Part A                                expenditures
     of the Project
(2)  Consultants'              3,000,000         100%
     services under
     Part B of the
     Project
(3)  Debt Reduction           125,000,000        To be agreed by
     Plan                                        the Bank, the
                                                 Guarantor and
                                                 the Borrower,
                                                 subject to
                                                 paragraph 6
                                                 below
                              ___________
     TOTAL                    500,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this  Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures  in  the  currency  of any country other
than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of  $100,000,000,  may be made in respect
of Category 1, on account of payments made for expenditures before
that date but after February 15, 1989;
     (b)  expenditures for goods,  in  respect  of Category 1, in-
cluded  in  the  following  SITC  groups  or  sub-groups,  or  any
successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC,
Page  8
as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
      Group          Sub-Group         Description of Items
      112               -              Alcoholic beverages
      121               -              Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                       tobacco refuse
      122               -              Tobacco, manufactured
                                       (whether or not containing
                                       tobacco substitutes)
      525               -              Radioactive and associated
                                       materials
      667               -              Pearls, precious and semi-
                                       precious stones, unworked
                                       or worked
      718            718.7             Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                       thereof, fuel elements
                                       (cartridges) non-
                                       irradiated for nuclear
                                       reactors
      897            897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                       platinum group metals
                                       (except watches and watch
                                       cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                       silversmiths' wares
                                       (including set gems)
      971               -              Gold, non-monetary
                                       (excluding gold ores and
                                       concentrates)
     (c)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;
     (e)  expeditures for crude oil, foodstuffs, or goods intended
for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption;
     (f)  expenditures for  goods,  the  importation  of  which is
subject to Non-tariff Barriers in Mexico.
4.   Subject  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  6  hereunder, no
withdrawal shall be made and  no  commitment shall be entered into
to pay amounts  to,  or  on  the  order  of,  the  Borrower or the
Guarantor  in  respect  of   expenditures  to  be  financed  under
Category 1 of the proceeds of  the Loan after the aggregate of the
proceeds of the  Loan  withdrawn  under  Category  1 from the Loan
Account and  the  total  amount  of  such  commitments  shall have
reached  the  equivalent  of  $250,000,000  under  Part  A  of the
Project, unless the Bank shall  be satisfied, after an exchange of
views as described  in  Section  3.02  (a)  of  this Agreement and
Section 3.02 (a)  of  the  Guarantee  Agreement  based on evidence
satisfactory to the Bank:
     (a)  with the progress achieved  by the Guarantor in carrying
out the Program;
     (b)  that the  Guarantor's  macroeconomic  framework  is con-
sistent with the Program;
     (c)  that the  Guarantor  has  continued  to make substantial
progress in obtaining  financing  for  its requirements for Fiscal
Years 1989 and 1990, and  over  the  medium term in the context of
Page  9
its adjustment program and growth targets as such requirements are
set forth in the SHCP Document;
     (d)  that the Guarantor has  (i)  completed the studies under
Part B of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank; (ii) discussed the results of such studies with the Bank and
provided a plan of  action  (including a timetable for implementa-
tion) acceptable to the Bank, for implementing the results of such
study; and
     (e)  that the Guarantor  has  progressed  in implementing the
Plans of Action including adopting all necessary measures for such
implementation; provided however, that in  no case shall any with-
drawal be made or any commitment be entered into in excess of such
aggregate amount of the equivalent  of  $250,000,000 for Part A of
the Project prior to November 30, 1989.
5.   If, after the  exchange  of  views  described  in paragraph 4
above, the Bank shall have  given  notice  to the Borrower and the
Guarantor that the  progress  achieved  and  actions taken are not
satisfactory and, within ninety  days  after such notice, the Gua-
rantor shall not have  achieved  progress and taken actions satis-
factory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the  Borrower
and the Guarantor, cancel the  unwithdrawn  amount of the  Loan or
any part thereof.
6.   If an agreement by the  Bank,  the Guarantor and the Borrower
for the use of the portion  of the proceeds of the Loan designated
for the implementation of  a  Debt  Reduction  Plan shall not have
been entered into by  December  13,  1989,  or  such later date as
approved by  the  Bank,  then  the  amount  of  $125,000,000 under
Category  3  shall,  at  the  request  of  the  Borrower  and  the
Guarantor, be reallocated to Category 1 for Part A of the Project.
7.   The provisions of this Schedule  are without prejudice to the
provisions of Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to assist the Guarantor in
carrying  out  the  modernization  of  its  industrial  and  trade
sectors,  and,  if  so  determined   under  Sector  3.05  of  this
Agreement, in the implementation of a Debt Reduction Plan.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Imports
     Financing of imported goods  required during the execution of
the Program.
Part B:   Technical Assistance and Studies
     Carrying out studies:
     (a)  to further promote and liberalize DFI;
     (b)  on major problems  and  constraints to technology devel-
opment,  including:  (i)  improving  the  system  of  intellectual
protection of industrial property;  (ii) determining the merits of
compulsory expenditures  on  research  and  development to promote
technology; and (iii)  advancing  patent  protection for chemicals
and petrochemicals to promote technology;
     (c)  to  identify  factors   impairing  inter-industry  labor
mobility;
     (d)  to determine methods  for  establishing  a sound pricing
Page  10
policy in the pharmaceutical  sector, and to establish appropriate
standards and procedures for such sector;
     (e)  on the  international  competitiveness  of the microcom-
puter sector;
     (f)  on the elimination  of  voluntary  export quotas and the
introduction of an auction  system  for the allocation of involun-
tary export quotas;
     (g)  on  the  automotive  sector  including  Mexico's  inter-
national competitiveness in the industry and the regulatory frame-
work for environmental and safety standards;
     (h)  on the regulations  relating  to unfair trade practices;
and
     (i)  on the regulatory  environment  for trucking services in
order to  establish  a  comprehensive,  consistent and enforceable
program to improve competition and efficiency.
Part C:   Debt Reduction Plan
     Assistance to the Guarantor  in  the implementation of a Debt
Reduction Plan which, in the judgement of the Guarantor and of the
Bank, shall meet the  requirements  of  the Bank's support of debt
reduction.
                             * * * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1989.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15, 1995 and August 15
     beginning February 15, 1995
     through February 15, 2006                    20,835,000
On August 15, 2006                                20,795,000
__________________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                        The  interest   rate  (ex-
                                        pressed  as  a  percentage
                                        per  annum)  applicable to
                                        the  Loan  on  the  day of
                                        prepayment, multiplied by:
     Not more than three years                     0.18
         before maturity
     More than three years but                     0.35
         not more than six years
Page  11
         before maturity
     More than six years but                       0.65
         not more than eleven years
         before maturity
     More than eleven years but not                0.88
         more than fifteen years
         before maturity
     More than fifteen years                       1.00
         before maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the procurement of  goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000  or  more  each  shall be awarded through
international competitive  bidding  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefore
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such advertisements should be  placed  in  at least one news-
     paper of general circulation  in  the Borrower's country and,
     in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
         (i)   a notice in the  United Nations publication, Devel-
               opment Forum, Business Edition; or
        (ii)   an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical journal  of  wide  international circula-
               tion; or
       (iii)   a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
               "As a  further  alternative,  bidding documents may
           require the bidder to state  the  bid price in a single
           currency widely used in  international trade and speci-
           fied in the bidding documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Contracts for goods estimated to  cost the equivalent of less
than $5,000,000 shall  be  awarded:  (a)  for  private sector pur-
chasers on the basis of  established commercial practices; and (b)
for public sector purchasers  on  the basis of governmental proce-
dures.
Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  12
1.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in Part A of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of  the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in  respect of such contract, two con-
formed copies of such contract,  together with the analysis of the
respective bids and  recommendations  for  award, a description of
the advertising and tendering  procedures  followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in Part B of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of  the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documentation
and information as  the  Bank  may  reasonably  request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
3.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not
apply to contracts on  account  of  which  the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan  Account  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure. Such contracts shall  be  retained in accordance with
Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
4.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Guarantor  in  carrying out Part B of
the Project, the Guarantor shall employ consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms  and  conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles  and  procedures  satisfactory   to the
Bank on the basis of the  "Guidelines  for the Use of  Consultants
by World Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World  Bank  as  Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
