Page  1
                                                November 8, 1989
Lic.  Juan Jose Paramo
Director General, NAFIN, S.N.C. Plaza NAFINSA, Insurgentes Sur 1971
llo.  Piso, Torre Sur
C.P. 01020, Mexico, D.F. Mexico
            Re:   Loan 3087-ME (Industry Sector Policy Loan)
                  Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Mr. Paramo:
            Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated June 16, 1989
for the above-referenced Loan (the Loan Agreement) between the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower), and to the Guarantee
Agreement of even date between the United Mexican States (the
Guarantor) and the Bank.
            In response to your request and the discussions between
our respective representatives, we are pleased to inform you that
the.Bank agrees to amend the Loan Agreement to include cofinancing
with the Export Import Bank of Japan.
            Accordingly, the Bank proposes hereby to amend the Loan
Agreement as follows:
1.          The Preamble to the Loan Agreement is amended by
deleting the word "and" at the and of paragraph (D) thereof,
relettering paragraph (E) as paragraph "(F)" and inserting the
following new paragraph (E) thereto:
            "(E) the Borrower intends to contract from the
            Export-Import Bank of Japan (EXIMBANK) a loan (the
            EXIMBANK Loan) in an amount equivalent to three hundred
            million dollars ($300,000,000) to assist in financing
            imports required during the execution of the Program on
            the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
            EXIMBANK Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
            Borrower and EXIMBANK, such EXIMBANK Loan to be
            guaranteed by the Guarantor pursuant to an agreement
            between the Guarantor and EXIMBANK (the EXIMBANK
            Guarantee Agreement); and".
2.          Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement is amended in its
entirety to read as follows:
            "Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
            General Conditions, the following additional events are
            specified:
      (a)   that a situation has arisen which shall make it
            improbable that the Program, or a significant part
            thereof, will be carried out;
      (b)   the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement shall have failed to become
            effective by November 30, 1989, or such later date as
            the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the
            provisions of this paragraph shall .not apply if the
            Borrower and Guarantor establish to the satisfaction of
            the Bank that adequate funds for the Program are
            available from other sources on terms and conditions
            consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
            this Agreement and the Guarantor under the Guarantee
            Agreement; and
Page  2
      (c)   (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
            (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                  proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower for the
                  financing of the Program shall have been
                  suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                  part, pursuant to the terms of the EXIMBANK Loan
                  Agreement, or the Guarantor shall have suspended,
                  cancelled or terminated in whole or in part its
                  guarantee of the EXIMBANK Loan pursuant to the
                  terms of the EXIMBANK Guarantee Agreement, or
            (B)   the EXIMBANK Loan shall have become due and
                  payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
            if the Borrower and the Guarantor establish to the
            satisfaction of the Bank that:
            (A)   such suspension, cancellation termination or
                  prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower or the Guarantor to perform any of their
                  respective obligations under such agreements; and
            (B)   adequate funds for the Project are available to
                  the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                  conditions consistent with the obligations of the
                  Borrower under this Agreement and the Guarantor
                  under the Guarantee Agreement."
          Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing amendment
by signing and dating the duplicate original of this letter enclosed
herewith and returning the same to us.
          This amendment shall take effect as of the date of this
letter upon receipt by the Bank of the countersigned copy.
          Because of their interest in the matter, a copy of this
letter is being sent to Licenciado Jose Angel Gurria Trevino at
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico of the Guarantor.
                         Very truly yours,
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Kye Woo Lee
                          Acting Director
                       Country Department II
                  Latin America and the Caribbean
CONFIRMED
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
By /s/ Authorized Representative
Date November 30, 1989
cc:   Lie.  Jose Angel Gurria Trevino
      Subsecretario de Asuntos Financieros Internacionales
      Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
      Palacio Nacional, Primer Patio Mariano
      4to.  Piso, Oficina 4037
      Centro 06066, Mexico, D.F.
      Mexico
Page  3
