Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7243-SV 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(OECS Education Development Project) 
 
between 
 
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 
 
and  
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 28, 2004 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7243-SV 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated September 28, 2004, between ST. VINCENT AND THE 
GRENADINES (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS  (A)  the Executive Directors of the Bank approved on May 15, 2002 
the OECS Education Development Program estimated to cost the amount of $60 million 
over a period of 9 years;  
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in financing the Project; 
(C) 
the Borrower has delivered to the Bank a letter dated May 19, 2004, 
describing the Borrower’s education development policy, and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Project in accordance with such policy; 
 
(D) 
the Borrower has also requested the International Development 
Association (the Association) to provide additional financial assistance towards financing 
the Project and, by the development credit agreement of the same date herewith between 
the Borrower and the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), the Association 
is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to two 
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR2,200,000) (the Credit);  
 
(E) 
the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the Credit be disbursed on account of expenditures for the Project before 
disbursements of the proceeds of the loan provided for in this Agreement (the Loan) are 
made; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
 “EC Dollars” and “EC$” mean the lawful currency of the Borrower; 
(b) 
“Education Project Steering Committee” means the committee referred 
to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement; 
(c) 
“EPMU” means the education project management unit, referred to in 
Section 3.04(a)(ii) of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Extracurricular Activities” means any activity promoted by secondary 
level students which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as 
hereinafter defined), for the improvement of quality education, development of leadership 
potential, positive values and mutual self-esteem among students; 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and the acronym “FMR” mean each 
report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Master Teacher Program” means a program created by MEYS (as 
hereinafter defined) to provide incentives for exemplary teachers, creating opportunities 
for said teachers to transfer knowledge, teaching styles and general good practices to 
other teachers, through participation in induction programs for new teachers, mentoring 
and training; 
(g) 
“MFPD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, Planning and 
Development or any successor thereto;  
Page  4
-
3
-
(h) 
“MEYS” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education, Youth and 
Sports, or any successor thereto; 
(i) 
“OECS” means the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States; 
(j) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.01(b) of 
this Agreement; 
(k) 
 “PCU” means the project coordination unit maintained within the 
MFPD, for the purposes referred to in Section 3.04 (a) (i) of this Agreement; 
(l) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan dated May 
21, 2004, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
(m) 
“Professional Development Grant” means grants, made through a 
program to be developed under the Project, to selected teachers for the carrying out of 
studies and research; 
(n) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement;  
(o) 
“Secondary Education” means the education services provided in the 
Borrower’s territory for forms one to five (corresponding to the seventh to eleventh 
grades of schooling); 
(p) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(q) 
“Supplemental Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the monitoring and evaluation indicators for the 
Project.  
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to three 
million one hundred thousand Dollars ($3,100,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and the premia referred to in Section 2.09 (c) of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 30, 2008 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.  
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to, but not including, the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
Page  6
-
5
-
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
Page  7
-
6
-
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each two 
consecutive Interest Periods shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV 
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through MEYS, with the assistance of the PCU and the EPMU, all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate educational, technical, 
administrative, financial, social and environmental standards and practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an operational manual (the 
Operational Manual), satisfactory to the Bank, containing  detailed procedures for the 
implementation of the Project, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
the organization and staffing of the PCU and the EPMU; 
(ii) 
the roles and responsibilities of the PCU and EPMU and flow of 
funds arrangements when applicable; 
(iii) 
the financial management procedures for the Project; 
(iv) 
standard bidding documents and letters of invitation to 
consultants; 
(v) 
mandatory safeguards and mitigation actions for the 
construction, rehabilitation and expansion of secondary schools, 
which safeguards and actions shall be applied to prevent or 
mitigate any possible negative environmental impact said 
construction may otherwise cause, such as, in particular, increase 
in deforestation, pollution of groundwater, negative impacts on 
endangered species, increased soil erosion, and encroachment on 
natural habitats; 
Page  8
-
7
-
(vi) 
the annual action plan for the first year of Project 
implementation;  
(vii) 
details and procedures for the Professional Development Grants, 
including:  (A) criteria for the selection of eligible teachers; (B)  
activities that may be financed with Professional Development 
Grants; and (C) detailed guidelines and formats for preparing, 
evaluating and approving grant proposals; and 
(viii)  details and procedures for the Extracurricular Activities, 
including: (A) type of Extracurricular Activities that may be 
financed; and (B) detailed guidelines and formats for preparing, 
evaluating and approving Extracurricular Activities.  
(c) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, 
waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual or any provision thereof.  In case of any 
conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Operational Manual, 
the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consulta
nts’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.   
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 above, the 
Borrower shall make available an amount in EC Dollars equivalent to two million five 
hundred thousand Dollars ($2,500,000) as counterpart funds for the Project. To that 
effect, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the 
Project, an account (the Project Account) in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank, with an initial deposit of four hundred thousand Dollars 
($400,000) equivalent made on or prior to the Effective Date, and a second deposit of six 
hundred thousand Dollars ($600,000) equivalent made on or before January 31, 2005. 
Section 3.04.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain, during implementation of the 
Project: 
(i) 
a Project coordination unit (the PCU) within the MFPD, with 
functions, staff and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, for 
Page  9
-
8
-
the purposes of: (A) processing of documentation required for 
disbursement of the Loan and Credit proceeds; (B) the 
procurement of goods, works and services under the Project; and 
(C) preparation and maintenance of the records, accounts and 
financial statements referred to in Article IV of this Agreement; 
and 
(ii) 
an education project management unit (the EPMU), with 
functions, staff and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, for 
the purposes of: (A) coordination and implementation of the 
Project; and (B) monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
 (b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
ensure that the PCU is at all times staffed with at least a PCU 
coordinator, a procurement specialist, a financial management 
specialist, a procurement assistant, a financial management 
assistant and an administrative assistant;  
(ii) 
ensure that the EPMU is at all times staffed with at least a 
Project coordinator, a Project manager, and administrative 
assistant; and 
(iii) 
ensure that both the PCU and the EPMU are provided with 
adequate facilities, satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out their 
responsibilities. 
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.06.  Without limitation on the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall: 
Page  10
-
9
-
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Supplemental Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than six months after the Effective Date and annually thereafter during 
the period of Project implementation, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank not later than two months after the date of such 
report, or such later date as the Bank shall request, each report referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recomme
ndations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall appoint and maintain during Project 
implementation the Education Project Steering Committee with representation acceptable 
to the Bank, for purposes of providing guidance in the coordination and implementation 
of the Project. 
Section 3.08. 
For the purposes of implementing Part A.1 of the Project and 
prior to commencing works under said Part A.1, the Borrower shall complete the 
construction of a bridge and an access road in order to permit access to the site from the 
nearest main road, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
Page  11
-
10
-
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
Page  12
-
11
-
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the Project Account has been opened and an initial amount in EC Dollars 
of at least four hundred thousand Dollars equivalent ($400,000) has been deposited 
therein;  
(b) 
the Operational Manual has been approved by the Bank and adopted by 
the Borrower;  
(c) 
the PCU and the EPMU have been fully staffed;  
(d) 
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement have 
been appointed; and  
(e) 
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development Credit 
Agreement, other than those relating to the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been 
fulfilled. 
Page  13
-
12
-
Section 5.02. The date, December 27, 2004, is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance, Planning and Development of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Development 
P.O. Box 608, Kingstown 
St. Vincent and the Grenadines 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(784) 456-2430
 
For the Bank:  
 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development  
1818 H Street, N.W.  
Washington, D.C. 20433  
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or  
Facsimile: 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 
 
By /s/ Ellsworth John 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Badrul Haque 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan and Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan and the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in 
each Category: 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Amount of the Credit 
% of 
 
Allocated Allocated 
Expenditure 
to 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars
)
(Expressed in SDRs
)
be Financed
(1) Works 
 
 
 
 
(a)  Under Part A.1 of 
1,110,000 
770,000 
65% 
the Project 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Other  
330,000 
245,000 
65% 
 
(2) Goods  
490,000 
345,000 
100% of 
 
foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
80%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ Services 
580,000 
400,000 
100% of 
 
foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
70%
of local 
 
expenditures
 
(4) Training 
370,000 
260,000 
95% 
 
(5)  Goods and services 
50,000 
40,000 
80% 
 
under Extracurricular  
 Activities 
 
 
 
 
(6)  Premia for Interest 
-0- 
 
Amount due 
 
Rate Caps and 
 
 
under Section  
 
Interest Rate Collars 
 
 
2.09 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
Page  16
-
15
-
Amount of the Loan 
Amount of the Credit 
% of 
 
Allocated Allocated 
Expenditure 
to 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars
)
(Expressed in SDRs
)
be Financed
(7) Fee  
31,000 
 
Amount due 
 
under Section 
 
2.04
of
this 
 
Agreement 
 
(8) Unallocated 
139,000 
140,000 
 
 
________ ________ 
 
TOTALS 3,100,000
2,200,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country 
from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency 
for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and 
 
(c) 
the term “training” means expenditures (other than those for consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Borrower to finance reasonable transportation cost and 
per diem
 
of trainees, tuition for international or distance programs, and rental of training facilities, 
equipment and materials for the carrying out of the Project training activities under its 
responsibility. 
3.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: (a) expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $600,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (5) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures 
within twelve months before that date but after May 1, 2004; and (b) expenditures under 
Category (1) (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, until the 
construction of the bridge and access road referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement 
has been completed. 
Page  17
-
16
-
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures for: (a) goods, works 
and services under contracts which are not subject to prior review under the Procurement 
Plan; (b) training; and (c) Extracurricular Activities. 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to increase equitable access to Secondary 
Education; (b) to improve quality and efficiency of Secondary Education; and (c) to 
strengthen the institutional capacity of the Borrower’s educational sector. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time, to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A
:
Increase Equitable Access
1. 
Construction and equipping of a new secondary school in 
Belair
.
2. 
Rehabilitation and expansion of about four secondary schools. 
  
Part B
:
Improve Quality
1.  Upgrading of teacher skills and standards, 
through: (a) the carrying out of a survey of the teaching 
system to determine priority skills areas and training 
needs for improvement; (b) the development and 
implementation of a screening system for the hiring of 
new teachers and the review of the teaching career 
path; (c) the provision of in-service pedagogical training 
for certification of graduate and non-graduate teachers; 
(d) the provision of Professional Development Grants to 
eligible teachers; and (e) the carrying out of the Master 
Teacher Program. 
2.  Reviewing and updating of the Secondary 
Education curriculum, through: (a) the development of a 
Page  19
-
18
-
national curriculum policy; (b) the development of a 
national assessment policy; (c) the development of 
curriculum guides for the first three years of Secondary 
Education, including guides on geography, history, 
creative and performing arts, and modern languages; 
and (d) the establishment of a National Curriculum 
Advisory Committee. 
3. 
Improvement of the literacy levels of students, 
through: (a) the provision of specialized training in 
literacy to teachers; (b) the establishment of a resource 
center for teachers and literacy, curriculum and 
education officers; (c) establishment or upgrading of 
library information centers in rural schools and the 
setting up of classroom libraries in low performing 
primary schools; and (d) the provision of training to 
uncertified secondary school library assistants. 
4. 
Improvement of student support services, through: 
(a) the provision of specialized training to guidance 
officers to enable them to provide guidance and training 
to secondary school students; (b) the provision of 
training and resource materials to enable certain 
students to provide counseling and mentoring to other 
students; (c) the provision of training and resource 
materials for parents to help them provide the 
necessary support to their children; (d) the development 
and implementation of a student-led Extracurricular 
Activities program; and (e) the provision of training to 
teachers to provide academic enrichment and support 
to selected students. 
Page  20
-
19
-
Part C
:
Strengthen Management and Governance
Provision of support for the Borrower’s efforts to improve the level and 
efficiency of supervision and management activities at the school level, through: (i) the 
provision of training to school principals and members of school boards on the 
preparation and use of school development plans; (ii) the provision of technical assistance 
for the strengthening of the existing legal framework governing the education sector; and 
(iii) the provision of technical assistance to carry out management strengthening activities 
to benefit MEYS. 
Part D:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, training and purchase of necessary equipment 
for the strengthening of the PCU and EPMU. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
Beginning August 15, 2009 through August 15, 2020 
 
       4.17% 
 
On February 15, 2021 
 
       4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Page  22
-
21
-
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.   
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Section I, 
paragraphs 3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to, the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement method or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meaning ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services
)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding.  
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract  
and works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Page  24
-
23
-
Section III
.
Particular Method
s
of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B: Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Consultant’s Qualifications. 
2. 
Least Cost Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-Cost Selection. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to Individual Consultants.  Under the circumstances described in 
paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual 
consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review, in accordance with Appendix 1 of the Procurement and Consultant 
Guidelines. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for  the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $600,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account (which for the purposes of this Schedule also includes 
the Credit Account referred to in the Development Credit Agreement), and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the 
amount of $300,000, until the Bank determines based on the amounts and frequencies of 
withdrawal applications that a higher balance is necessary. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  26
-
25
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  27
-
26
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the  
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
