Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB452 
Project Name 
St. Vincent: OECS Education Development 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Secondary education (45%);Tertiary education (20%);Central 
government administration (20%);Sub-national government 
administration (15%) 
Project ID 
P086664 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF ST. VINCENT & GRENADINES 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
Ministry of Finance and Planning; Ministry of Education 
P.O. Box 608 
St. Vincent and the Grenadines 
 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [X] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
April 15, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 5, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
June 15, 2004 
 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
The Government of St. Vincent and the Grenadines (GOSVG) seeks to improve the access, 
quality and efficiency of its education system. Given the small size of the country and significant 
financial support from external funding agencies, the country has been afforded the opportunity 
to address challenges at all levels. Its Education Sector Development Plan (ESDP, 2002 to 2007) 
has established the following key educational goals that drive the reform process: 
\01 
A well managed, effective and efficient education system, based on national policies of 
inclusion and transparency; 
\01 
Access for a pre-primary cohort to quality early childhood education; 
\01 
Improved standards of achievement and provision of primary education for all; 
\01 
Universal access to 5-year comprehensive secondary education and an integrated effective 
post-secondary education system;  
\01 
Appropriate opportunities for continuing education throughout adulthood and  
\01 
A fully trained and high quality teaching force. 
 
To achieve the education policies’ objectives, the country has committed a high share of public 
resources to the sector. The 2003 education budget comprised 7.7% of GDP and 16.9% of total 
Government expenditures.  
 
Though the GOSVG has garnered considerable external funding to support the education sector, 
insufficient coordination between the Ministry of Education (MEYS) and the Education Planning 
Page  2
 
 
Unit which reports to the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MFPED), 
coupled with poor tracking and management of the different funding inputs, have severely 
limited their impact on the achievement of the country’s education sector goals. In spite of 
significant sector spending, education indicators show SVG as the weakest performer among the 
countries of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) (“
Monitoring Educational 
Performance in the Caribbean
”, E. Di Gropello, April 2003):
 
(i) a smaller share of children 
attend early childhood education; (ii) around 15% of a cohort leave school without a diploma; 
(iii) only 45 percent continued to general secondary education in 2001 (has increased with 
construction of temporary classrooms); (iv) secondary enrolment (63% in 2003), combined with 
high repetition (10.5% in 2002) and drop out, results in low secondary school completion rates 
(70% in 2003) and (iv) only 5% enter tertiary education.  
 
SVG sector issues are similar to those in the OECS region, though more accentuated. They 
include: (i) inefficient investments to the sector; (ii) inequitable access to education, especially 
for boys and for children from low-income households; (iii) uneven distribution of resources; 
(iv) poor quality of education and (v) weak governance of the sector and the schools. 
 
Government Initiatives
 
To meet the immediate need for secondary school places, the GOSVG built temporary 
classrooms in 2003 for an additional 500 students, and 500 more places will be provided in 2004. 
This measure, along with the construction of three new schools under donor-funded projects, 
should assist the GOSVG in achieving enough spaces for universal secondary enrollment.  
 
As the universal secondary education policy is applied, there will be a heavy influx of additional 
students. The Common Entrance Exam (CEE), which currently regulates the flow of students 
from primary to secondary school, will be abolished and the senior primary schools (current low-
level alternative for students who do not pass the CEE) will be closed. Thus even the lowest 
performing pupils from primary education would enter secondary school. This poses a sizable 
challenge and has generated great concern among teachers and principals. The MEYS has taken 
three important steps to assist schools. First, they are hiring guidance officers for secondary 
schools to work with low performing and at-risk students. Secondly, they plan to train teachers in 
the early detection and management of learning difficulties. Third, to improve school quality, the 
GOSVG has embarked on two initiatives: (i) they are working to increase the relevance of the 
lower secondary school curriculum in coordination with the countries in the OECS region 
(initiative led by the OECS Education Reform Unit-OERU) and (ii) the GOSVG has elaborated a 
plan to decrease the number of uncertified teachers in the system, leading to a certification level 
of 90 to 95% by 2007. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
One of the key goals of the OECS countries is to achieve greater synergy in regional approaches 
to education sector issues. In this regard, the project supports key elements of the GOSVG’s 
sector plan to bring them in line with neighboring states. This program is developed with 
participation from the UK’s Department for International Development (DFID) and is 
coordinated with other main donors for the education sector in the region, including the 
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) and the European Commission (EC). The activities 
Page  3
 
 
proposed under this program are supported by current initiatives from several regional 
institutions: (i) the OERU's work on curriculum harmonization; (ii) the Caribbean Examination 
Council's (CXC) work on evaluation and standards and (iii) the UNESCO regional office's 
initiative on education statistics (Caribbean Regional Educational Management Information 
System - CREMIS). In addition, the project is in line with Bank and regional policies. 
 
The project objectives will be achieved by: (i) increasing equitable access to secondary 
education; (ii) improving the quality of the teaching and learning process, with more direct 
interventions and provision of resources at the school level, a focus on student-centered learning 
and mechanisms to provide student support, and (iii) strengthening management of the sector and 
governance of schools.
  
 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank has taken a sub-regional approach to work with the small OECS countries. A 
horizontal multi-country APL program was established in 2002 to offer continued support to the 
sub-region’s education sector with a focus on improving quality and access at the secondary 
level. The APL program was approved by the Board of Directors in FY02 for St. Lucia and St. 
Kitts and Nevis. Grenada joined the program in FY03, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines 
(SVG) are now preparing their project, tailored to the country’s needs. The Bank brings the 
experience of preparation and implementation of the first two APL phases, along with many 
background studies to assist SVG, and this experience has sped up the preparation process. 
 
The Bank has a standing commitment to provide financial and technical assistance to the 
Caribbean region and an ongoing relationship with the ministries of education. A collaborative 
approach has yielded increased cooperation between the Bank and the countries, and among the 
OECS countries. The Bank introduced an Education Knowledge Management Network as a tool 
for fostering continued collaboration and has provided ongoing technical assistance to the 
regional OECS Education Reform Unit (OERU) to assume responsibility for an expanded 
EKMN. This initiative has garnered interest and funding from other international donors and 
regional ministries and will provide a forum for continued sharing of sector work and data across 
the region. The Bank also participated in the Caribbean Education Task Force to establish a 
regional strategy and is knowledgeable about regional sector issues.  
 
4. Description 
 
The project description has been developed by the stakeholder working groups and presented by 
the GOSVG. The proposed project content is founded in the ESDP and takes into consideration 
the areas covered by other donor funding 
.
   
 
Component 1. Increase equitable access
. Absolute enrolment in secondary has experienced a 
yearly increase of 1.3% between 1993 and 2003 and should continue to grow markedly to 2010, 
experiencing a peak between 2005 and 2007. There is a long-term need for 1,800 additional 
places in secondary to achieve universal coverage within the next five to seven years. Based on 
results from a recent school mapping exercise and building analysis, the project will support:  
1.1. the construction of a new school in Belair, in the largest census district of Calliaqua, and 
1.2. the rehabilitation of three secondary schools. 
Page  4
 
 
 
Page  5
 
 
Component 2. Improve quality
.  
2.1 
Upgrading of teacher skills and standards
. A recently adopted teacher appraisal system will 
be instrumental for evaluation and continuous assessment of teacher performance and will guide 
the activities for this subcomponent, which will finance: (i) an audit of the teaching system; (ii) 
the development and implementation of a screening system for new entrants to the teaching 
force; (iii) the provision of certificate-level in-service training for uncertified graduate and non-
graduate teachers in content and methodology and (iv) the establishment of professional 
development grants and a Master Teacher program for exemplary teachers. 
 
2.2 
Curriculum development for Forms I to III.
 This will support ongoing efforts in SVG to 
review and update the lower secondary curriculum, in line with the ESDP, and will complement 
ongoing sub-regional work by the OERU. This sub-component aims to: (i) develop a national 
curriculum policy; (ii) complete the national assessment policy (done for the primary level but 
not for secondary); (iii) develop curriculum guides for the first three years of secondary 
education in key subject areas and (iv) establish a National Curriculum Advisory Committee. 
 
2.3 
Literacy enrichment and support
.  The project will improve students’ literacy levels through: 
(i) specialized literacy training for teachers in diagnosis, concepts and methodology; (ii) 
establishment of a literacy resource centre for teachers and curriculum officers; (iii) 
establishment of learning resource centers in rural secondary schools and classroom libraries in 
low-performing primary schools and (iv) training of secondary school library assistants.   
 
2.4 
Improved student support services
. This will include: (i) specialized training for guidance 
officers; (ii) training and resource materials for student peer counselors and mentors; (iii) 
training and resource materials for parents to help them provide necessary support to their 
children; (iv) student-led extra-curricular activities, targeting boys especially and (v) training of 
remedial teachers to provide support to selected students.  
 
Component 3. Strengthen management and governance
. This component is key to the 
achievement of the project and sector objectives. At this stage, the Government has identified 
need for
 
technical assistance to: (i) develop an appropriate legal and regulatory framework for 
the operations of the MEYS, establishing the foundation for adequate governance and 
management of the education system; (ii) train school principals, parents and teachers to design 
and carry out school development plans and (iii) improve and expand the EMIS and upgrade the 
staff database and the integration of this information in the EMIS. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: (US$m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 3.2 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
4.0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
4.0 
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT (DFID) 
0.8 
 Total 
12.0 
 
Page  6
 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The proposed project will be implemented by the Ministry of Education (MEYS) with 
administrative assistance from a Centralized Project Management Unit (CPMU) in the Ministry 
of Planning, Finance and Economic Development (MFPED). The CPMU has been established to 
coordinate all the externally financed projects for the education sector. Since the Education 
Planning Unit (EPU) previously was responsible for managing several of the projects, the 
proposed arrangement will allow the EPU to focus exclusively on monitoring, evaluation and 
long-range planning. This should improve the coordination of sector inputs and the resulting 
impact. 
 
The CPMU will be responsible for managing all the donor-funded education projects. The 
CPMU will be positioned in a viable working relationship between the Ministries of Education 
and Finance, whereby the CPMU will be accountable to the MFPED, but there is a dual reporting 
function to the Directorate of the MEYS. For this proposed project, the CPMU will handle the 
administrative aspects of the project, while an existing PMU in the MFPED, currently managing 
several World Bank-funded projects, will handle the fiduciary aspects of this project. A Project 
Steering Committee comprised of the CPMU Project Coordinator, Project Managers, MEYS 
officials, the Education Planning Officer and chairs of the stakeholder working groups will serve 
to further link the different units and the two ministries and ensure proper information sharing. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The Government has supported the preparation process. In addition, working groups comprised 
of key stakeholders have ensured that relevant issues and viable solutions are incorporated into 
project design. Stakeholder participation during project preparation is laying the ground for 
improved ownership and support during project implementation and sustainability of project 
interventions. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Donor co-ordination with single-source funding:
 Projects that are excessively complex, with 
multi-countries, multi-donors and multi-source funding have proven difficult to implement. The 
aim of this program is to improve donor coordination, stimulate donor investments and reduce 
transaction costs but avoid the rigidity and complexity of a co-financed loan. The Bank is 
engaged in dialogue and coordination of actions with major donors (DFID, CDB, OERU and 
EC) in the planning of sector investments and project designs. DFID and the Bank are working 
closely together in the preparation and implementation of this program, and DFID is providing 
parallel financing. In SVG in particular, the donors are also supporting the creation of the above-
mentioned centralized PCU to manage all externally financed education projects. 
 
Community participation in design and participation of projects
: All the countries have noted the 
importance of involving stakeholders in the development of sector plans and have adopted a 
highly participatory process to establish their national long-range education plans. Stakeholder 
working groups in Grenada and St. Kitts and Nevis contributed to tailor the design and have 
provided a source of quality control of project outputs. The participation of these groups from the 
Page  7
 
 
onset has facilitated project implementation, promoted ownership of project activities and gained 
support for project interventions. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[x ] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04)
 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12)
 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36)
 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37)
 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50)
 
[ ] 
[ x] 
 
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
See Annex to this PID 
 
11. Contact point 
 
Contact: Cynthia Hobbs 
Title: Education Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-8580 
Fax: (202) 614-0855 
Email: Chobbs@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
Page  8
 
 
Annex: List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
 
World  Bank Documents  
World Bank. Monitoring Educational Performance in the Caribbean (Report No. 24337). 
Washington, DC. 2003. 
 
World Bank. Caribbean Youth and Social Inclusion. Washington, DC. 2002. 
 
World Bank. A Caribbean Education Strategy (Report No.20452-LAC). Washington, DC. 2000. 
 
World Bank. First Annual Small States Forum (Discussion Draft).  Prague, Czech Republic. 
2000. 
 
World Bank. Trinidad and Tobago Youth and Social Development: An Integrated Approach for 
Social Inclusion. Washington, DC. 2000. 
 
World Bank. Review and Analysis of International Experience with Programs Targeted on At-
Risk Youth.  Washington, DC. 1996. 
  
World Bank. Targeting At-Risk Youths: Rationales, Approaches to Service Delivery and 
Monitoring and Evaluation Issues.  Washington, DC. 1996. 
 
World Bank. Access, Quality and Efficiency in Caribbean Education (Report No. 9753-CRG).  
Washington, DC. 1992. 
 
Other  
Andrew, Max. The EFA 2000 Assessment: Country Reports.  UNESCO. 2000. 
 
Auer, Peter. Curriculum Report for the OECS Education Development Project (project 
preparation consultancy). May 2002. 
 
Barker, Gary and M. Fontes. Review and Analysis of International Experience with Programs 
Targeted on At-Risk Youth. July 1996.  
   
Blank, L. Youth-at-Risk in Jamaica (Note prepared for The World Bank).  Washington, DC. 
2000. 
 
Caillods, Françoise and M.H. Maldonado-Villar. Secondary Education Issues in Latin America 
(Draft).  UNESCO. 1996-2001. 
 
Gill, Wayne. Consulting Services for Schools Mapping Project. St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 
2003. 
 
Gomart, Elizabeth. Pre-Social Assessment. Secondary Education Project for Dominica, Saint 
Kitts and Saint Lucia (unpublished; project preparation consultancy). Washington, DC. 2000.  
 
Page  9
 
 
Harewood, Gordon N. Addressing The Learning Needs of Males in The Eastern Caribbean.  
Final Report. 2000. 
 
Harewood, Gordon N. Addressing The Learning Needs of Males in The Eastern Caribbean. A 
Regional Perspective. 2000. 
 
Harrell, A. Evaluating Programs for Vulnerable Children and You. The Urban Institute (prepared 
for the World Bank). Washington, DC. 1995 
 
Lubben, Fred and J. George. Science Education in Dominica, St. Kitts and Nevis and St. Lucia (3 
volumes): Definition of the Core Curriculum and Implications for Learning Spaces, Equipment, 
Materials and Teacher Education (project preparation consultancy). April 2002.  
 
Martin, Maeve. Teacher Education Report for the OECS Islands: St.Lucia, St.Kitts and Nevis, 
and Dominica (project preparation consultancy). September 2002.  
 
Ministry of Education, Audit on the Management and Organization of the Ministry of Education. 
Grenada. 2000. 
 
Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. Education Sector Development Plan, 2002 to 2007. St. 
Vincent and the Grenadines. September 2002. 
 
Mortimore, P. and J. Mortimore. Improving Educational Performance of At-Risk Youths, 
Institute of Education, University of London [no date]. 
 
OECS Education Reform Strategy: Pillars for Partnership and Progress 2010. OECS. 
 
OECS Human Development Report 2002.  Building Competitiveness in the Face of 
Vulnerability.  OECS. 
 
Sewell, Tony. Organization of Eastern Caribbean States, Education Development Project Youth 
at Risk Report (project preparation consultancy). July 2002.  
 
West, Arnott. Extended EMIS for the OECS (Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia: 
separate volumes) (project preparation consultancy). September 2002, May 2003.  
 
