Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2952
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
IRELAND: FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 785-IRE)
April 21, 1980
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY AND ACRONYMS
AnCo: The Industrial Training Authority
DOE    Department of Education
DOA    Department of Agriculture
EEC    European Economic Community
FTC    Farmer Training Center or Agricultural
Education Center
RTC    Regional Technical College



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
IRELAND: FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 785-IRE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ........ .. ...............................................                       i
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET .......................                      ii
HIGHLIGHTS  .......................................................                      v
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
Changes in Project Composition during Implementation  ..... ......                     I
COMMENTS FROM BORROWER   ......... .. .  ................................. ...            2
Attachment:
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT  ......             .............................. .......     3
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .......             .................................           4
I.    INTRODUCTION .......         ....................................            9
II.    GENESIS AND DESIGN OF THE PROJECT ......................                    10
Initial Approach ................-..  10
The Development of the Project  ................ . . ......              11
The Formulation of the Project  .............          ..........    12
The Socio-Economic Determinants  ......... .... ........    12
The Education Sector and Development Strategy .......    13
Project Content and Objectives                      .        .          16
Modifications during Implementation....* ..............    17
III.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION    .           ................... . . ......        20
Physical Aspects                         .... 20
Overview ...........................................  -e**@-....... 20
Project Management Performance ..................... .                20
Impact on School Building Policy .....               ..............    21
Sites ..-*.-..............................                            22
Evaluation of School Building Designs  ..               ............    22
Reappraisal and Evaluation ..........................    24
Construction  ........................                                25
Maintenance ..............................          ...........    26
Furniture ...................... o @.--..-....-....-*   26
Equipment ................-                                          ----...........    27
Covenants . ........................................    28
Bank Performance ................-                                   -*--.----...-------  28



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
Educational Aspects . ................................ .   29
General Asssessment ......... . . . . ............................ .*...    29
Enrollments in the Project Schools .................   29
The Students ................................... *....... ...... *    32
Curriculum Developments    . ............. .....   32
Academic Standards and Examinations .................   34
Progression and School Leavers ............. .........   35
The Facilities .............. .*....              ...a.................. 36
Utilization of Facilities ..........................      38
Teachers ...................... *...... *........ ...    39
Community Activities ................................   39
Recurrent Expenditures of Project Institutions ......   40
IV.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ......      .......................   42
Capital Cost ..........................................   42
Unit Space Allocation per Student .....................   43
Unit Costs per Place ..................................   43
Disbursements                  ...... 44
CHARTS AND ANNEXES
Chart 1  -  Estimated and Actual Implementation and Disbursements
Chart 2  -  Actual Stages of Completion
Annex 1  -  Institutions Visited
Annex 2  -  Institutions, Places, Enrollments, Teachers - Planned
and Actual
Annex 3  -  Comparison of Originally Estimated Costs and Actual Costs
Annex 4  -  Disbursements
Annex 5  -  Growth and Distribution of Enrollments - Projected and Actual -
Project Comprehensive/Community Schools
Annex 6  -  Community School Competition - First Award
Annex 7  -  Community School Competition - Second Award
Annex 8  -  Cork Regional Technical College
Annex 9  -  The Engineering School of the Limerick Technical College
Annex 10 -  1977 Leavers in Destination Categories
Annex 11 -  Project School Leavers, 1977
Annex 12 -  Comparison of Originally Estimated and Actually Provided
Gross Construction Areas
Annex 13 -  Program of Adult Education



- i -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
IRELAND: FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 785-IRE)
PREFACE
This report presents a performance audit of the First Education
Project in Ireland (Loan 785-IRE) for which a loan of US$13.0 million was
approved on August 3, 1971.   The loan was fully disbursed in January 1979.
The report consists of (a) a brief Project Performance Audit Memorandum (PPAM)
prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department and (b) a Project Completion
Report (PCR) prepared by the Bank's Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office with some assistance from the Borrower's project unit.
The audit performed by OED did not involve a field visit.  It con-
sisted of a review of the PCR dated July 31, 1979, which itself was the result
of a field visit, the Appraisal Report, PE-31a dated July 19, 1971, the
President's Report, P-982, dated July 21, 1971, the Loan Agreement dated
August 9, 1971, the minutes of the meeting of the Board of Executive Directors
of the Bank at which the proposed loan was approved, material in the Bank's
files relating to this project and discussions with Bank operational staff
concerned with the project.   As is customary in the preparation of audit
reports, copies of the draft audit report were sent to the representatives of
the Borrower on January 9, 1980.   The Borrower replied on March 4, 1980,
stating that he had no comment to make.
On the basis of this review, OED finds no reason to disagree with
the analysis and findings of the PCR and adds in the PPAM one comment on
project generation.






- ii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
IRELAND FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 785-IRE)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal          Actual or
Item                                       Expectation       Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                    33.03              43.3,
Overrun (%)                                                       31.4-
Loan Amount (US$ million)                           13.0               13.0
Disbursed as at Jan. 9, 1979                        13.0               13.0
Cancelled                                          --                 --
Repaid to Sept. 30, 1979                           1.62               1.622,
Outstanding at Sept. 30, 1979                      --                12.65-
Date Physical Components Completed                July 1976           June 1979
(60 months)        (95 months)
Proportion Completed by above date (%)              78                100
Proportion of Time Overrun (%)                       --                58.3
Financial Performance                                               Satisfactory
Institutional Performance                                            Very Good
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                        Actual or
Plan       Revisions      Estimated Actual
First Mention in Files                                               March 1969
Government's Application                                             08/24/70
Negotiations                                                         June 1971
Board Approval                                                       08/03/71
Loan Agreement Date                                                  08/09/71
Loan Effectiveness Date             11/08/71       12/08/71          11/24/71
Closing Date                        12/31/76       06/30/78          01/09/79
Borrower                                    Ireland
Executing Agency                            Department of Education
Follow-on Project Name                      Second Education Project
Loan Number                                      959-IRE
Amount (US$ million)                             25.00
Loan Agreement Date                              Jan. 30, 1974
1/ Please note, however, that the project was reduced during implementation
by approximately 8%, hence the imputed cost overrun would be slightly
larger. In local currency terms the cost overrun was 46.6%.
2/ This includes an exchange adjustment of US$1.27 million.



- iii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET (Cont'd,)
IRELAND FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 785-IRE)
MISSION DATA
No. of    No. of       No. of  1  D4te of
Item        Sent by       Month/Year    Weeks       Persons    Man-weeks-/ Report
Reconnaissance      Bank       Mar. 1970          2      3               6        04/09/70
Preparation         Bank       May 25-30, 1970  1        3                2       06/16/70
Appraisal           Bank        Nov. 9-Dec. 9    4        7              22.5     07/19/71
1970
Total                                                              30.5
Supervision I       Bank        Oct. 6-9, 1971   1       1 (Arch.)       1        11/29/71
Supervision II      Bank       Oct. 16-18, 1972 0.5    1 (FacPl.)        0.5      11/02/72
Supervision III    Bank        Mar. 10-Apr. 6
1973             4      1 (FacPl.)      1        04/11/73
Supervision IV      Bank       Apr. 25-May 5,
1974             1.8    1 (Arch.)       1.3      06/13/74
Supervision V       Bank       Nov. 25-Dec. 2,
1974             1.5    1 (FacPl.)      1        12/06/74
Supervision VI      Bank       May 23-30, 1975  1        1 (TechEd.)    1         06/10/75
Supervision VII    Bank         Feb. 10-15, 1976 0.5    2 (FacPl.,       1        03/02/76
TechEd.)
Supervision VIII   Bank        Jan. 23-28, 1977 0.5    1 (TechEd.)    0.5         03/X8/76
Supervision IX      Bank       Mar. 20-27, 1978 1.2    1 (FacPl.)        1.2      04/19/78
Total                                                               8.5
Completion          Bank        June 5-21, 1979  2.2    2 (Educ,,        4.4      06/13/79
Arch.)
1/ All supervision missions except the first were involved with the appraisal or
supervision of the Second Education Project. Consequently, the man-weeks
given here for supervision are an estimate of the time devoted to the First
Education Project.
Note: Arch. = Architect; FacPl. = Facilities Planner; Educ. = Education Planner;
TechEd. = Technical Educator
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                               Irish Pound (Elk)
Appraisal Year Average                                        US$1 = bIr 0.42
Intervening Years Average                                    US$1 = LIr 0.47
Completion Year Average                                      US$1 - EIr 0.49



- iv -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET (Cont'd.)
IRELAND FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 785-IRE)
ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS (ihi US$)
Original Allocation              Actual
as in Loan Agreement          Disbursement
(as of 01/09/79)
I.  Civil Works                     7,700,000                9,647,804.91
II.  Furniture & Equipment           3,720,000                3,352,195.09
III.  Technical Assistance                80,000                     --
IV.  Unallocated                     1,500,000                      --
Total 13,000,000               13,000,000.00
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS (in US$ 000s)
(a)                  (b)                   (b) as
FY/Semester      Appraisal Forecast    Actual Disbursement    Percentage of
(a)
1972  (i)                    209                     --                 --
(ii)                   953                     115                12
1973  (i)                  2,036                     612                30
(ii)                 4,556                   2,085                46
1974  (i)                  6,409                  3,950                 62
(ii)                 7,845                   5,595                 71
1975  (i)                  9,059                  6,869                 75
(ii)                10,326                   7,326                 71
1976  (i)                11,696                   8,780                 75
(ii)                12,767                  10,202                 80
1977  (i)                 13,000                 11,180                 86
(ii)                                        11,600                 89
1978  (i)                                        12,000                 92
(ii)                                        12,500                96
1979  (i)                                        13,000                100






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
IRELAND: FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 785-IRE)
HIGHLIGHTS
The First Education Project in Ireland - Loan 785-IRE - provided a
loan of US$13.0 million to (a) assist in reforming and consolidating general
secondary and vocational education, (b) expand secondary level technical and
agricultural education and (c) expand higher level technician and commercial
education. The loan proceeds were fully disbursed by January 1979.
The project has been successfully implemented with the exception of
the following changes made during implementation:
(a) the transfer of the College of Commerce to the Second Education
Project because of the Borrower's delays in resolving prepara-
tion and jurisdictional problems;
(b) the deletion of the 30 agricultural education (farmer training)
centers and their construction outside of the project - because
ot the feeling on the part of local authorities that the
project's financing  and management  arrangement  appeared
to  infringe  upon the traditional autonomy enjoyed by these
authorities;
(c) the substitution of eight new comprehensive schools - in place
of seven of those which had been included in the project as
approved - as difficulties developed in securing the agreement
of some local authorities to these innovative schools; and
(d) non-use of the technical assistance provided for educational
facility planning because it was found to be unnecessary
(PCR, para. 2.25).
These changes reflected the need for more advanced project preparation involv-
ing discussion with local authorities during the project generation stage
(PPAM, paras. 1-3).   However, project objectives have remained intact.  The
project has proven valuable in helping to (a) pilot reforms and improvements
in secondary and technical education and systematic school building design and
(b) expand the education system.
Physical implementation was, on the whole, well attended to. Inter-
esting and innovative school building designs have been produced (PCR, paras.
3.06-3.10,  3.44-3.50).   Well designed furniture and good quality equipment
were efficiently procured with, however, some problems of delays in delivery
and installation of some equipment items (PCR, paras. 3.13-3.17). The physical
plant of these schools is being well maintained and enrollments are building
up to the intended levels (PCR, paras. 3.13, 3.23-3.29).



- vi -
The community schools have been able to establish programs providing
students opportunities for individual and group activity, remediation, pre-
employment on-the-job exposure and more science and practical subjects (PCR,
paras. 3.32-3.37). Within the national picture the project schools are
operating with average internal efficiency and making their proportionate
contribution to the labor market and to the supply of students for higher
education institutions (PCR, paras. 3.38-3.43) which is commendable in view
of how recently they have been established.
Other points of special interest are:
(a) the use of architectural design competition to select designs
for some of the community schools (PCR, para. 3.08);
(b) the progressive refinement of school building and furniture
designs (in the light of experience with the first phase of
work) both in subsequent phases of the project as well as for
the Second Education Project (PCR, paras. 3.15, 3.50);
(c) some flaws in school design and construction regarding thermal
insulation, roofing and sub-floor drainage (PCR, para. 3.12);
(d) the over-supply of teachers in the schools by comparison
with appraisal estimates (PCR, para. 3.57);
(e) the somewhat less economical strategy of using in project
schools smaller class sizes and a larger number of class groups
than envisaged at appraisal (PCR, paras. 3.24-3.28);
(f) the very strong community participation and support in the
community schools and in adult education (PCR, paras. 3.58-
3.62);
(g) that the enrollment in the community schools reflects the
socio-economic composition of their catchment areas (PCR,
paras. 3.30-3.31) and
(h) the good performance of the Project Unit established in the
Department of Education in carrying out the portion of the
project falling within that Department but its ineffectiveness
in coping with the portion falling within the Department of
Agriculture (PPAM, para. 2; PCR, paras. 3.02, 3.03).



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUMI
IRELAND: FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 785-IRE)
Changes in Project Composition during Implementation
1.        The Project Completion Report draws attention to various changes
in project composition during implementation, particularly that:
(a)  thirty  agricultural  education  (farmer  training)  centers
were deleted and have been provided instead by the Borrower
outside of the project,
(b)  seven of the 24 secondary community schools originally included
in the project were excluded and replaced by eight new ones and
(c)  the College of Commerce was deferred to the Second Education
Project (PCR, para. 2.25).
2.        These changes, as the PCR indicates, "did not invalidate the basic
objectives of the project".   However, securing the agreement of the various
local agencies (such as local agricultural commissions and religious author-
ities) on innovations that appeared to challenge their traditional autonomy
and ways of operating was evidently a much slower and uncertain process than
was assumed in this case.  In the case of the bulk of the secondary schools
the discussions proceeded successfully. In a few others the discussions were
eventually successful in time for inclusion in the Second Project.  However,
in the case of the local agricultural commissions, the stipulations in the
Loan Agreement about project management and financing involved some dilution
of the traditional powers of these commissions which, therefore, proceeded to
construct the centers without reference to the project unit or project financ-
ing.   The need for more exploratory discussions with the local authorities
prior to loan approval was evident in the case of these centers: the identi-
fication mission, in March 1970, had expressed doubts about their priority and
justification; the preparation mission, in May 1970, had supported the use of
mobile training centers, while the appraisal mission, in November 1970, had
felt that there was an absence of clear policy and long-term planning.
3.        The lesson to be drawn here is fundamentally one which has been
drawn by the Bank from the experience of several education projects - that of
the need for more advanced project preparation prior to approval and for
closer Bank/country consultation during project generation, in this case
involving the relevant local authorities.l/
1/   See for example, Operational Manual Statement No. 2.28 issued on Octo-
ber 19, 1978, "State of Project Preparation Necessary for Loan Approval"
and Report No. 2321, Review of Bank Operations in the Education Sector,
December 29, 1978, pp.35-36.






- 2 -
COMMENTS FROM BORROWER
TO MR SHIV S.KAPUR, DIRECTOR OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPARTMNNT
FROM JOHN LOUGHREY DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, DUBLIN, IRELAND.
SUBJECT: PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT ON FIRST EDUCATION
PROJECT (LOAN 785-IR POUND)
REGRET DELAY IN REPLYING TO YOUR LETTER OF 9 JANUARY. WE
HAVE EXAMINED DRAFT PPAR AND HAVE NO COMMENT TO MAKE ON IT.
BEST REGARDS
JOHN LOUGHREY
30357 GEEC EIO (Tlx Nr.) From: Dublin
6L1L5 WORLDBANK






-3-
ATTACHMENT
THE REPUBLIC OF IRELAND
Loan 785-IRE
First Education Project
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
July 31, 1979
Education & Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East & North Africa Region






- 4 -
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        A Bank loan for US$13.0 million was extended to Ireland in 1971 to
initiate: (a) a reform and consolidation of general secondary and vocational
education; (b) an expansion of secondary level technical and agricultural
education; and (c) expansion of higher-level technician and commercial educa-
tion. The project provided for the construction, furnishing, and equipping
of: (a) 24 comprehensive schools; (b) 1 regional technical college; (c) I
secondary technical school; (d) 1 college of commerce; (e) 30 agricultural
education centers; and for (f) technical assistance to the Project Implemen-
tation Unit. During project implementation, however, the project content
underwent some changes--the college of commerce was transferred to the sub-
sequent Second Education Project, the agricultural education centers were
constructed with all-Government funds, the technical assistance provision
was found unnecessary, and seven of the proposed comprehensive schools were
replaced by eight other comprehensive schools. The project, as completed,
thus consisted of: (a) 25 comprehensive schools; (b) 1 regional technical
college; and (c) 1 secondary technical school.
ii.       The Completion Mission visited the majority of project institu-
tions, as well as a number of non-project schools for purposes of comparison.
Through discussions with administrators, teachers, and students at project
institutions, and with Project Unit personnel, an assessment was made of the
degree of achievement of project objectives and institution-building goals
agreed with the Borrower at the time of appraisal and negotiations.
iii.      Background.  It should be noted that it is difficult to assess the
success and contribution of the project within the framework of national
economic and social policies and priorities without including the Second
Education Project. The latter continues the thrust of the first, reinforces
its impact, and extends its coverage. The second, too, deals with compre-
hensive/community schools, technician and skilled-worker training centers
covering the fields of industrial and business activities, and agricultural
education.
iv.       The first project (complemented by the second) was designed to sup-
port programs planned or initiated in response to a socio-economic situation
in which the proposed entry of Ireland into the European Economic Community
(EEC) had focused policy issues on: (a) manpower weaknesses (quantitative
and qualitative); and (b) the urgent need to reorganize and reorient the
education training system, not only in line with economic exigencies, but also
in promoting greater equity in accessibility to educational opportunities. To
build upon advances already made, what was needed was a broad based secondary
level education curriculum with emphasis on technical and science studies. To
achieve this it was necessary to gradually eliminate the existing discrimina-
tory structure of second level education, and to broaden curriculum offerings
to cater for all levels of ability. The Government's response was the intro-
duction of the comprehensive or community school, which merged the programs of
the more prestigious private (but Government-aided) secondary schools and
those of the so-called public "vocational" schools. In addition to providing
new community schools in areas where no secondary schools existed (mainly new



- 5 -
urban areas), it was proposed to rationalize the existing secondary education
provision by a system of consolidating, wherever agreement could be reached, a
number of small single-sex secondary and vocational schools in the same areas
(the usual pattern in Ireland particularly outside the main cities) into more
economically sized coeducational schools.
v.        The project provided a stimulus for action to be expedited by
helping finance the resources required for the technician training and the
comprehensive school programs. The Department of Education (DOE) wisely
decided to introduce the reforms without legislative changes or indeed without
changes to the structure of the existing system. In addition, it proceeded
initially on the basis of a small pilot project prior to the implementation
of the more extensive changes included in the First Education Project. Not-
withstanding the tactful approach, the participation of the Bank in support
of the comprehensive/community school program may be considered a bold one.
The possibility of problems in implementation of the plan to reform and
rationalize secondary education was real; the secondary school authorities
were sensitive to any Government action which appeared to impinge upon their
traditional role in secondary school ownership and management. Bank inter-
vention at this time was particularly opportune, however, in providing support
for the implementation of the initial program of schools and revised curricula
under the new policies. Any inherent risk appears to have been fully justi-
fied by the potential benefits of the reform implementation.
vi.       Physical Execution.  The project was executed efficiently and
economically. Some delays occurred in reaching agreement on consolidation of
schools in some locations and, as a result, a two-year extension of the
Closing Date proved necessary. However, almost 80 percent of the project was
implemented within the original schedule and 87 percent of the project funds
were disbursed by the original Closing Date. Total cost of the project was
US$43.39 million, an increase of 31.4 percent in dollar terms over original
estimates. The overriding reason for the overrun was the high worldwide
inflation of 1974-78, which affected construction costs in Ireland very
severely.
vii.      The schedules of accommodation are very much in line with those
planned, except for an overall increase in area of about 21 percent, mostly
for recreational facilities and social areas to take into account the more
extended use of the facilities by the community than visualized during
appraisal. The increase was justified. Except for the two technical ins-
titutes, utilization is satisfactory and will be further improved when all the
schools have their full quota of enrollments. Overall capital unit costs per
place are a reasonable E950 (US$2,042) for the community schools and about
tl,478 (US$3,178) for the technical institutions.
viii.     Equipment and furniture procurement presented no major difficulties.
Appraisal provisions were generally adequate except for the two technical
institutions. The equipment and furniture are of good quality, appropriate
and are fully utilized.



- 6 -
ix.       The buildings were constructed, furnished and equipped in four
separate stages over six years. The buildings as designed are highly func-
tional and are flexible in their ability to adjust to future changes in
curricula and enrollment, and to serve the needs of the community at large.
The architectural designs of the Master Plan schools, the first group of
schools constructed, and the schools built subsequent to a well-conceived
"ideas competition" are both practical and imaginative. This trend of archi-
tectural experimentation has been continued, however, into the design of the
Second Education Project schools and beyond it, with possible negative impact
on both capital and recurrent costs. In particular, the design of a large and
compact plan, combined with the objective of achieving the maximum use of
natural as opposed to mechanical lighting and ventilation, while flexible and
convenient, became the source of heating deficiencies. Experimentation with
more complex building plans and designs in ensuing phases of the project has
aggravated the problem. While to date this problem has not seriously affected
the operation of the schools, its resolution is of paramount importance.
x.        Overall, it appears that a period of consolidation in design devel-
opment would be desirable, during which the results of architectural experi-
mentation would be evaluated, and lessons learned in refining specifications,
the most economical use of materials and in design approach would be applied.
Such evaluation should place more emphasis than heretofore on cost-in-use over
the life of the building and include analysis of alternate means of heating
and ventilating school buildings with a view towards selecting the most
economical energy consuming systems, taking into account user requirements,
building designs, need for low cost maintenance installations, and the avail-
ability and cost of energy.
xi.       Among the main achievements of the Project Unit over the period of
implementation of the project were:
(a) establishing norms and standards and a systems approach to
planning, design and construction;
(b) maintaining rigid control over capital costs of school
buildings, which resulted in significantly lower price
increases in school buildings than in all other sectors
of the construction industry;
(c) improving the general design of education facilities and
providing for effective educational feedback to the Second
Education Project and, more importantly, to all school
buildings planned or under construction;
(d) educating Irish architects in the latest criteria for
planning, design and construction of school buildings,
thus developing an important resource;
(e) developing school furniture standards and designs based
upon latest anthropometric findings; and



-7 -
(f) developing maintenance standards and procedures for a
full-fledged buildings and grounds maintenance program.
xii.      Educational Objectives.  The case may be put briefly.  The degree of
success is not measured by the fact that 25 community schools and 2 technical
institutions were built, equipped and are operating. The benefits of the
project range much further as a result of the high degree of carry-over into
the secondary system as a whole. The number of schools called community
schools may still not be many, but a very large and growing number of private
secondary schools and of public vocational schools are following the example
of the community school. The secondary schools may still be selective (to a
lesser degree than before), single-sex (again there is the beginning of a
change), but their curricula, and this is the key, have become as comprehen-
sive as their facilities will allow. They are seeking from the Government and
obtaining, as resources become available, the same facilities as are made
available to the project schools.
xiii.     Thus, the project schools are helping to remove the artificial
but high-charged emotional barriers between the secondary schools and the
so-called vocational schools. All second level schools in Ireland are moving
in this direction whether they be public vocational or private (public-aided)
secondary; the academic and technical programs have been merged in the schools.
Teachers are available and more practical subject specialists as required will
become available from the Technical Teacher Training College included in the
Second Education Project.
xiv.      The community schools have won the confidence of their neighborhood
and thus attract children of all ability groupings and of a broader socio-
economic status. The long-term principle of non-selective secondary schools
is very gradually being achieved without fuss; some secondary schools are
giving priority for admittance to all children of their neighborhoods on a
non-selective basis.
xv.       The community schools and the technical institutes have provided
by their own example, following the studies carried out or initiated by
the project management group and the management practices of the principals
of the schools, a model of the relevant facilities and other resources re-
quired to apply a comprehensive set of programs and activities, economic but
functional norms and standards, modern organizational patterns and student
services. Institution building in these respects has been a significant
benefit. As a result, the project institutions have provided, and have been
seen to provide, a positive educational environment in which equal (approp-
riate to their aptitudes and abilities) educational opportunities exist for
all children, including slow learners and the physically handicapped. In one
respect there could be an improvement; almost all of the project schools
appear over-staffed, indicating a need for further refining of staffing
ratios.



- 8 -
xvi.      A major achievement of the project community school is the services
rendered to the community. The example set is being followed by other second
level schools. They have committed their resources to promotion of the
concept of life-long education, and have become totally community centers by
winning an astonishingly high level of citizen participation. The technical
institutes have very substantial evening adult programs for upgrading of
skills.
xvii.     The Department of Education has been furnished with some important
tools: the Secondary School General Brief (architectural design stemming from
curricular needs); The Education Worksheet (functional and economic schedules
of accommodation); Notes for the Guidance or School Managers; and Design and
Cost Control for School Buildings, including formulas relating to norms and
cost limits. These instruments have proved useful in the preparation, evalua-
tion and ongoing implementation of the Second Education Project, as well as in
respect of operations in the total education system.
xviii.    The project technical institutions are providing the economy with
much-needed manpower at the technician level and skilled-worker level through
upgrading programs; the apprenticeship training scheme has been supported but
enrollments here are below capacity. The studies and activities leading to
implementation and the experiences of the first project in respect of the
technical institutes item have been invaluable in the programming and imple-
mentation of the technical colleges in the second project.
xix.      Institution-building aspects are implicit in the above, particularly
in reinforcement of the curriculum development capability, the research and
executive capacity of the Building Unit, and its capability to provide tech-
nical advice to the private secondary schools. In addition, the project was
instrumental in increasing the capacity of the DOE to organize or initiate
in-service programs for teachers, principals and vice-principals. The project
has shown the critical significance of the true marriage of architects and
educators in an efficient and effective process of project elaboration, design
conceptualization and monitoring during implementation. The experience gained
in administering this project has equipped the Building Unit with the ability
to appraise and supervise future school building programs. The Building Unit
now plans to sponsor a major reappraisal of its activities to date and use the
findings towards developing an ongoing self-evaluation process.



- 9 -
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In accordance with Terms of Reference dated May 24, 1979, a Mission
comprising two consultants, Messrs C.L. Germanacos (education planner) and
J.E. Kulski (architect planner), visited Ireland from June 5 through 21, 1979
to carry out a project completion review of the Ireland First Education
Project financed under Loan No. 785-IRE in August 1971. The major objectives
of the project had been: (i) re-inforcement of the national policy of restruc-
turing and reorienting second level education to enhance its relevance to the
scientific and technological context of national development policies, and to
assure a broader and more equitable system of educational opportunity; and
(ii) to increase and improve the outputs of technical and vocational education
centers at technician, skilled worker and apprenticeship level. Implicit,
too, was the promotion of an institution-building function in the education/
training sector.
1.02      The Mission was required to consider the actual realization of the
project implementation objectives and targets (physical, financial and educa-
tion) with the planned or expected schedules and achievements set out at the
time of appraisal and negotiations.  Two reservations must be made at this
point. Firstly, a systematic and valid evaluation of the quality of the
outputs cannot be and was not attempted at this early stage of operation of
the project educational institutions. Trends and possibilities were observed
and discussed. Secondly, in view of the budgetary constraints limiting the
range of manpower and time that could be assigned to the completion exercise,
the Mission has restricted analysis to a limited number of issues, although
still endeavoring to cover the full range of the project process and activi-
ties. The more detailed topics dealt with are those which the Mission con-
cluded may have most significance in terms of future Bank operations in the
education sector, and/or serve the best interests of Ireland in its own future
educational programs from the conception and design stages to implementation,
evaluation and subsequent policy and planning stages.
1.03      The completion study was carried out through a study of relevant
records, reports and other data available in the Bank and in Ireland, and
included the Government's initial loan request documents in which intentions,
criteria, objectives and justification data are often more comprehensively
stated than in the very succinctly presented statements of Bank documents.
Visits were made to 17 of the 27 project educational institutions (revised
list) (Annex 1); points relevant to the completion exercise were discussed
with principals, teachers and, in some cases, with students, local education
authority officials, and the building contractors and consultant architects.
In addition, the Mission visited a number of "control" schools and schools
established under the Second Education Project to compare these with the first
project schools; the purpose was to ascertain what of the activities and
studies related to the first project implementation process may have carried
over into schools outside the project.
1.04      The Mission has attempted to review the project in the first place
in the framework of the Borrower's education strategy and objectives and the



- 10 -
Bank's lending policy in the education sector as those obtained at the time of
appraisal and Loan Agreement. The Mission then assessed the extent to which
the various activities leading to, and instrumental in, project implementation
may have been affected or influenced in their turn by subsequent changes in
the national education policies.
1.05      The Borrower's Project Unit staff contributed significantly to
this review through research, data gathering and conducting a survey of
completed project institutions. Furthermore, the Mission received in Ireland
enthusiastic support without which this review would not have been possible.
II. GENESIS AND DESIGN OF THE PROJECT
Initial Approach
2.01      The Government of Ireland inquired in December 1969 whether Bank
financial assistance of $8.6 million might be made available for an education
project costing some $28 million. The tentative request included 29 secondary
comprehensive/community schools, one Institute of Technology and Higher
Commercial Studies, a College of Art, an Institute of Higher Education in
Limerick and two Regional Technical Colleges (Cork and Galway).  A further
communication in March 1970 asked that the Galway Regional Technical College
be deleted since immediate action for its establishment had already been
initiated by the Government. At about the same time, Bank interest was sought
in an agricultural education project comprising farmer education centers,
residential agricultural colleges and a Faculty of Agriculture. Bank recon-
naissance and pre-preparation missions to Ireland helped define the project
which was submitted in August 1970 for appraisal. The initial requests to the
Bank are of interest for two reasons:
(a)  the content of the projects originally proposed reflects
the basic priority concerns of the country in the
field of education at that time: the structure, content
and objectives of secondary education; the urgency for
expansion of technician training, post-secondary agricul-
tural and business studies, and farmer and industrial
skilled worker training; and
(b)  the content and nature of the two Bank-assisted educa-
tion projects together do in fact respond to these
specific needs.
2.02      It is of interest too that the early Bank mission raised issues
important to the proposed comprehensive school component:
(a)  Would the religious authorities cooperate in the proposed
secondary school rationalization scheme and would they be
prepared to conform with criteria and norms agreed by the
Bank and the Government?



- 11 -
(b)  Wiould it be possible to introduce mechanisms to assure
satisfactory articulation of the comprehensive school
with higher education colleges and universities? Would
the universities broaden their admittance regulations to
recognize the new (practical) subjects in the comprehen-
sive school curriculum?
2.03      As brought out later, the second issue was satisfactorily solved;
the first issue which goes to the root of the management question has been
solved in some areas as a result of goodwill and flexible approaches by all
parties concerned. There are, however, instances where agreement has not
been achieved even in cases where proposed project institutions were involved.
And this was one reason for early changes to the list of schools originally
included in the Loan Agreement.
The Develop,ment  f the Project
2.04      In August 1970, the Irish Government submitted loan request docu-
ments which comprised the items shown below which on appraisal were slightly
modified:
Approved             Revised
Request-            Loan Agreement         Agreement
Type of Institution       No. of   Est. Cost    No. of   Est. Cost          No. of
and Expenditure          Inst.      US_$m       Inst.       US$m            Inst.
Comprehensive Schools       9        7.54            6         4.88             7
Community (Comp.)
Schools                   20       16.75          18        14.76             18
Regional Tech. Coll.,
Cork                       1        5.86            1         5.38             1
Senior Tech. Schl.,
Limerick                   1        1.63            1         1.53             1
Dublin College of
Commerce                   1        1.34            1         1.08
Agricultural Education
(Farmer Training)
Centers                   30        1.30          30          1.34
Technical Assistance                  -                        0.10            NIL
Contingencies                      -_                         3.96
34.42                    33.03
with Foreign Exchange
estimated at                      11.29 (33%)              13.05 (40%)
The sound work done in preparation is witnessed by the congruence between
the request details and the approved items; the 29 comprehensive schools



- 12 -
were reduced to 24 but providing for some larger schools than were in the
original. The small but very significant technical assistance component was
built in by the appraisal mission to assure that assistance could be obtained
to introduce what the Irish authorities were seeking, a systems approach to
school building design and construction in order to reduce costs while provid-
ing a high quality educational environment. The subsequent modifications to
the project are dealt with later.
2.05      The content of the approved project as listed above reflects the
objectives and priorities of Irish education policy at the time (para. 2.01
(i)). It is necessary to consider the factors--socioeconomic and educational--
which determined policy and priorities.
The Formulation of the Project
2.06      A.  The Socio-Economic Determinants.  The Irish Government has been
keenly conscious of the significance of human resource development to offset
the poverty of its mineral resources. In the 1960s, and more so in the early
1970s when entry in the European Economic Community (EEC) loomed so large in
economic thinking as a real challenge, it was more critically realized that
the active population would need to increase its capability and productivity
in the agricultural field; in addition a wide and expanding range of skills
would be required to reinforce the burgeoning industrial sector. For sound
economic and political reasons, too, it was imperative that new employment
opportunities also become available in regions outside the metropolitan areas.
The urban population in 1970 represented almost 52 percent of the three
million total population and was concentrated in Dublin (25 percent), Cork (13
percent) and Limerick (6 percent). The rural population was widely scattered.
There were, however, a large number of small market towns in the rural areas
well-located for industrial development using the neighborhood active popula-
tion. A high dependency rate (42 percent) and the dispersion of the rural
population had made it difficult to provide adequate educational, health and
other services in the rural areas. In consequence, the general level of
education, despite considerable improvements in the 1960s, still remained low
by EEC standards. The 1966 census had shown that 60 percent of the population
had had only primary education; less than 4 percent had attended post-secondary
institutions. Functional illiteracy was a low 10 percent, but in agriculture
87 percent of the men and 77 percent of the women had had no more than primary
schooling.
2.07      During the 1960s, after a period of economic stagnation, Ireland
changed from a basically agricultural economy to one in which industry played
the major role raising its share of GDP from 27 percent in the mid-1950s to
36 percent in 1970 and accounting for 32 percent of total employment. Agri-
culture continued to occupy a central role in the economy, employing 25
percent of the labor force and accounting for over 40 percent of export
earnings. The rapid growth of exports, the availability of relatively cheap
manpower, and substantial foreign investments provided the framework for a
steady growth of GDP as a whole of over 4 percent p.a. in the decade. However,
it was appreciated that the continued high rate of industrial growth and the
high potential of Ireland within the EEC as an agricultural producer depended,



- 13 -
interalia, on raising the skill and management levels of the working popula-
tion; real shortages were evident of technicians and skilled workers in all
sectors; business and technical studies and a more science-oriented general
education base were clearly seen as the prerequisites.
2.08      In this context, the third national program (1968-72) continued the
strategy of the first two plans of further diversification of the economy, and
emphasized a more balanced regional development and reduction of regional and
sectoral disparities in income distribution. The main aim was to strengthen
the social and economic structure of the country to exploit to the full the
potential of Ireland when it entered the EEC.
2.09      More specifically, manpower requirements for the period 1970-80 were
put at a total demand of 376,000 including an additional 55,000 professionals
and technicians, 41,000 managers and executives, 50,000 craftsmen and foremen,
and 52,000 service workers. In terms of projected supply of the existing
education system for the period 1970-80, this meant increased shortages of
technicians and skilled workers (engineering, electronics, mechanics, construc-
tion) and business graduates. The overall projected supply of university
graduates would be beyond the absorptive capacity of the labor market, but
enrollments in the technical fields were inadequate. Quantitatively, too,
outputs at the senior secondary level would be inadequate; the question of
orientation of the programs of secondary level graduates is dealt with below.
In agriculture, the modernization and reorganization of production, distribu-
tion and processing were reducing the need for unskilled labor, but requiring
an upgrading of the level of farmer education.
2.10      B.  The Education Sector and Development Strategy.  That the educa-
tion training system was not fully geared to respond to the changing economic
and social conditions of the country had become evident by the middle 1960s
and was even more officially realized by 1970 as entry to the EEC became a
goal.  Quantitatively, the formal system in 1970 was well-developed with all
compulsory school-age children enrolled in primary schools (grades 1-6) and
over 70 percent and 7 percent of the relevant age groups enrolled in secondary
schools (grades 7-11) and in higher education respectively. Female participa-
tion had been normal in primary and secondary (about 50 percent) and a compara-
tively satisfactory 32 percent in higher education. Efficiency indicators
were favorable. Progression was high at over 90 percent from primary to
secondary and 65 percent from first cycle secondary (grades 7-9) to second
cycle (grades 10-11); but movement into higher education (25-30 percent) was
restricted, not only by control mechanisms but also because of the need and
preference of substantial numbers of school leavers to enter the job market.
Repetition rates were low as also the wastage rates (less than 4 percent in
the senior cycle of secondary). Teacher/student ratios on the whole were
satisfactory and the great majority of teachers were qualified - 90 percent in
primary, 80 percent in secondary.
2.11      The weaknesses of the education-training system in Ireland lay
in the structure, objectives and curricular orientations of the secondary
level and the inadequate range of programs at post-secondary technician level.
These weaknesses need not be listed since they are implicit in the discussion



- 14 -
that follows on the education development strategy adopted and the reforms
introduced by the Department of Education (DOE).
2.12      The Government strategy was to restructure the second level educa-
tion sub-system. The new structure would provide a first cycle secondary
program for all primary school leavers and thus achieve the goal of nine-year
compulsory schooling. This entailed the encouragement of a common core
curriculum for all in the first cycle with practical subjects and optional
subjects complementing the common core. Restructuring also was to eliminate
the invidious distinction between the "secondary" school and the so-called
"vocational" school; this was to be achieved by (a) the broadening and exten-
sion (to 5 years) of the "vocational" school curriculum so as to attain
equivalence with the five-year secondary school program; the vocational school
would continue to offer a wide range of options in practical technical sub-
jects in addition to what might be termed the traditional common core second-
ary school subjects. (It should not be overlooked that many "traditional"
secondary schools to the extent they had the facilities to do so provided
practical studies for all in the first cycle and on an optional basis in the
senior cycle); and (b) incorporating wherever feasible the "traditional"
academic school(s) with a neighboring vocational school, either in existing,
expanded or new facilities, or by building such comprehensive curriculum
schools in areas where second level schooling provisions were inadequate (new
housing development areas, the less' well-endowed rural areas).
2.13      However, to achieve equity in educational opportunity it was neces-
sary to aim at eliminating the "elitist" tradition and practice whereby,
through strict (however out-moded) selective procedures, the secondary schools
creamed off the best of the year's primary school output and the remainder
went to the vocational schools. It has not been possible to eliminate this
practice completely since introducing strict catchment boundaries for each and
every school would meet with strong opposition. Consequently, secondary
schools in Ireland are comprehensive in terms of curriculum to the extent
their facilities allow, but many are not comprehensive in terms of taking all
the children of a specified area irrespective of ability grouping.
2.14      Another objective of the restructuring is implicit in the above.
The reform, the broadening and modernization of the curricula, was to be
accompanied by application of modern school organization and teaching tech-
niques. This called not only for retraining/training of principals and
teachers but for new types of teachers for remedial work and guidance/
counselling, and for new or additional physical facilities such as
functionally-designed and well-equipped laboratories and workshops and audio-
visual aids. It is in these aspects that the existing schools were weak.
Obsolete buildings needed to be replaced and in most instances the new types
of spaces had to be added or appropriate conversions made. The virtually
automatic promotion practice in the schools may cause serious problems in
schools which have not yet organized a systematic program of remedial work.
Moreover, for the present the traditional system of final examination, except
for primary schools, for graduation purposes still prevails particularly to
determine scores for admission to higher education. The whole question of
examinations, testing and evaluation needs to be reviewed. Unfortunately,
this issue was not raised in either of the Bank-assisted projects.



- 15 -
2.15      Restructuring and reorientation of objectives and curricula of
second level education also serve the objective of relating the education
system more closely to manpower needs. This key level of education should be
designed to make students more adaptable to further training and help channel
students to a greater degree into the more urgently needed careers in the
technical and science fields, a direction which the older secondary system had
only partially succeeded in taking because of its more concentrated attention
to academic subjects. Consequently, the reform entailed the introduction
of a broad range of subjects to cater for the aptitudes and abilities of the
heterogenous groups that would enter the comprehensive schools. The teaching
approach would be more practical and problem-solving.
2.16      The rationalization scheme clearly embodied the principle of greater
coordination of the educational effort. The objective was a significant but
gradual change from a system of small basically academically-oriented private
secondary boys' or girls' schools to a system of comprehensive, co-educational
schools in which prevocational training opportunities were merged with more
traditional academic courses. The optimum size of a consolidated or new
school had to be determined in the framework of the population and the total
educational provisions of the locality, the issue of management agreement and
readiness to help eliminate duplication and eliminate discriminatory practices.
This, it should be repeated, remains, though perhaps to a decreasing level of
confrontation, a major issue. Not all school authorities are prepared to
support a rational, a unified but flexible system of post-primary education if
this would encroach upon their management control and their traditional
selective admission procedures.
2.17      Four pilot comprehensive schools in 1966, fully financed by the
Government, pointed the way to the reform. It was followed by a more general
approach in the community comprehensive schools of the First Education Project.
These brought out the degree of guidance, central oversight and freedom of
action by principals and staff that was acceptable to all parties. As we
shall see subsequent financing of 80 percent of private schools' new facilities
program has reduced the tension over management; it has led to the growing
acceptance of the concepts and objectives of the project comprehensive curricu-
lum and application of the building design and the accommodation and equipment
schedules. In applying these concepts, the local school authorities, public
and private, were promoting a further objective of the reform--the provision
of a more relevant environment and resources for promotion of the community
development and adult education plans of the Government. The educational
authorities were imbued with the concept of life-long education. The resources
provided in a comprehensive school facilitated its use as a community develop-
ment center in the broadest sense with its resources available for formal
learning programs, for skill upgrading, for cultural, leisure and recreational
pursuits, for community activities in general--thus these schools were also
"community" schools and for purposes of this report all the project schools
will be so called.
2.18      Schools had been used for such purposes before, but the project
community school was able to give a real stimulus to the movement, to broaden
its range and scope, to give it a systematic base, to bring out the natural
leaders and able volunteers in the community.



- 16 -
Project Content and Oblectives
2.19      It is in this context in 1970 of critical socio-economic changes and
urgency for application of a related reform of education and training that the
First Education Project must be set, its specific objectives analyzed and
assessed, the course of its implementation reviewed, and its achievements and
benefits and/or shortcomings evaluated. Before discussing progress in the
realization of the project objectives, it is advisable to return to the proj-
ect content and also to its general and specific objectives. Readers are
referred to para. 2.04. The Loan Agreement was in respect of (Annex 2 for
details):
24 Community/Comprehensive schools with         15,960 places
1 Regional Technical College at Cork
with a capacity of                          2,700 places
1 Senior Technical School at Limerick
(the Engineering School) for                  800 places
1 College of Commerce at Dublin for               800 places
30 Agricultural Education (Farmer Training)
Centers for                                 1,650 places
and technical assistance (two man-years related to school
building design).
2.20      The project was specifically designed to promote both economic and
social policies of the Irish Government. It followed upon schemes initiated
in the 1960s by the Government to improve the potential and the relevance of
the education training system; these schemes included:
(a) the inauguration in 1966 of four pilot comprehensive schools
in areas where no post-primary facilities were available.
The DOE advised all secondary and vocational school authori-
ties to come together with their neighbors to consider
collaborating in the joint use of school facilities in order
to increase the possibility of broadening curricula to
include both academic and vocational subjects; this early
beginning did bring about some cooperation, in particular
because it did not involve amalgamation or assimilation of
existing schools; it was no threat to the management;
(b)  in 1967 the Primary School Certificate was abolished after
the primary curriculum had been revised;
(c)  in the same year the Regional Technical College program
was launched for the training of skilled workers (at
secondary level) and technicians; in addition the Industrial
Training Authority (AnCo) was created to develop and promote
training within industry and develop the apprenticeship
program; and



- 17 -
(d) in 1970 the National Manpower Service was set up within
the Department of Labor to forecast supply and demand of
labor by sector and to operate a placement service.
2.21      The Government sought an improved general education base to ensure
improved and expanded further education and training capabilities. But these
developments, particularly the generalization of the comprehensive school
concept through the project, aimed at something more than satisfying manpower
needs. The aim encompassed also democratic and progressive developments in
Irish education. Thus, the project schools were to help provide the educa-
tional infrastructure for needed technological developments, but the aim too
was to lead up to free second level education for all the youth of the country,
to make it non-selective, to provide a broad range of educational programs, to
initiate a counselling service in the schools, to provide opportunities for
experimentation and educational innovation, and to foster community activity.
2.22      The project was intended to serve as a catalyst and to provide a
needed and sustained thrust. The emphasis of the project was on reform which
enhances the role of technical and science education, expands training and
retraining opportunities, and which more particularly would considerably
expand and improve industrial technician and business training as well as
farmer training.
2.23      Nor is the question of equity overlooked--equity in terms of access-
ibility of educational provisions at provincial and county and urban/rural
levels as well as the relevance and range and equivalency of educational
programs to allow each child to find something to which he could respond
positively.
2.24      Careful planning by the national authorities and the appraisal mis-
sion went into the question of the nature and objectives of the schools to be
included in the project, their optimum size in terms of economic efficiency,
educational effectiveness, response to child development and reactions.
Moreover, attention was given to the requirements for efficient school admin-
istrators as well as appropriately trained teachers. Resource constraints led
to consideration of economic but functional standards of utilization of
buildings, equipment and teachers. This led on to determination by the DOE
Building Unit educators and architects of rationalization of school building
practices, the utilization of appropriate norms, the nature of materials to be
used, the preparation of well-conceived lay-out designs for all school spaces
within a building for which a detailed brief had set out the philosophy of
educational, cultural and social activities and administrative and organi-
zational practices which would inspire its operation. The design of the
building was to be sufficiently flexible also to allow for future internal
transformation or extension without undue cost or inconvenience. The pro-
posals for economic utilization of teachers, however, were not adequately
applied as explained later.
Modifications During Implementation
2.25      After Loan Agreement some significant changes were made to the
project content. The changes exemplify the problems inherent in education



- 18 -
projects but did not invalidate the basic objectives of the project, parti-
cularly because positive action was subsequently taken on all the questions in
the Second Education Project or by the Government itself:
(a) The College of Commerce, Dublin, was transferred to the
second project when it became clear that definite decisions
and programs, enrollments, designs, etc., would be delayed.
The main cause of delay was the difficulty in reaching
agreement on jurisdictional matters between the Dublin
Vocational Educational Committee, which traditionally had
responsibility for all technician training (including com-
mercial) in the Dublin area, and a newly established
autonomous Institute of Higher Education. This management
issue has still not been resolved.
(b) The thirty agricultural education centers were withdrawn
from the project at the request of the Department of Agri-
culture (DOA). In 1972, the DOA had advised the Bank that it
needed more time to review the item; there were reservations
over the project item management and financing requirements
of the appraisal. In 1973, agreement was reached by the Bank
and the Government for the exclusion of the centers from the
project in view of the DOA decision to avoid any action which
would appear to infringe upon the local county agricultural
committees' authority, and because they had already proceeded
with constructing a number of centers, without following
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. It is
significant that the DOA, as agreed at the time of withdrawal
from the project, has proceeded with the project item, though
at significantly higher cost than visualized at appraisal. It
has provided the local committees with about 50 percent of the
costs of each center built; the local committees have made up
the difference. (The central contribution today is about 25
percent of total cost.) Twenty of the centers have been built
and are operational, two are under construction, four at the
tender stage, and two are being established through conversion
of existing buildings; only two locations have been deferred.
In all there are 44 centers in operation and 9 under construc-
tion of a planned national network of 80 centers. The EEC is
meeting about 25 percent of the operational expenditures. The
DOA training section officials believe that the Bank interest
in the first place served to provide the necessary impetus to
convince the Government that the program for the establishment
of farmer training centers was significant and should be
supported. The objectives set out in the appraisal have
remained operative and have proven to be well-tuned to what is
relevant in the EEC context.
(c) Also eliminated was the technical assistance item. It
became unnecessary as the project management group within the
DOE Building Unit itself developed and applied the requisite
studies.



- 19 -
(d) Changes in the community school item within two years of
Loan Agreement affected locations and capacities. Seven
of the originally 24 selected and appraised schools were
excluded and replaced by 8 others. The places to be
provided changed from 15,960 to 16,740 as a result of the
additional school and changes in capacity to 9 of the
original list of schools (some with an increase, some with a
decrease in capacity). This high proportion of changes (16
schools of the original 24) was partly due again to the
management issues discussed above. Negotiations for con-
solidation broke down in some of the chosen localities; in
others the detailed field studies before preparation of the
architectural brief indicated an over-estimation or under-
estimation of the potential of the catchment area. These two
reasons exemplify the problems peculiar to the politically
sensitive area of education in which changes in central
policies or local politics or traditions can force changes to
an education project at any and every stage of its implemen-
tation. Certainly, the appraisal mission had attempted to
gauge the strength of local sentiment; it seems it had taken
the risk of possible changes in localities to show Bank
support of the rationalization proposals; changes in venue
were not important in view of the number of localities in
reserve for inclusion. It is interesting to note that the
managers of one of the seven schools taken out of the first
project opted for inclusion in the second project. The
initial spadework and discussions were not in vain. More-
over, the other schools which had been under consideration
for consolidation have for the most part attempted to move in
the direction of the project education concepts.
(e) A change in policy, in fact, partly negated one of the
objectives of the community school concept--the objective to
economize on teachers through the rationalization of programs
and the consolidation of schools into larger units. The
appraisal mission had assumed a teacher/student ratio of 1:20
in the community schools (as in the secondary schools); in
1977 the DOE reduced this to 1:18 (1:19 in the secondary
schools and 1:16 in the vocational schools). In addition,
the principal, vice-principal, the counsellor and the chaplain
were not taken into account in the teacher/student ratio.
These changes mean that the community schools will be consider-
ably more costly (by 15-20 percent) to operate than envisaged.
2.26      The change in the location of schools did not adversely affect the
balance between rural and urban schools. In fact only three of the project
schools are within the center of the large cities and those in the poorer
sectors, six are in the periphery of the cities in largely new housing (low
and lower-middle income) areas, and the remaining 16 in smaller towns in the
rural areas.



- 20 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Physical Aspects
Overview
3.01      At appraisal, project implementation was expected to be completed
and the Loan disbursed by the end of 1976. About 78 percent of the project
was implemented within the original schedule (21 out of 27 project institu-
tions), and 87 percent of project funds had been disbursed by the original
Closing Date, December 31, 1976. However, the project encountered two years
of implementation delays (Chart I), because it became necessary to find
viable replacements for project schools which had to be excluded because
of difficulties in convincing some communities of the concept of comprehensive
community schools and of consolidation of existing schools. In spite of these
difficulties, civil works of 21 of the 27 project institutions were completed
by mid-1976 (Chart II)--12 months after the original target date. In order to
expedite project implementation the Government requested and the Bank agreed
to changes in the basic composition of the project (see para. 2.25). The
Closing Date was extended twice (until June 30, 1978 and finally until
December 31, 1978), and actual implementation took seven years, or 40 percent
longer, than the originally envisaged five years. The conditions of effective-
ness were the establishment and operation of a Project Unit and execution and
delivery of the Loan Agreement on behalf of the Borrower. Satisfactory
evidence to this effect was furnished to the Bank, and the Loan was declared
effective on November 24, 1971, sixteen days after the original date set for
effectiveness.
Project Management Performance
3.02      Loan 785-IRE was the first Bank assisted education project in
Ireland. In accordance with the Loan Agreement the project was executed under
the overall direction of a Project Unit established within the Building Unit
of the DOE. The director of the Building Unit would serve as Project Director
on a part-time basis, supported by a Deputy Project Director, a Project
Architect and Project Educator, all appointed on a full-time basis. The
Project Unit 1/ was responsible for administration and coordination of all
component parts of the project.  This arrangement, proposed by the Borrower
on the basis of past experience and worked out with the Bank during appraisal
and negotiations, proved very satisfactory.
3.03      In particular, the input of the Project Unit educators has had a
significant impact upon successful implementation of the project. As integral
members of the project management team they:
1/   This Project Unit is also in charge of implementing the Second Education
Project (Loan 959-IRE).



- 21 -
(a) developed education worksheets for specifying and
quantifying teaching spaces and briefing architects
on the purpose and use of such techniques;
(b) prepared educational specifications for facilities to
be constructed, advising the Project Unit architects
and the entire design team on all educational matters
to ensure that the briefs were fully understood;
(c) checked architectural drawings to see that space
provisions, interrelationship of spaces, and educa-
tional specifications were correctly interpreted;
(d) organized resource personnel to prepare basic equip-
ment and furniture lists, review furniture designs,
and supervise installation of equipment; and
(e) advised school administrations on proper utilization
of all resources provided.
Impact on School Building Policy
3.04      Prior to the establishment of the Building Unit in the DOE there
was no established national policy on school buildings, and design/construc-
tion of educational facilities were rather haphazard. Buildings were designed
without an adequate input of educators, located without sufficient attention
to educational planning objectives or the catchment areas they were to serve.
Buildings were to a large extent uneconomical, with high ceilings, single-
loaded corridors, expensive materials, and very little standardization of
teaching accommodations. They were also small in size and enrollment capa-
city. Following the establishment of the Building Unit, the buildings were
better planned and cost-control features were effectuated, resulting in the
lowering of construction costs from E 7.00 per sq. ft. to E 5.50 per sq. ft.
The appraisal mission saw institution building of the Building Unit as a
major objective of the project and proposed that it be strengthened to enable
it to: (i) evaluate and establish economic norms and educational specifica-
tions; (ii) introduce a systems approach to design and construction; and
(iii) integrate use of prefabricated or industrialized elements in the project
schools.
3.05      Rather than attempting to establish new administrative arrangements
to achieve the above objectives, the Bank agreed to the establishment of the
Project Unit as an integral part of the Building Unit and to concentrate its
efforts in institution building on an already established embryonic organiza-
tion. This decision proved very wise, and the Bank's supervision missions,
according to the staff of the Project Unit, contributed significantly in
developing the Building Unit into an efficient organization now capable of
appraising and supervising the design and construction of all levels of
educational institutions. Among the main achievements of the Project Unit
over the period of implementation of the project were:



- 22 -
(a) establishing the standards and systems approach to plan-
ning, design and construction;
(b) maintaining rigid control over capital costs of school
buildings, which resulted in significantly lower price
increases in school buildings than in all other sectors
of the construction industry;
(c) improving the general design of education facilities and
application of the lessons learned in the first phase of
the project to the subsequent phases and to the Second
Education Project and, more importantly, to all school
buildings planned or under construction;
(d) educating Irish architects in the latest planning, design
and construction of school buildings, thus developing an
important resource not only for Ireland but also for the
less developed countries;
(e) developing school furniture standards and designs based
upon latest anthropometric findings and providing impetus
for the development of a more effective school furniture
industry; and
(f) developing maintenance standards and procedures for a
full-fledged buildings and grounds maintenance program.
Sites
3.06      All building sites were acquired through voluntary purchase with the
exception of one which was acquired by local authorities through expropriation
procedures. In rural areas, a number of alternate sites were proposed by each
community in which a school was to be built for consideration by the Project
Unit, which made the final selection. In urban areas, the local authorities'
planning department selected the school sites as an integral part of their
overall development plans. All selected sites were found to be well located
and well suited to the requirements of the specific building program.
Evaluation of School Building Designs
3.07      In order to develop an economic prototype design for the community
schools in the project, a firm of consultants was retained to conduct a Master
Plan Study which was completed in September 1971. Their basic design approach
was accepted but with major improvements as a result of the effective input
of the Project Unit staff. The compact one-story plan enclosed with prefab-
ricated light steel framework and providing natural light through clerestory
windows was based upon a "Tartan Grid" system, with large spans related to
teaching areas and short spans to circulation and storage. Following approval
of the design by the Government and the Bank, the first 18 of the project's 25



- 23 -
community schools scrupulously followed the Master Plan concept and recom-
mendations. The same firm which developed the Master Plan was retained as the
architect-of-record for all 18 schools.
3.08      The Government proposed and the Bank agreed in 1974 that the long-
term institution-building objective of the project--strengthening of school
design policy and process and development of the school building industry--
would not be best served by continuous repetition of the Master Plan design
and the use of the same firm of consultants for all schools in the project.
To improve the overall design of school buildings while still maintaining
rigid control over building costs, the Project Unit held in mid-1974 an "ideas
competition" to stimulate new and creative approaches to the design of com-
munity schools. The jury, composed of the Chief Architect of the Building
Unit, two educators, a principal of a large community school, an architect
representing the Royal Institute of Architects of Ireland and an outstanding
foreign architect selected by the Project Unit, selected four winners out of
the 57 entries. The winner of the first award, was granted the commission to
design five project schools, and the winner of the second award, the design of
one school 1/. Another school was based on the revised design of the original
master plan. Since the objective of this competition was to gather new ideas
and to select the best qualified professional talent rather than to use the
plans unaltered in the project, the winning designs were altered and improved
by the architects-of-record and the architects of the Project Unit during the
design development phase. The competition was the first architectural com-
petition for educational facilities in Ireland, and it produced schools which
are both imaginative and well-suited to program requirements. It should be
noted, however, that this achievement was not without its cost. As a result
of the time lag while designs were being developed and architects selected
through the design competition, and the subsequent time required for design
development, during which building costs escalated, the costs of institutions
built in the latter phase of the program, were almost double that of the
similar institutions built in the first phase.
3.09      The Master Plan stage, which can be characterized as a period
of school design rationalization was superseded by the Ideas Competition
phase aimed at improving overall school design through experimentation.
The winning designs were used in the latter phases of construction of proj-
ect schools and in the first phase of the Second Education Project (Loan
959-IRE). The experimentation phase was carried to extremes when the
Government initiated a policy of hiring architects separately for each
specific school on the basis of interviews by the staff of the Building
Unit. Community and comprehensive schools presently under construction fol-
low a rigid accommodation standards policy and are subject to strict capital
cost control. Yet they exhibit a great range of architectural design concepts
1/   The principles of design which gained the first award are exemplified
in Annex 6. Similarly Annex 7 shows the design philosophy of the
second winner.



- 24 -
and a variety of building methods and materials, and many of them are excel-
lent. All school buildings in the project were constructed during years when
the building industry was relatively depressed and this, together with the
superb management of the project implementation by the Project Unit, resulted
in relatively low capital building costs. Recent high increases in the
building sector in Ireland have, however, reversed this trend and with con-
comitant increases in building costs call for a thorough reevaluation of
present building design and construction methods, policy and processes.
3.10      The serious fault with all building designs in the project lies in
the high energy consumption aspect. Basically there has been inadequate cost
provision to meet environmental (heating and ventilating) engineering needs.
Thus, in order to obtain a desired level of natural lighting within the school
at minimal capital costs, design features were introduced which will over the
life of the buildings significantly detract from their overall economy. Hind-
sight is, of course, the severest critic. The negative implications upon
future costs-in-use of project schools have been exacerbated by the interna-
tional energy crisis. Among the features which presently cause functional
discomfort and heat losses are:
(a) the extent of use of single-pane glass;
(b) inadequate roof insulation; and
(c) high consumption and maintenance heating systems.
Reappraisal and Evaluation
3.11      The need to conduct a full-scale evaluation study in order to
fully benefit from project experimentation experience as well as develop an
ongoing evaluation process in the Building Unit was discussed and agreed with
Education Department officials during the mission. It was agreed that the
plethora of school building designs constructed under both education projects
(Loan 785-IRE and 959-IRE) offers an opportunity to conduct an in-depth
reappraisal. An investigation into user reactions to alternate educational
spaces, as well as a detailed analysis of the true economy of the different
designs taking into account both capital building costs and costs-in-use,
would provide a much-needed evaluation. The major objectives of the proposed
study should, inter alia, be the following:
(a) Cost evaluation of building designs and mechanical and
structural systems to establish specifications most
advantageous to Ireland's economy. The evaluation
should include the cost-in-use over a specified mini-
mum life of school buildings and an agreed reasonable
rate of interest for projections of recurrent cost-in-use.
(b) Analysis of alternate means of heating and ventilating
school buildings with a view towards selecting the most



- 25 -
economical energy consuming systems, taking into account
user requirements, building designs, need for low cost
maintenance installations and the availability and cost
of energy.
(c) Examination of the advantages and disadvantages of single
versus multi-story construction of school buildings
taking into account costs of land and construction as
well as costs of maintenance and operations of the
schools.
(d) Study of the costs and benefits of natural lighting and
of artificial lighting with a view towards standardiza-
tion and rationalization of architectural designs.
(e) Evaluation of the methods of selecting and appointing
design team consultants--architects, quantity surveyors,
structural, mechanical and electrical engineers. Re-
examination of the architects' brief and the basis for
payment of consulting services with a view towards
improving the overall performance of the design team
taking into account recent developments in management
of construction and building costs.
(f) Reexamination of the role and responsibility of the
Building Unit and assessment whether its effectiveness
would not be increased by adding to its staff, specialists
from other related disciplines--e.g., construction manage-
ment, cost control, mechanical, electrical or structural
systems.
Construction
3.12      ICB was followed for all civil works.  All contracts were won by
local contractors and, although some foreign firms indicated initial interest
in the project, none participated in the bidding process. The quality of
construction is generally satisfactory, but certain design elements were
overlooked and supervision in some of the areas was inadequate, as exemplified
by the following design and construction faults:
(a) Built-up three-ply felt roofing broke up along roof
junctures caused by thermal expansion. Part of roofing
is presently being replaced and reinforced by bituminous
fabric. During a survey conducted by the Project Unit
to analyze user satisfaction, only 17 percent of adminis-
trators interviewed rated roofs as excellent, 33 percent
as good and as many as 50 percent felt that they were poor.



- 26 -
(b)  Noise levels among some classrooms with partitioning which
only reached the suspended ceiling level were high. The
undivided space between the bottom of the steel ribbed
roofing and the suspended ceiling forms an acoustical
chamber which transmits a certain level of noise from one
classroom to another. Of the school administrators inter-
viewed only 9 percent felt that the acoustical and sound
insulation properties were excellent, 27 percent felt them
to be good, but 64 percent believed them to be poor.
(c)  Location of sub-floor drainage systems with exposed traps
in corridors and public areas was criticized. The man-
holes were found to be not fully air-tight, thus requiring
constant maintenance. Exposed air-traps under toilets were
also a maintenance problem. Only 8 percent of principals
and staff interviewed found the drainage system sanitary
fittings and refuse disposal elements to be excellent, 42
percent found them good and 50 percent found them poor.
(d)  Among other items with which there was some dissatisfaction
was a lack of boundary walls (64 percent poor), inadequate
parking (18 percent poor), windows (50 percent poor),
internal doors and suspended ceilings (16 percent poor),
heating installation (42 percent poor), and landscaping
(45 percent poor).
Maintenance
3.13      Regular maintenance of the completed schools is generally satis-
factory, and adequate funds appear to be available to assure a continued
satisfactory level of maintenance. The principals, staff and the community
exhibit a sense of pride in their new school buildings and are encouraged
by the Ministry to make small alterations and improvements as appropriate.
Reported cases of vandalism have been rare, particularly among those community
schools which have community activities in the evenings. Buildings and
grounds of most institutions were found to be in excellent condition. The
Project Unit is presently revising the maintenance manual proposed by the
appraisal mission and prepared by consultants in order to simplify it and
make it more useful to the janitorial staff. The Building Unit is presently
searching for a qualified maintenance architect and has upgraded this post in
order to attract a fully experienced and qualified professional. In view of
the scope of investment in new school buildings over the last few years and
the sophisticated design, there appears to be an urgent need at this time to
establish an overall school building maintenance policy.
Furniture
3.14      The project was instrumental in improving standards of school
furniture in Ireland, and providing an efficient and economical range of
furniture to allow for a variety of teaching methods in the community schools.



- 27 -
The furniture was designed by the consulting architects and the Project Unit;
the consultants prepared drawings and specifications and were involved in the
evaluation of tenders. In designing the furniture the designers used the
results of anthropometric studies of the British Furniture Industry Research
Association. Prior to being manufactured, all prototypes of furniture under-
went extensive static and dynamic tests and were sent back for improvements as
various faults were discovered. Only after the prototypes passed the relevant
tests and the manufacturers complied with the recommendations were orders
placed and the items produced.
3.15      The furniture in the initial ten schools is generally satisfactory
and the feedback in use resulted only in certain minor modifications in
the design of furniture for the remaining project institutions as well as
for those in the Second Education Project, namely: (a) larger chalkboards
for certain teaching areas; (b) steel library shelves in lieu of wood;
(c) dual tables in lieu of single tables in general classrooms; (d) larger
student lockers; (e) inclusion of all fixed furniture in the main building
contract; and (f) some hardware improvements. An impressive achievement
of the Project Unit was the monitoring of the process of furniture design,
manufacture and installation and application of the lessons learned to sub-
sequently built schools, not only those in the project but throughout the
country.
Equipment
3.16      The Project Unit coordinated the inputs of various specialists in
preparing equipment lists for the project. The master lists were completed
by November 1972. Subsequent equipment procurement--fully based on ICB--has
been satisfactory; By December 1978--over six years after completion of the
master lists--100 percent of the equipment had been installed. This was
due to the fact that project schools were designed, built and equipped in
four phases. The first phase was completed in December 1973, the second in
December 1974, the third in March 1976, and the fourth in September 1978.
Schools were furnished and equipped according to schedule due in large part
to the efficiency of the procurement officers/educators in the Project Unit.
The following have been identified as having caused some minor problems:
(a) delays in the supply of forges, power saws and engineering
vises resulted from work slowdown in England, labor dis-
putes and strikes; and
(b) default on part of fume cupboard manufacturers to deliver
equipment on time and refusal to install them as agreed.
Some equipment arrived after the contractors left the sites,
others still remain to be installed.
3.17      The quality of equipment supplied to the schools has generally
been good. The return of completed questionnaires dealing with equipment
indicates that the equipment in laboratories and workshops is generally con-
sidered adequate. However, the mission found that the equipment provision



- 28 -
in the Loan for the regional training colleges was underestimated. This
was illustrated by the fact that the Regional Training College at Cork had to
be provided during the last two years with additional equipment at a cost of
about E 0.4 million.
Covenants
3.18      All covenants in the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled.
Bank Performance
3.19      Since the Loan was made effective the project was supervised
by eight Bank supervision missions, all but the first were combined with
appraisal and supervision of the Second Education Project. The supervision
effort totalled only some 40 days spent in the field--an average of about
seven days per year. The Borrower expressed satisfaction with the Bank's
implementation assistance in general and with the Bank's technical assistance
in particular. The Project Unit staff spoke of the:
(a) high caliber of supervision mission staff and their co-
operation and hard work;
(b) adequate notification of mission's objectives to allow for
proper preparation on part of the Project Unit staff;
(c) prompt comments and approval given by Bank throughout
the implementation period; and
(d) the Bank's willingness to make necessary modifications to meet the
educational objectives of the project.
3.20      The Mission was also informed that the Borrower's implementing
agency was well satisfied with the frequency and timing of the supervision
missions as well as their duration, although comments were received that
the latter would not have been adequate except for the fact that the mission
members were very experienced and worked extremely long hours. The credit
for the outstandingly efficient project implementation is also due to the
detailed and effective planning on part of the Borrower as well as the Bank
prior to the date of effectiveness. The Bank clearly recognized early in
the project cycle the Borrower's capability to prepare, evaluate and to a
large degree supervise this project, and it was this awareness that led to
adoption of a project monitoring strategy with a minimum of Bank intervention
which has proven very effective in the context of Ireland.



- 29 -
B. Educational Aspects
General Assessment
3.21      Implementation of the "software" aspects of the project has been
a rewarding feature: the relevant, competent and timely work done by the
project educators in conjunction with the project architects and the
specialist assistance sought and obtained from the operational sections
of the DOE, the staff of the technical institutes, and from other skill
sources has ensured effective operation and satisfactory standards not only
in the project schools but in the education training system as a whole.
The achievement of the educational objectives of the project schools could
have been better assessed if a student achievement and attitudinal study had
been built into the project from its inception. However, a great deal was
learned and applied in the definition, content and operational practices of
the second project. The management question, through basically unsolved, has
been dealt with in such a way that it is no longer an insurmountable obstacle
to the application of broad comprehensive programs in secondary education.
3.22      The agreed changes to the original project have been listed and
discussed (para. 2.25). Henceforth, this report will speak of the revised
project with references to the originally appraised project only when
significant questions may be raised or clarification needed.
Enrollments in the Project Schools
3.23      As appraised the project was to provide 21,910 places for an enroll-
ment of 22,160 taking into account facilities to be retained in existing
schools which were to be only partially replaced. After the changes mentioned
above, the revised figures were for the provision of 20,240 places for an
enrollment of 20,270. The details are shown in Annex 2 and summarized below:
Places                         Enrollments
Difference
Type of          Loan              Actual    Loan                         with
Institution      Agreement Revised Provided Agreement Revised Actual  Revised
Community
Schools          15,960  16,740  16,870    16,210   17,480  15,426   -2,054
Technical
Institutions      4,300   3,500   2,806       4,300    2,790   2,135       -655
Agricultural
Education
(Farmer Training)
Centers           1,650      -       -        1,650       -       -         -
TOTAL            21,910  20,240  18,676    22,160   20,270  17,561   -2,709
3.24      Enrollments in the community schools have still not reached the
target because:  (a) two schools have not yet completed the five-year
cycle; (b) two schools are likely to remain under-utilized for the present
as the new housing development areas in which they are located are behind



- 30 -
schedule in construction; and (c) in some areas not all the schools scheduled
for consolidation have as yet entered the scheme or some children from feeder
schools are electing to go to other secondary schools. On the other hand,
some of the project community schools are already beginning to feel the
effects of overcrowding. In this case this does not mean oversized classes.
Class groups in the project schools are almost all below the standard 30;
the average class size is 25 in the first cycle and 22 in the second cycle.
Principals have preferred the smaller class group though this means more class
groups in the school. Hence, there is a growing problem of over-utilization
of some classroom spaces or an apparent inadequacy in the number of academic
spaces available. This question of apparent shortage is becoming more acute
as principals, who have full discretionary powers in these matters, introduce
more and more new subjects into the curriculum to broaden the choices avail-
able to each student. In the senior school, classes are provided even when
only 8 or 10 students elect for an optional subject. The schedules of
accommodation of the community school were not arrived at on this basis and
problems will arise if there is not some measure of restraint applied. For
the present the flexibility of the building design and the well-conceived
interrelationship between the academic and the "social" spaces which makes
some quiet corners available meet the occasional additional requirement for
teaching spaces.
3.25      Annex 5 shows the growth of enrollment, projected and planned
for the period 1974/75 through 1978/79. The discrepancies are substantial
only in the case of the two largest schools in the program and in the case
of some of the smaller rural schools, and two of the medium-sized schools
in the urban area. The deficits may not be made good quickly unless a
stricter zoning regulation were to be applied. The zoning principle may be
difficult to apply for many years to come in Ireland, yet it is revealing how
a number of principals of the project schools have negotiated with neighbor-
ing schools to arrive at agreed boundaries for delimitation of catchment
boundaries. In this and in so many other respects, the mission came away
from Ireland with the conviction that many of the "impossible-of-solution"
problems in the Irish education scene are gradually being dealt with by
principals and school managers in the field through establishment of a serious
dialogue in the interests of children.



- 31 -
3.26      The two remaining technical institutions in the project, the Cork
Regional Technical College (RTC) and the Limerick School of Engineering
of the Limerick Technical College present the problems of enrollments and
class size in a more acute form. The table shows the growth of enrollment
in the Cork RTC:
1973-74  1974-75  1975-76  1976-77  1977-78  1978-79
Whole-time courses            481       584      869       877       833      848
Block-release courses       1,002    1,192    1,486    1,387    1,202    1,236
Day-release courses           647       720      657       753       824    1,012
Short-intensive courses        13       28        78       110       138      150
Total                     2,143    2,524    3,059    3,135    2,997    3,246
Estimated full-time
equivalency                 980    1,160    1,560    1,580    1,550    1,653
3.27      It is not yet, therefore, working at full capacity although the
teaching staff consider they are working at full stretch.  The paradox can be
explained. Firstly: 19 percent of the class groups have less than 9 students
(some with only 2 or 3 and in particular the apprenticeship classes are too
small), a further 40 percent of the classes have 10 to 14 students. Some of
the reasons for this are brought out in Annex 9 which shows enrollments by
course and year of study over a three-year period. Classes in the regular
courses in the second year are comparatively small. There is considerable
wastage (30 to 40 percent) which the mission was told occurs mainly in the
first six weeks of the first year when newly-enrolled students leave to go to
University or into jobs as these become available. In view of the very large
number of applicants turned away each year, the question may be asked why the
authorities do not admit a larger quota into the first-year program knowing
full well that the class size will become normal within a few weeks. More-
over, the third-year course, the Diploma Course, is open only to those
graduates of the regular two-year course who achieve the required high
standard. Furthermore, some of the high caliber graduates prefer to go into
a job (now that jobs appear plentiful). A further suggestion which may be
made is that the RTC take two groups of 15 to 25 each into some of its
courses (e.g., electrical engineering) instead of one, as was originally
planned. The spaces are available.
3.28      The Limerick School of Engineering also could increase its enroll-
ment in the regular courses by accepting a larger percentage of the ample
applications for admission it receives (Annex 9).
3.29      Annex 5 also shows the distribution of enrollment in the community
schools by sex and by cycle of studies. Some 70 percent of enrollments are
in the first or junior cycle and 30 percent in the senior or second cycle.



- 32 -
There should be a better balance in the future as the progression rate
improves from the present 65 percent or so. Girls in the first cycle
represent only 42 percent of enrollments reflecting the tradition of Irish
parents' preference for convent (secondary) schools for their daughters. On
the other hand, the girls predominate (nearly 59 percent) in the second cycle
reflecting the continuation of the earlier movement of boys into jobs. It is
likely that this imbalance will not persist in view of the increasing impor-
tance of the school leaving certificate for higher education opportunities for
the growing range of job opportunities. Overall total actual enrollments in
the community schools are 53 percent boys and 47 percent girls as compared
with the appraisal projection of 50 percent for each. It is interesting to
observe that the percentage of girls is lowest in the schools in the new
housing areas and the urban areas.
The Students
3.30      Two points may be made in a general way about the students attend-
ing the community schools. Firstly, in all schools, though more so in some
of them than in others, there is a trend toward reaching a normal range of
ability groupings and a growing proportion, which does not differ noticeably
from that in the normal private secondary schools, of the children of the
whole range of socio-economic background. Secondly, most of the community
schools now seem to be attracting up to 90 percent of the eligible children
from their immediate neighborhood even where a selective private secondary
school may be in competition. It was gratifying to hear the principals
express their satisfaction of the improvement in parental and child accept-
ance of the community school.
3.31      In regard to the above we may quote the evidence of a sample of
five schools in which parents' occupations seem to be representative of
a national cross-section: 13 percent professional; 25 percent white collar;
32 percent skilled workers; and 30 percent semi-skilled and laborers. In two
schools in the rural areas, the cross section again was representative of the
catchment area with farmers' and farm workers' children predominating.
Curriculum Developments
3.32      The objectives and nature of the community school curriculum have
been discussed earlier. It appeared to the mission that the staff of the
schools have applied the principles intelligently, competently and flexibly.
The variety and high quality of students' work seen in painting, art and
crafts, metal, wood, ceramics, graphics, etc., in all the schools were impres-
sive particularly as these were not display pieces.
3.33      In the academic work many teachers are particularly interested in
preparing their own materials to complement the textbooks used. In addition
the principals and staff in all the schools have shown considerable interest
in introducing innovatory programs. The community schools, in fact, are
fulfilling another of the stated objectives in assuming the leading role in
the experimental programs which the DOE curriculum development agencies have
wished to have carried out. The more important of these are the "Social and



- 33 -
Environmental Studies Project" (SESP), the "Integrated Sciences Curriculum
Project" (for the first cycle students), and the "Humanities Program" (inte-
gration of English, history, geography and civics). In all these experiments
the main objective is to provide more opportunities to students for self-
activity and for group cooperation. Teachers are stimulated to make their
teaching approach increasingly less rigidly academic. The aim is toward a
flexibly-structured classroom situation and a more integrated or inter-
disciplinary approach to learning. Special materials have been produced
for these experimental studies, and what is of equal significance is the fact
that these materials and teaching approaches have been reworked to make them
suitable for use by the groups doing remedial work.  Some of the schools hold
make-up classes in the summer vacation. This aspect of the work of the com-
munity schools is of extreme significance in the aim of assuring all children
every opportunity to find their way.  In addition to a counsellor, all the
schools have a teacher or teachers who have received a year's training in
remedial work, a program of teacher training having been started for this
purpose after Loan Agreement. This special provision in the non-selective
community school is essential if the slow learners, who are estimated to
form 15 to 20 percent of the total enrollment, are to be given a chance.
3.34      The community schools are responding to the needs of special groups
too by establishing what are called "pre-employment" (industrial trades)
classes and special secretarial courses up to one year in duration. Both are
for grade 9 graduates who do not wish to go on with the regular studies which
lead on to the School Leaving Examination in grade 11. They are interested
in getting a job the soonest. The courses, therefore, are heavily practical.
The principals too have been active and successful in finding firms which
will accept these students for one day a week for practical on-the-job train-
ing. This element of the course has become popular with the students and
employers; many students are, in fact, taken into permanent or apprenticeship
employment by their sponsors. The positive approach of the community schools
to these special needs is highly commendable. Some traditional and vocational
schools are beginning to follow the example.
3.35      It is of interest, too, to find that there is in the community and
vocational schools an accelerating trend for students to cross the traditional
subject barriers whereby certain subjects were considered only as boys' sub-
jects (wood and metal), others only for girls (home economics). A similar
beginning is found in some of the girls' secondary schools, an increased num-
ber of which have now begun to admit boys also, a real change from the tradi-
tional single sex secondary school. A measure of the effect of the new
community school curriculum on the traditional secondary schools is reflected
in the number of candidates now presented in the Intermediate Examination by
the secondary schools in the practical subjects:



- 34 -
Percent of All                Percent of All
Traditional School              Community School
Examined in                     Candidates                     Candidates
Woodwork                           17                              29
Metal                              11                              24
Mechanical drawing                 21                              39
Home economics                     37                              41
Science                            69                              75
Commercial                         55                              40
3.36      Moreover, in the School Leaving Certificate Examinations in 1978
of the 18,250 papers taken in technical subjects by boys, 17,000 (93 percent)
were taken by secondary school students. The degree of acceptance of the
technical or practical subjects in these schools, therefore, is growing
rapidly as evidenced too by the fact that in 1972 there were a total of some
14,000 candidates in technical subjects but a total of 36,000 in 1978 (though
total enrollments in second level education had increased only from some
231,000 to 282,000).
3.37      The expanded range of programs in the project technical institutes
called for the development of new syllabi and the review of syllabi for exist-
ing programs. A Curriculum Advisory Committee was established under the joint
auspices of the DOE and AnCo; with the assistance of expert working parties
it oversaw the preparation of the programs for the new apprenticeship scheme
and the introduction of a new system of testing and certification. Moreover,
the principals and heads of departments of both technical institutes have
taken considerable care to seek advice from specialists in industry on main-
taining syllabi up-to-date.
Academic Standards and Examinations
3.38      It was not possible for the mission to observe classes in opera-
tion or examine workbooks of the students because the visits to schools
occurred during the examinations period. Some idea of standards could be
gained only by reviewing the past examination records of the community
schools. This assessment is, however, subject to the qualification that
until 1978 the majority of candidates presented for the school leaving
examination (grade 11) by the project schools were transferees from other
schools. Moreover, all the schools were still concerned with the crucial
questions of integration of students and teachers. In these circumstances
the record of the project schools is satisfactory and promises more as the
schools settle down. The table below compares the results in some subjects
of the project schools with those of other schools in 1978:



- 35 -
In 22       In 15 Non-Project  National
Candidates Passing                 Project Schools  Community Schools  Average
------------------ Percent ---------
5 or more subjects                         85                 67             90
Mathematics                                68                 68             72
Engineering workshop                       85                 68             89
Building construction                      81                 68             79
Technical drawing                          70                 68             58
Progression and School Leavers
3.39      Though not all the project community schools are yet in full stride--
that is, all with their own students who have gone through the school's full
five-year course--the movement of the school leavers shows little difference
from the national average of all second level schools, but the progression
rate from first to second cycle is below the national average.
3.40      In fact, the progression rate varied considerably in 15 project
schools sampled (from 35 percent to 90 percent with the majority in the 60
percent to 80 percent range). It would seem that the tendency for the less
able children to leave school at grade 9 continues, as also the tradition of
the vocational school student to take a job when the opportunity presents
itself and pass up further study. The latest progression rates for 1977 are
interesting and reveal that the community schools have not reached the high
rate of retention of the secondary schools but show a considerably higher rate
than the vocational schools' rate:
Total
Type of School                                  Boys       Girls    _verage
-------- percent     
Community/comprehensive                          62          73        67.5
Vocational schools                               40          51        44.0
Secondary schools                                87          87        87.0
All schools                                      69          80        74.5
3.41      A survey was carried out in 1978 by the project unit which accounted
for about 76 percent of total school leavers in 1977; it included 1981 leavers
from 21 community/ comprehensive schools of which 12 were project schools.
The movement of the leavers into jobs and higher studies is shown in Annexes
10 and 11.  Over 20 percent of the project school leavers went on to higher
education studies, a rate almost as high as that of the secondary schools.
The Regional Technical Colleges were more favored by the community school
leavers. This flow reflects the success of the community schools in achieving
one of the intended objectives--to promote interest in technician training
among second level education graduates.



- 36 -
3.42      In terms of finding jobs, the community school leavers did almost
as well as those of the secondary schools; only 11 percent did not find jobs
or stayed at home as compared with 9 percent of the traditional secondary
school leavers. However, this may be explained by the fact that a number of
the community schools are situated in the less developed areas where local
job opportunities are more limited. It is of interest to find that some 11
percent of school leavers (secondary, vocational and community) go into
apprenticeship programs.
3.43      As brought out in para 3.27 the graduates of the two project techni-
cal institutes have no problem in finding jobs related to their studies.
In fact, the problem is to restrain employers from enticing students away
before completion of their studies. According to sources consulted employers
believe that the project post-secondary technician training institutes have
achieved adequate and appropriate standards; the types of programs satisfy
practical requirements of the employers.
The Facilities
3.44      In support of the social and equity dimension of the comprehensive
concept, the educational brief to guide the consultant architects in their
design concept urged serious consideration to the problem of achieving a
certain pattern of interrelationships of spaces within a school: the aim
would be to foster the generation of a cohesive social atmosphere; the stud-
ents should be helped to form personal relationships which cut across barriers
of apparent social status and of variations in the program orientations; they
should be encouraged to participate in cooperative educational and social
activities. The designs have in all cases sought to apply this principle
and seem to have succeeded in their purpose.
3.45      The spaces provided in all instances had been carefully thought out
by specialist educators working together with the architects before and during
the design stage. The successfully functional and imaginative work done in
this respect deserves the highest commendation. An excellent example of this
aspect of implementation is the way in which the library and other resource
areas are so conveniently related to each other and to the general teaching
spaces. The combination of the drama room and the assembly hall to form a
theater type single space whenever required is another example. In certain
cases, as at the Limerick School of Engineering, some excellent conversion
work of one or two spaces has been carried out to meet the requirements of
special courses or content of a course which could not have been foreseen in
detail beforehand. In all schools, the mission was impressed by the imagina-
tive use of spaces by the principals.
3.46      The juxtaposition of the art and crafts areas to form a large semi-
open plan or even open plan area for easy movement of students in a variety
of related group activities as also of the junior school wood/metal workshop
complex or the home economics complex points up the philosophy of an integrated
curriculum in related activities to the extent possible rather than the tradi-
tional single subject approach.



- 37 -
3.47      The test of the design concepts as applied is in the response of
students, principals and teachers according to whom the environment is pleas-
ant, helpful to learning and socialization; it facilitates administration at
school and grade and group level. The total effect is supported by the appro-
priateness, adequacy and generally high quality of the equipment and the
furniture provided. Apart from some minor disappointments the equipment and
furniture meet the requirements of the curriculum and students and teachers.
Again on the initiatve of the project educators and architects, the inspec-
torate, specialists and teachers in the schools (such as the two technical
institutes) helped to prepare satisfactory equipment lists or recommended
furniture design.
3.48      Some errors were made, however.  Two errors stem from inadequate
apportionment of funds at appraisal. The equipment expenditures allowed for
the Cork RTC were quite inadequate, even if allowance is made for equipment
carried over from the old college. Secondly, no allowance was made for
library books in any of the project schools. At the time of appraisal this
was a permissible item for inclusion in the appraisal costs (though text-
books were not). As a result, the large and essential libraries in the
schools are only just building up a stock. The library area in all project
institutions is well-used but is not yet the resource center it should be.
3.49      The first group of community schools had no sports hall, but a
very small gymnasium. The sports hall could have been considered a luxury
and left over for more prosperous times. However, it was realized that a
sports hall could be the catalyst in the effort to bring the community into
the school and to make the school a community service center. The Bank showed
commendable understanding and flexibility in responding positively when the
question was raised by the Irish authorities for the schedules of accommoda-
tion to be amended to allow for a sports hall. The popularity and need of
the sports hall is attested by the fact that many of the first group of schools
have now built and equipped their own sports halls with funds raised by the
community.
3.50      The serious approach of the project implementation group is seen in
its activities during the enforced break in the period between construction
of the first group of schools and the preparation of new designs under the
"ideas competition." The furniture and equipment lists prepared and supplied
for the first phase schools were revised in conformance with the feedback from
the functioning project schools; some of the layout designs were revised also.
For example, the static booth type language laboratory was changed to a flexi-
bly furnished room with movable simple individual equipment. Specifications
for some equipment which had been found to be not strong enough for school
use were revised. The feedback and detailed observation in visits to the
operating schools were put to good effect in preparing the new brief for the
"ideas competition"; the meaningful experiences of the staff and students
were incorporated into the new designs and into the schedules and design of
the schools in the Second Education Project.



- 38 -
Utilization of Facilities
3.51      Visits to the project schools gave the impression that the teachers
of the project schools know how to use and do use the equipment provided and
students are definitely engaged in practical work in the practical learning
spaces. Adequate quantities of materials, reagents and specimens are avail-
able to the project schools. It cannot be said, however, that the modern
teaching methodologies are unique to the project institutions. Teachers in
the "control" school also appear to be confident with equipment and audio-
visual aids. The difference seems to be in the fact that the project schools
are fully equipped in all areas whereas there are shortcomings in the quantity
and quality of appropriate teaching spaces and equipment available to the
control school teachers.
3.52      As brought out earlier, the accommodation is well-utilized though
there is some under-utilization (70 to 80 percent, and as low as 60 percent in
one school) in the schools which have not reached their enrollment capacity or
where many class groups are below strength. The project group has developed
the Bank educational worksheet into an instrument to measure utilization and
this is regularly applied in both project and non-project schools; private
schools request the assistance of the project group to assess the extent and
type of expansion they may need and economies they can effect through better
utilization or conversion of existing facilities. A survey of utilization of
the Cork RTC where the staff consider the accommodation provided as inadequate
provides some interesting points. The capacity of the college on construction
was for 2,700--the schedule being made on the basis of a 40-hour operational
week for the day classes as requested by the Irish authorities. Subsequent
to construction it was agreed that a 40-hour week was not feasible if evening
classes were to be given adequate attention. The Bank accepted the norm
of a 35-hour week, and this reduced the capacity of the college to 2,216.
The survey showed average utilization factors of a low 72 percent for class-
rooms, a tight 85 percent for technical drawing rooms, and a very low 51
percent for the special practical areas despite the fact that enrollments are
below capacity. The same survey concluded that all the teaching areas have
been well-planned and are generally used for the activities for which they
were designed. Some differences from the original curriculum, however, have
required some rethinking of the use of some spaces. The course in textiles
was discontinued during the recession when the textile industry demand for
manpower fell. Applicants for the distributive trades were too few to justify
the launching of a program and the special spaces for this are now used for
other teaching purposes.
3.53      The Limerick College of Engineering will improve on its present
utilization factors of 77.5 percent for classrooms and 63 percent for work-
shops when enrollments reach the target figure. Some problems have been
encountered because the original schedule was drawn up for an institution of
800 capacity for the training of skilled workers at secondary level; in fact
the institution is training technicians at post-secondary level and is parti-\.
cipating in the apprenticeship and worker upgrading programs. The effective
capacity in this case (and again on the basis of a 35-hour not 40-hour week)
is 590. Some excellent conversions of spaces have been carried out by the
College itself in view of the change of objectives.



- 39 -
3.54      There is little doubt that the space norms and the scheduling
process made for adequate accommodation, particularly in the community
schools in which the actual gross construction area was increased over
the appraisal proposal by some 20 percent (Annex 12); the greater part of
the addition was to provide the important social areas and the sports hall.
Teachers
3.55      Teachers in the project schools are fully qualified and there
is a good balance of newly trained teachers and experienced teachers; the
latter are for the most part on the younger side (under 40) as are the
principals and deputy principals. This may account for the dynamism and
the enthusiasm observed in the schools. The special courses in 1973 and
1974 held initially for the project school teachers have also helped to
instill commitment so that turnover is not high, except where teachers
who gain experience in one community school gain promotion posts in other
community schools. There are no problems in recruitment of teachers,
attributed, it was understood, to favorable reports in the media regarding
the schools.
3.56      Special and intensive courses were held for vice-principals in
administrative principles and practice, flexible organizational structure
and program patterns, planning and budgetting techniques, time-tabling
and scheduling. The courses were conducted by the National Institute for
Public Administration. A similar course was held for principals. As a
result, the competence of the principals and vice-principals was most
impressive.
3.57      The oversupply of teachers in the project schools has been referred
to earlier (para. 2.25 (e)). There should be some effort to advise principals,
counsellors and teachers to be somewhat more circumspect in introducing too
many new subjects resulting in small uneconomic class groups in the senior
cycle of the schools.
Community Activities
3.58      From the outset the community school was conceived as a community
service center. This is in fact one of the most significant and successful
features of the work of the community schools. Adult education in Ireland,
it must be observed, has been a traditional feature of the vocational
school activities, but these activities have been comparatively limited in
range and purpose. Today the concept of adult education has broadened to be
considered a part of an integrated education system.  The community school
has become the main exponent of this new concept.
3.59      The staff of the community schools have honored this commitment
although no budgetary provision is specifically made to the schools to
meet the financial obligations incurred (heat, power, materials). The
fees to the tutors are met by the small fee (US$6-8 p.a.) paid by the
adults attending the evening and day classes. Both the urban and the



- 40 -
rural schools actively seek to extend their services. As many as 70 programs
may be offered. A few schools have enrollments in the classes and activities
of over 3,000, most have over 1,000 (in both cases excluding the large number
of organized clubs or groups who use the sports hall facilities in the after-
noons, evenings and all day Saturdays and Sundays).
3.60      The rural schools are to be commended.  They organize classes and
have good attendances despite the problems of distances to be covered by their
participants and difficulty in finding specialist tutors in the rural areas
for the broad variety of programs offered. In the urban areas and new housing
areas, the community school seems to have had a very positive role to play in
helping to bring about the integration of groups coming from different parts
of the country and cities and of different socio-economic backgrounds; a
community spirit has been fostered with the school as its focal point. The
services offered to the community and rendered to the school by the community
are many and varied. The school serves as a center for community meetings,
for public concerts, plays, etc., and for the activity of community voluntary
organizations and advisory services. It provides formal and non-formal educa-
tional programs; formal in those cases where the aim is a public examination,
e.g., school leaving certificate; non-formal in language learning, home mana-
gement courses, hobby and leisure time courses and activities, games and keep-
fit classes, baby and child care courses, creche classes.
3.61      At least two of the project community schools have organized adult
literacy classes. These are proving very successful perhaps because they have
been discreetly organized and volunteers have been found in the community to
act as tutors on a one-to-one basis. Some 300 adult illiterates are being
served by one school; no dropouts are reported. The success had led to the
establishment of some basic (elementary) classes and to "teach your child to
read" classes.
3.62      The communities, not just the parents, have responded well to the
overtures of the staff and have helped the schools quite substantially with
funds for special requirements (the sports hall in some cases, equipping a
stage for dramatic performances, a minibus), providing volunteers for special
tutoring courses, helping with the layout of grounds, with the care of handi-
capped citizens, etc. The mission considers the community service function of
the community schools, which has now taken root in many secondary schools
also, so important that it recommends a case study be carried out to analyze
the approach and evaluate the results. A great deal may be learned by the
Bank and member countries on the realization of a concept which is so often
set as an objective but which has rarely been converted into a successful
reality. As an indication of the extensive nature and objectives of the
community activities the mission attaches the prospectus of one school which
now has some 3,000 adult education participants (Annex 13).
Recurrent Expenditures of Project Institutions
3.63      The appraisal projected that total public education expenditures
would grow from 4.6 percent of GNP in 1968 to 7 percent in 1980 (8.6 percent



- 41 -
per annum in real terms) in line with expected development in most West
European countries. This was considered within the financial capabilities of
the country. By 1976 total education expenditures had reached a reasonable
5.9 percent of GNP. Recurrent education expenditures were projected to
increase from E48 million in 1968 to U141 million in 1980 (a 9.4 percent per
annum growth in real terms). Recurrent education expenditures in 1978 were
E316 million or 197 million in 1968 terms. Additional expenditures would be
a factor of enrollment expansion but also of the quality improvements and
student services introduced, the increased emphasis on technical and science
studies, and improvement in primary teacher/student ratios.  However, substan-
tial economies were expected from the consolidation programs and reduced
teacher/student ratios. These expectations were only partly fulfilled.
3.64      Unit recurrent costs were projected as shown below; in the case
of the actual project community schools' unit costs compared with those of
secondary schools:
Appraisal
Actual    Projection         Actual   Estimate
Type of                     1968      for 1980           1977      1978
Institution                     I       __ I                            E
Secondary school               109         240 (83 at       359      408 (118 at
1968                      1968
prices)                    prices)
Vocational school               -           -               470       539
Community school                -           -               419      441
Regional technical college    -            480              747    1,024
University                      -           -             1,220    1,201
3.65      At appraisal, total recurrent expenditures were placed at E4.5
million when the schools are in full operation, or about 3 percent of pro-
jected national recurrent education expenditures. In 1979 expenditures on the
project schools (the revised list) are estimated to be of the order of E8.5
million or about 2.5 percent of the national budgetary allocations for 1979.
With the additional enrollments expected in the project schools in 1979 and
1980, the appraisal estimate of 3 percent of total recurrent expenditures is
about right, despite the fact that the teacher supply in the project schools
is considerably more than the appraisal could have foreseen.
3.66      As expected the unit recurrent cost of the community school is
higher than that of the secondary school. Two points need to be taken into
consideration here: (a) the community schools do have a broader range of
curriculum offerings of the more costly kind and have, for the present at



- 42 -
least, much larger adult education programs which bear on operation and main-
tenance. (It should be noted that it is not possible to separate the addi-
tional costs caused by adult education and consequently these appear in the
(public expenditures) unit costs shown above.)
3.67      A sample study of community school budgets showed that the balance
between expenditures on salaries and other operational costs is a satisfactory
one and adequate funds are made available to each school annually for purchase
of materials for use in the laboratories and workshops, for replacement/repair
of apparatus and equipment and for ordinary maintenance purposes.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Capital Cost
4.01      The project cost was estimated by the appraisal mission at US$33.03
million or L13.76 million. The actual cost of the project was US$43.39 mil-
lion or E20.18 million. The Bank provided US$13.0 million and the Government
the balance of US$30.39 million.
4.02      In summary, total expenditures were IE20.18 million against an esti-
mated E13.76 million, or an overrun in local currency of 46.6 percent. Since,
however, the funds provided in the Loan for construction and equipping of the
agricultural education centers and for technical assistance were used towards
the cost of the comprehensive schools and the technical institutions, the
actual overrun over appraisal estimates is 53.1 percent (Annex 3). The
appraisal underestimation of contingencies and of the cost of equipment
combined with the extremely high and unanticipated world-wide inflation in the
period 1974-78, accounts for the increase in the total project cost. Were it
not for efficient project implementation and favorable construction market
conditions in Ireland during project implementation, cost overruns would
undoubtedly have been higher. The estimated and actual project costs I/ by
category of expenditures are summarized in the following table:
1/   In this table the estimated costs refer to the entire project as
approved (i.e. including the three components technical assistance,
college of commerce and agricultural education centers which were
subsequently deleted); however, the actual costs are for the project
as completed.



- 43 -
Percent
Percent of                       of
Category of           Appraisal Estimate/l  Estimated   Actual Costs/2   Actual
Expenditure               (US$ million)         Total      (US$ million)    Total
I Civil Works and
Site Development
(incl. Prof. Fees)    27.38                  82           34.96            81
II Furniture and
Equipment               5.55                 17            8.43            19
III Technical
Assistance              0.10                  1             -               -
TOTAL             33.03                100           43.39           100
/1   Rate of Exchange:  1.00 = US$2.40
/2 Average Rate of Exchange: 1.00 = US$2.15
Unit Space Allocation Per Student
4.03      Gross areas per student place/l are approximately as follows:
Type of                                   Gross Unit Areas in m2
Institution                          Appraisal      Actual      Difference
(percent)
Community/comprehensive schools             6.13         7.34          20
Technical institutions                      8.95        10.94          22
Average                                6.48         7.85          21
The increase in average unit areas per student place in the comprehensive
schools appears to be chiefly the result of the Government's decision to pro-
vide bigger physical education facilities to serve both school and community
and larger social areas than agreed at the time of appraisal. Both enhanced
the educational and social aspects (see para. 3.49) of the buildings, and the
Mission agrees they were necessary. In the case of the technical institutions,
the increase is due to a reassessment of programs and corresponding space
needs after appraisal.
Unit Costs Per Place
4.04      The unit costs per student place shown below increased with each
stage of construction showing the effect of the high worldwide inflation during
/1   Refers to capacity, not actual enrollment.



- 44 -
project implementation. It must be noted that the costs per student place
cover all expenditures including contingencies and professional fees (the
latter two not generally used in estimating unit costs). Given the quality
and quantity of the educational spaces and the furniture and equipment pro-
vided, they are considered reasonable. Unit costs per place are approximately
as follows:
Cost per Student Place in US$11
Phase I & II   Phase III & IV   Phase V & VI   Average
Type of Institution      1973/74          1975/76           1977/78       1973-78
Comprehensive schools    1,784             2,116             2,769         2,042
Technical institutions   3,120             3,401               --          3,178
/1   Average exchange rate:  El.00 = US$2.15.
Disbursements
4.05      Estimated and actual disbursements are shown graphically in Chart 1.
Disbursements lagged behind appraisal estimates due to delays in implementation
but there were no problems connected with making disbursements. A comparison
of actual withdrawals with appraisal estimates is shown by semester in Annex
4 and by years in the following table:
Disbursements Per Year            Cumulative Disbursements
Planned  Percent  Actual   Percent                         Percent
Calendar      (US$)     of       (US$)      of      Planned  Actual  Actual of
Year     (million)  Total  (million)  Total    --(US$million)-   Planned
1971       0.21       1.6       -        -          0.21       -          -
1972       1.82      14.0      0.60     4.6         2.03      0.60      29.6
1973       4.37      33.6      2.90    22.3         6.40      3.50     54.7
1974       2.65      20.4      3.30    25.4         9.05      6.80      75.1
1975       2.64      20.3      2.00    15.4        11.69      8.80     75.3
1976       1.31      10.1      2.40    18.5        13.00    11.20      86.2
1977        -          -       1.00     7.7          -       12.20      93.8
1978        -          -       0.80     6.1          -       13.00    100.0



- 45 -
4.06      The following table shows the actual total disbursements from
the Loan by category of expenditures:
Original             Actual             Percent
Type of Expenditures    Allocation         Disbursements              of
---------(US$ million)--------           Original
I  Civil Works           7.70                 9.65                125
II Furniture and
Equipment           3.72                3.35                  90
III Technical Assis-
tance               0.08                 -                     _
IV  Unallocated           1.50                  -                    -
TOTAL            13.00               13.00                100



IRELAND - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT - LOAN 785 IRE
COMPLETION REPORT
ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS                                                                                                               U.S. s
_______________________               _______________________   _______________________          ________________________   M illionsn
1971               1972                1973               1974               1975                1976                1977                1978                1979
1 2 3 4            1    241      2              3 4       1   2     34        1134               1334                1       3     4    1             4     10 
lCIVL WORKS                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12- t0CXUtSC
I-v
Site Acquisition and Survey                        soiii     III INS ii i iii i ii I        ol l eal ***Bigi IIIE   All Is go all             urn Im   s,
Design and Layouts                      _  _  _                  *.. __   _     a _        _    _    . _     ur mm. m                     ur_ 
Preparation of lender Documents                                       f                                                       I II I I I I  B I   I I I  A I a ImI ad   m  u
________inPeo                    _     _        _               _I.||                            _      2         2         2     5           7    |                     t    I|1I||F  _   _   _             _ _ _ 7
lenderigo and Awards                                         _                  _         m   a                                                   I u
Tender Documents____-_  -----/-----T---- -E ""                                                                                               --'T"'-""-"'-"' -+    _  __ -8. 3 0
Constructrion Period                      _s e                                                   a me u      og m.    ess       mm _so        s   a _  s        ea poll un rs us  oan ll is-
_ _______ _____ Actual         _   - -            -  -  -  --  --  7.0
Guarantee Period                                                                                        sellm   m  -   loll As loll fell east sell Noel mI   so   an   molossissishollis    s      sWr a            2
--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6.0
-EOUIPMENT AND FURNITURE   ------------ a                                                                  ---    --                    -----5.0
-  --_____              a    -                                                                                                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.0
Preparation of Master Litst and                              m         m m       m         m m           m m
Tender Documents                                                                                              mi. milIlIlIl1116 I    lIl
Contract Awards                                                                to-   Allerse          III  ~                  B s**  ll 1 $lIu I too as. mm.   ouisl NOR
Delive,V and lnsiallation                                        as   i~~~~~~sItollh pll em IIulose loul  ainsus. us, Illl 35 Illes    ll oll seaIIgoall lii Il
_____   _______                                     -                                    I:------10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
Guararntee Period                                                                                                           ...u....giiIsuhum    l   l   115135II    i   l    ul.5elIl  i   i    l
Legend                                            Date ot Effectiveness                                                                                Original Closing Date                Actual Closing Date
Planned Imptemnentation        November 11. 1971                                                                                    December 31, 1976                   December 31. 1978
uilusuulauss Actual Implementation
. . . . -.  Planned Disbursements
-  --Actual D,sbursements                                                                                                                                                                    WrdBn     04



IRELAND - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT - LOAN 785 IRE
COMPLETION REPORT
ACTUAL STAGES OF COMPLETION
1971              1972                1973              1974                1975               1976               1977               1978                1979
1    2   3   4    1   2    3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4   1   2    3   4    1   2  |3  4    1    2   3   4    1    2   3   4   1   2   3    4
1973
2. .M.oit :emple, D,blm
3. Newpark. DOubii
4. Ashton, Cork
5. 8oher     c iy_ Cork                                                       10 Schools
71 Janesboro. Limerick                                                        Completed
10 Talluglst, Dsbla
11. BNanchardstown, Dublin
14. Mayfield. Cork
23. Cavan, Cavan
20. Atirlone, Wesimnouth
1974
6. Moyne. LonIllo,d
9. Carndonagh. Donegal
16. Falcarragh., Donegal                                                                          74chol
17. Ardee, Looth                                                                                  Coplt
8. Tarbert, Kerry
21. Tulannore. Oftaly
-  Rtegional Technical College, Cork-
1975                                                                                                                    1 School
--  Engineering School, Lanneickr                                                                                     Completed
1976                                                                                                                               I
12. Greenda1e, Dublin                                                                                                                   3 SchoolIs
13  Ballanteer, D.blin                                                                                                                  Completed
15 Malahide, Dublin
1977
I. Bailincollig, Cork
18. D.oshaoghlio Meath                                                                                                                                     4 Schools
22. R.ainsgrange. Weelord                                                                                                                                   C 
25  l3allyia-rvs. Mayo                  - - ---                                                                                                 
1978-
19  T.lloi., Carlom                                                                                                                                                            2 Schools
24. Cabincteely, Dublin                                                                                                                                                        Completed
Date of Eflectivenecs                                                                                                                    Actual Closing Dat,
November 11, 1971                                                                                Original Closing Date                   December 31 .1978
December 31, 1976
WYorld Bank - 20587



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
IRELAND - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 785-IRE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Institutions Visited
Project Comprehensive and Community Schools
Greendale Community School           Newpark Comprehensive School
Malahide Community School            Cabinteely Comprehensive School
Dunshaughlin Community School        Ashton Comprehensive School
Greenhills College                   Mayfield Comprehensive School
Ballincollig Community School        Janesboro Community School
Tullamore Vocational School          Coolmine Community School (Blanchardstown)
Ballinteer Community School          Moyne Community School
Ballyhaunis Community School
Project Technical Schools
The School of Engineering of the Limerick Technical College
Cork Regional Technical College
Non-Project Schools (Control Schools)
Greenhills College Senior School (Comprehensive School)
Ballygall Christian Bros. Secondary School for Boys
National Institute of Higher Education, Limerick
Tullamore Christian Brothers Secondary School for Boys
Technical Teachers Training College (Thormond Teacher College), Limerick
St. Kieran's Secondary School, Kelkenny
Kelkenny Vocational School
Blakestown Community School
Castlerock College
Ballynanty Community School
Sligo Regional Technical College



IRDLAJ(R    IRST ERRCITI  PROJEC  (LIA   785-IRS)
Place         PlacesA-.
Places to be Provided                   lAtReble         Cocccod0NE                                I1                                    I IC (IC 
Coder  lose      0.,Iseqcakc                                           ~Itff--oc     otff--caORfrec
I-et-i.c.or       Under           Iial        Pacs.ea.e.o.o...co mdl,                                                                               Dccitff-rRr                                             eslesoc        frj-
R.    No.           OALL--Ls,krese                         lccr               Aareeo LO2caee             - Poded   Pacilitire       Ceoeti..    A-ooec            A-1-corl    1970-79   A- -ecet1           ceco    In-er-eo           _ 9781  -Ilef- i               R    ai'            rt
I            -       Bsll11-o   bclic                         flimloeced to        RIO            -             -                             -             RI              -            -         -OIl             -4--42                                     -2
2           2        M-co  Tepl   0011                                             010           51)          512           300               -               10           OIl          749         -61             -II            40           413           +1  3)              3-
3           3        Nem-cl,  belic                                                Il1           S SI          RI           300               -              ( ID          RIO          Ol~    0140                                            IRI)           -1                8-31 
4            4       Aeh-oeC-ck                                                    510           517          510            --510                                         510          466         -44              -121                       31I3))        I                2913)          +2
7           5        coc-b-c, cock                                                 SRI           517          SID            -                -II                          510          III         -10R             -100          27           2803)         +1              28131           .2
O            I       R8e.5-  LaROf-d                                               510           RI)          8I)            -                                IO           ORI          SIR        -R               -3D9          27           3SO4)          +10             32141          di
-      OR ISs-, Ilecc                                   Ro     c    h     ln     o    T     I          51I                                              -            SRID        431         -437             -73            -           If)3)         +32              tom3) 
7           7         e-eboc.-  fli-ric                                            RIO           RI)          RI)            -                -RI                          910          415         -165            -165          40           4014            -              4714)           -2
s     -        lIlorRliI,ltscY                         Ellm--cdlIo           510            -            -                                             10          .-              -         -510               -           21            -            -27               --
9           9        CaeRcOoosRCh.  R-oensl                                        510           150          65)           250                '             760           900        1,007         1147            +D17           27           57'4R         13              404)            -3
00          10         -sIlenI, 1)010                                             1,68          1,10         1,800            -                -           I62R           1,28           III         -790            -110          I)            7014)         -2RSI)0
11   11  RlacclscdetoRmc, froIllo         1,020         1,10)        1.100            -                -            1,000         1,120          770         -250D           -200           50           4814) 50  484) -l24174))                       I
02- radale, 11b110                                                       010           RI)          Oil            -                -RI                          010          715         -95             -95           42            "41()         1a411
13           13       RalOaa,Rbil                                                   RI           ,0          1,001            -                -              RIO           RI           194         1-               -            40           5114)          +11             48111           +3
14          14        .,afia1d, Cok                                                  IO           010          RID            -L-                                      810   01          6661         -I     -144    410                         45,4)         +5              41149 )
IS            -       AchotOild-r                              flMiRa-d II          710            -                                                           10            -            -          -510               -           27            -            -27               --
1I            -       Ibs.Tl.lpp-...y                          fllrl-acd io         510             -                                                          10            -                       580                            27            -            -27                              -
10          1         Alls ., kc-,C                                                 510            IoI         07        *                        -           010I          dlo          610         110             -2)0                        42)4)         CI              311 5
10 -        ti.oBeRsn,Cs-1-                         fl'.I,ac-d Io        510            -            -             -                                10            -            -          -510               -          27             -            '27                       
19          19        III-lo, Carlo.                                                510           750          750            -l-5a                                         750          729         +219            -21            27           51)4)         +24             4514)           5
20     -       Lcch(coae  aIIay                         El miosted cc        510            -            -             -                                10            -            -          -510              -            27            -            -27               --
21                -I Rol -os   -RRal                                          511           510         60)0                            90             510           510          SIR         170              o7R           27           3113)         III              c.,3)          OR
22            -       RIco-  Ilfaly                            fllmlrsted I0        510            -            -             --                              510            -            -          -510              -            27            -            -27               -
23          23        C.-ao  Cave                                                   510           511          550            -                               510           510          513         13              +3            27            3613)         0932(31                         3
24           20         -llc.. leccol                                                10           510          I')            -                                10           S1D          279        '111               Iso         27          -2)3            +0              2444
-   I       sIli-cligR. Cok                         RroOghtIccoa-                     00             I)                                            -            810          425         +125            -385            -           26 3)         +26             22(3)           -1
-    21        CaNlolme1o   14bli                       IR+cghc  IRsI-                      10          512           30o               -                             10          SRI    ~    58              -222                       4 1)7)        143              3713)          .
-     S        RRlIIr    btli.00061I                                     l                 510          51)           3)0               -               -           01            710        +710             -02            -            7(11          -1-             444)           13
-    I6        b+ccsh          teglnogcrt                                c                  6           550            -               c                                                      -25 10 ca        -21           -41)4)                    -R4O             35(4           01
-    22        R-a-.Roa -ne,oe lo                       Roco" l  Icac-                     510          513            -                                -           SI           115         4415             -90            -           0)1           133              2)-)7
-    25        Rallyhs... i., Rayc                      E-OcIl  .10                      550          550            ---                                          530         5sn          +503             +33            -           311           +38              1514)          +2
-    10        -ciatIt         .,hal                    R_oght       c,cc-                 So           51                             --                            1           4150        150              -+-                        28(3)         029              28(3)          +8
SMI=AL                              15,960 ~~~~0, 10          16_7 RI           45 ______                    ,    o        1.408        U15 41          -IRA            -            905 60    1.400 R0)         OOI9RI          4S)lfl)         40
RaIOR  Techo-ca  co11sge, Cook                           2, 700l       2,0          2.216             -               -           2.700         2,8R         I 1653/a       104             -517         140          10'              W14                             1
RSatnerolnaRo(ncl. LIc,sclnk                  8RR'N         NoR          II             --                              0            590          482'1       -310              it
ColR    f C---oce    lhiIlo         IiitotRad to,        R0R0                                                                      goo--          -            -         -8000 
the .LavisIs
RRITOT.0                                             4.300         3.2-00                                      2.10  --        t                          2135       -2,165             -&55
A-i-clRor1 Ed00511c  Cterec            Jl  Ietei   n      L2                                                           -            1oo               -            -       -   s
RIa Reduc I_________
7010-2811                                                     ~           j~                             15           2  00        II2)         1,51          l  99           -270
.1  Rirlascad  RnIl-ciee                            ipe9covalsCccrly.-d                                                     h.    .1   -h.
fl E-n-qr  staf sdded.



IRELAND- - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 785-IRE)
PROJECT WDMPLETION REPORT
Cosparison of Originally Estisated Costs and Actusl Costs (in Llr 000'.)
CONSTRUCTION AND SITE DEVELOPKENT                         tFURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT                                            ID            T OT A L                                   /
_ppraI.al Eatimqto                                      Appraisal EstiteReAp Aprisal EAt.'_
Excl.          Inc.         Actual           7.         Excl.         Inc.         Actual          7.           Excl.          Inc.         Actual            7.          Incl.           X
Conting.       Conting.        Cost          Diff       Continx.      Contiag.        Cost         Diff.       Conting,        Conting.        Cost -         Diff.       Contina.        Diff.
1.  Ballincollig, Cork              345.80          398.07         802.61      +101.6         72.00         77.40        142.96      + 84.7         417.80          475.47         945.57      + 98.9          495.75      + 90.7
2.  Mount Teple, Dublin             218.27         256.01          38,6t       + 39.3         43.50         46.76         68.98      +47.5          261.77          302.77         425.58      +40.6           315.56      +34.9
3.  Nespark, Dublin                 218.27         256.01          385.21      + 50.5         43.50         46.76         87.03      + 8b.1         261.77          302 77         472 24      + 56.0          315.56      + 49.6
4.  Aahton, Cork                    218.27          256.01         349.77      +36.6          43.50         46.76         76.40      + 63.4          261.77         302.77         426.17      + 40.8          315.56      + 35.1
5.  Boherboy, Cork                  218.27         256.01          365.46      + 42,7         43.50         46.76         82.06      + 75.5         261.77          302.77         447.52      + 47.8          315.56      + 41.8
6.  Moyne, Longford                 345.96          398.25         615.69      + 54.6         68.50         73.64        125.65      + 7-.6          414.46         471.89         741.34      + 57.1          492.18      + 50.6
7.  Janeaboro, Limerick             345.96         398.25          477.14      + 19.8         68.50         73.64        106.95      +45.2          414.46          471 89         584.09      + 23.8          492.18      + 18.7
8.  Torbert, Kerry                  218.27         256.01          364.00      + 42.2         43.50         46.76         88.25      + 88.7         261.77          302.77         452.25      + 49.4          315.56      + 43.3
9.  Carndonagh, Donegal             250.95          288.59         411.42      + 42.6         60.00         64.50         93.95      + 14. 7        310.95          353.09         505.37      + 43.1          367.81      + 37.4
10.  Tallaght, Dublin                470.20          540.73         541.17      +  0.1         92.00         98.90        127.37      + 28.8         562.20          639.63         668.54      +  4.5          667.20      +  0.2
11.  Bllnchard.town, Dublin          437.60          508.24         535.28      +  5.3         92.00         98.90        121.54      + 22.9c        529.60          607.14         656.82      +  8.2          632.74      +  3.8
12.  Greendale, Dublin               345.96         398.25          559.26      + 40 4         68.50         73.64        148.50    +401.7           414.46          471.89          707.76    + 50.0           492.18      +43.8
13.  Ballinteer, Dublin              437.60         508.24         700.27       + 37,8         92.00         98.90        159 41      + 61.2         529.60          607.14         859 68      + 41.6          632.74      + 35.9
14.  Mayfield, Cork                  345.96         398.25          469.50      + 17.9         68.50         73.64        112.33      + 52.5         414.46          471.89          581.85      + 23.3         492.18      +13.2
15.  Malahide. Dublin                218.27          256.01         596.84      +133,1         43.50         46.76        139.24      +197.8         261.77          302.77          736.08     +143.1          315.56      +133.3
16.  Falcarragh, Donegal             218.27          256.01         502.49      + 96.3         43.50         46.76        113.57      4142.9         261.77          302.77         616.06      +103.5          315.56      + 95.2
17.  Ardee, Louth                    345.96          398.25         524.82      + 31.8         68.50         73.64        119.31      + 62.0         414.46          471.89          644.13     + 36.5          492.18      + 30.9
18.  Dun-haughlin. Meath             218.27         256.01          629.20      +145.8         43.50         46.76        131.22      4180.6         261.77          302.77         760.42      +151.2          315.56      +141.0
19.  Tuo., Carlow                    421.28         484.47          709.41      + 46.4         70.00         75.25        131.76      + 75.1         491.28          559.72         841.17      + 50.3          584.42      + 43.9
20.  Athlone, West-south             218.27         256.01          504.41      + 97.0         43.50         46.76        106.69      4128.2         261.77          302.77         610.95      +101.8          315.56      + 93.6
21.  Tull-more, Offaly               239.50         275.43          489.63      + 77.8         43.50         46.76        104.98      4124.5         283.00          322.19         594.61      + 84.6          336.23      + 76.8
22.  Ramogrange, Wexford             218.27         256.01          545.27      +113.0         43.50         46.76        143.40      +206.7         261.77          302.77         688.67      +127.5          315.56      +118.2
23.  Cavan, Cavan                    218.27         256.01          520.37      +103.3         43.50         46.76         89.83      + 92.1         261.77          302.77         610.20      +101.5          315.56      + 93.4
24.  Cabinteely, Dublin              218.27         256.01          624.92      +144.1         43.50         46.76        134.68      +188.0         261.77          302.77         759 60      +150.9          315.56      +140.7
25.  Ballyhaunis, Mayo               244.82         294.46          540.08      + 83-4         51.50         55.15        151.38      +174.5         296.32          349.61         691.46      + 97.8          363.97      + 90.0
Subtotal                7.196.79        8,361.60      13.120.67      + 56.9      I.37.50       1,545.08      2.907.44      + 88.2         664.29        9.906.68      16.028.11       + 61.8      10.328.48      + 55.2
Cork Regional Technical Collage  1,796.26         2,036.37        2,339.45      + 15.9        472.15        507.56        855.70      + 68.6        2,268.41       2,543.93       3,215.15      + 26.4        2,681.17      + 19.9
Engineoring School, 7.iirick         505.89         581.77          777.34     + 33.6         134.63        144.74        156.21      +  7.9         640.53          726.51         933.55      + 28.5          756.17      + 23.5
Subtotal                2,302.15        2,618.14       3,136.79      + 19.8        606.78        652.30      1.011.91      + 55.1        2,908.94       3,270.44       4,148.70       + 26.8       3.437.34      +20.7
TOTAL                   9.498.94       101979.74          257,46     + 48.0      2.044.28      2 197.38      3,919,35      + 78.4       1.543,23       13,177.12      20,176.81       + 53.1                     +46.6
a/ Revised Decenber 1974, after elimination of agricultural centers and technical assistance.
b/ As agreed between Government ond IBRD sed taking into account revisions in location end Rise of schools and institutions.
F Project Unit data.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IRELAND - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 785-IRE)
Disbursements
Appraisal Estimates                Actual               Actual as
Accumulated                 Accumulated   % of Appraisal    Significant Dates and Events
kY     Semester               Amounts    Amounts        Amounts       Amounts          Estimate          in Project Implementation
------------------us$ millions-----------------
71     2 (1/71-6/71)             -           -
72     1 (7/71-12/71)           0.21        0.21           -             -                              ' 3/9/79 Signing of Loan
2 (1/72-6/72)           0.74        0.95          0.12          0.12               13                 . Agreement
11/24/71 Effective date
73     1 (7/72-12/72)           1.08        2.03          0.48          0.60              30
2 (1/73-6/73)           2.52        4.55          1.30          1.90               42
LA
74     1 (7/73-12/73)           1.85        6.40          1.60          3.50              55
2 (1/74-6/74)           1.44        7.84          2.00          5.50               70
75     1 (7/74-12/74)           1.21        9.05          1.30          6.80              75
2 (1/75-6/75)           1.27       10.32          0.40          7.20               70
76     1 (7/75-12/75)           1.37       11.69          1.60          8.80              75
2 (1/76-6/76)           1.07       12.76          1.50         10.30               81
77     1 (7/76-12/76)           0.24       13.00          0.90         11.20              86
2 (1/77-6/77)                                     0.40         11.60               89          3/3/77 Closing date extended
to 6/30/78
78     1 (7/77-12/77)                                     0.60         12.20              94
2 (1/78-6/78)                                     0.10         12.30               95          6/6/78 Closing date extended
to 12/31/78
79     1 (7/78-12/78)*                                    0.70         13.00             100
*Last payment was made on 1/9/79.



IRELAND - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 785-IRE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Growth and Distribution of Enrollments - Projected and Actual
Pro1ect Canpreh.n.ive/ComunitY Schools
Revised                                                                                                                      Actual EnrollaoDt Distribution
Target             1974/75            1975/76         1976/77          1977/78         1978/79         Junior Cycle                    Senior Cycle                       Both Cycles
N.   Project School              _Hnollment    Actual   Planned  Aetual  Planned Actufl Planned Actual Planned Actual Planned Boys             Girls     Total       Boys      Girls      Total     Boys      Cirle      Total
I      Ballincollig  -            810              -       -        -       -        105    100     258    250      425   430         268       140        408        -          17         17       268         157       425
2      Mount Temple               810            592      650      658     700      700    750      703    810      731   810         246       249        495        109       127         236      355         376       731
3      Newpark                    810            727      700      800     750       800    810     808    810      812   810         292        266       558        125       129         254      417         395       812
4      Ashton                     510             374     370      429     420       454    455     472    470      466   510         120        132       252         84       130         214      204         262       466
5      Boherboy                   510            344      439      397     500       416    532     432    539      410   510         117        146       263         53        94         147      170         240       410
6      Moyne -                    810            494      647      558     734       562    765     519    784      501   810         203        126       329         61       111         172      264         237       501
7      Janeaborovgh               810            282      280     432      460       542    550     593    640      647   810         361       445        506         69        72         141      430         217       647
8      Tarbert                   510             324      400      382     480      420    510      459    510      443   510         156        138       294         70        79         149      226         217       443
9      Crordonagh                 900            880      800      858     850      964    900      978    900    1007   900          352        360       712        105       190         295      457         550      1007
10      Tallaght -                1020            559      690      733     750       761    850     865    900      830  1020         419        187       606        114       110         224      533         297       830
11      Blanchardstoun            1020            550      750      662     940       730   1020      723   1020     770  1020         303        203       506        143       121         264      446         324       770
12      Greendale                 810              -       -        191     180      451    360      610    540      711   720         358        227       585         88        38         126      446         265       711
13     Balli.teer                  810            226      210      327     390      509    570      696    750      793   810         476        240       716         49        28          77      525         268       793
14      Mayfield                   810            300      665      420     810       577    810     626    810      650   810         382        128       510        10 5       35         140      487         163       650
15      Malahide                   810             -       -        -       -        506    600      615    720      713   720         239        314       553          -       160         160      239         474       713
16      Falcorragh                550             459      5OO      524     510      593    550      624    550      600   550         228        199       427         54       119         173      282         318       600
17      Ardee d/                  810             666      600      667     665      677    710      620    770      622   810         258        158       416        119        87         206      377         245       622
18      Dunshaughlin              510             -        -        -       -         -      -       362    350      450   510         220       119        339         55        56         111      275         175       450
19      Tullow                    750                               -       -         -      -       -       -       729   750         221       200        421         88       220        308       309         420       729
20       Athlone                  510              -       -       433      475      446    480      426    480      379   510         194         75       269         43        67         110      237         142       379
21      Tullainore                510              -       -        643     600      622    600      591    600      588   600         271        139       410         75       103         178      346         242       588
22      Ras-grange                510              -       -        -       -         -      -       -       -       402   400         136       149        285         38        79         117      174         228       402
23      Cavan                     510              _       _        556     510      567    510      553    510      513   510         188        162       350         59       104         163      247         266       513
24      Cabinteely                810             _        _        362     360      415    450      496    540      588   720         136        297       433          -       155         155      136         452       588
25      ellybenis                  550                              -       -         -      -        -      -       568   550         201        166       367         80       121         201       281        287       568
TOTAL                  17680                                                                                                                     110          1786   2 552        4         81              7   15_348 
IL/ Still to complete a five-year cycle.
bt The discrepancy between planned and actual is due to the refusal of one of the "feeder" eshools to enter into the consolidation plan.
Sf New iousing developments in the area were slowed down in the receaion years.
d/ Some of the pupils of the "feeder" schools went to other schools.



-53-                                       ANNEX 6
IRELAND - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (LQAN 7R5-IRE)
PROJECT COMPLETI1N REPORT
Communitv School Competition - First Award
oL~~~~~~ 
r~~~
f     .~~~~Z  -IT^, IsT)
t JR r   3 t <1  | < t    t  0  t          t   s S~~~~r7-1 
j1I'ARHIECS: DLNY   MVEGHAN.PK
oL~ ~~I                                  -- .X W                ,tI-,C .
J. ~   ~~~ ~   ,~ -;   -    Z|       e|1{            ,  
isPil _r  i-@l    [, to1;;   _3t
r f  *- \ ~  I                       I                                 -        6bY  S bl -'9    ,,  i      Rt   s
i                                            r~~~~~~~~~~~~
4~~~~ i
aw -                               ~~~~~~~~ARCHItECTS:7t)ELANY, MCVEIGH AND PIKE
.~~~~~~~~~



- 54-                       ANNEX 7
IRELAND - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 785-TME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Community School Competition - Second Award
''it~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
o.~~~~~~~~~~~~ A
ARCHITECTS: A.I& P. WEJCHERT
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rf5
\X1~~~~~~~~~~~RHTCS A\w. & . WEJCHER,



- 55 -                                                                ANN7EX 8
IRELAND - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 785-IRE)
PROJECT COMPLETION BEPORT
Cork Regional Technical College
Enrollments                  Staff Al97t7 one                            G r a d u a t e s
Course                    17-77  1977-78  1978-7            197-7    19778   1978-~79yeo   wr                              1976-77  1977-78
Electronics Eng.  Year 1              19         20        35
Year 2            15        18         13                                           Electronics Certificate         14        18
Year 3             8        11         10                                                        Diploma             8        11
Sub-total                42        49        58
Electrical Eng.   Tsar 1              16         17        18                                           Electrical Certificate          13        10
Yeer 2            13        12         12
Sub-total                29        29         30
Radio-TV            Year 1            17         16        15
Year 2             8          8         9
Sub-total                25        24        24
Marine Radio        Year 1             15        18        19
Year 2            10        13         11
Sub-total                25        31        30
Marine Radar                          -          -          6
Army/Navy Radio                        12        11        -
Marine Eng.         Year 1            16         25        23                                           Marine Eng. Certificate         17        -
Year 2            19        16         22                                                        Diploma            20        10
Year 3            22        17         14
Sub-total                57        58        59
Oil/Gas Exploration                   16
Construction        Year 1            32         34        32                                           Construction Certificate        21        21
Year 2            22        23         25                                          Construction Eng. Diploma    14            10
Year 3            14        12          8
Sub-total                68        69        65
Civil Eng.          Year 1            31         40        38                                           Civil Eng. Certificate          23        17
Year 2            29        23         28                                                       Diploma             13        12
Year 3            14        13          6
Year 4             6        -          -
Sub-total                80        76        72
Mechanical Eng.   Year 1               31        26        26                                           Mechanical Etg. Certif.         15        14
Year 2            17        18         22
Year 3             8        -           6                                          Mechanical Eng. Diploma           8        -
Sub-total                5T6       44        54
Junior Eag. Tech. Year 1              20         19        12
Year 2            20        11         10
Sub-total                40        30        22
Institute of Motor Diploma            -         -          14
Science Technician Year 1             59         59        57                                           Certificate in Science          56        54
Year 2           51        56        47                                           Diploma in Science              30         20
Year 3           26        19        17
Sub-total              136        1334      321                                           Medical Lab. Certificate         1         34
Medical Lab. Tech.                    13         17        17                                           Food Science Diploma            12         9
Food Science                          -          10        -                                            Chemical Tech. Diploma          18        11
Instrument Tech.   Year 1             23        22         17                                           Instrument Physical Cert.   12            11
Year 2           19        16        18
Sob-total                42        38        35
Busin*ss Studies   Year 1             60         61        67                                           Business Studies Certif.    37            28
Year 2           48        35        31
Year 3           10        10          7
Sub-total              118        106       105
Computer Science                      -         -          15
Accountancy                           28         21        29                                           Accountancy Certificate         10         8
Secretarial          Year 1           21         23        24
Year 2           -         11        11
Sub-total                21        34        35
Office Skills Course                  20        -          -
Off-the-Job Apprentice                13         13        13
Cookery                               34         39        27
Tourism                               -         -          17
TOTAL                                897       833        848           167        174       182         Certificates                   208        207
Diplomas                        76         93
a/ Allocations not necessarily all appointed. Good deal of part-time appointment.



- 56 -
IRELAND - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 785-IRE)                                 ANNEX 9
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
The rngineerin, School of the Limerick Technical College
ENROLLMENTS                                     GRADUATES
1976-77    1977-78    1978-79                 Type of Award                1976-77    1977-78
Full-time Day Programs
Construction Studies        Yr 1        23           21          21      Construction Certificate                   25         21
Yr 2        16          14          12      Construction Diploma                         7          8
Yr 3         8          11           6
SUBTOTAL                           47          46          39
Works Supervisors           Yr 1         12          22          21
Yr 2        13          11          16
SUBTOTAL                           22          32          37
Civil Engineering           Yr 1        15          20           21
Yr 2        15          11          17
SUBTOTAL                           30          31          38
Quantity Surveyors                                   -           10      Certificate in Engineering (Civil)         14          7
Electronics                             --          --3
Electronics & Telecoms    Yr 1          26          36           20
Yr 2        21          24          19
Yr 3        11          13          12
SUBTOTAL                           58          73          51
Science Lab Tech.           Yr I        --          --          22
Building Tech.              Yr 1        13                       --
Yr 2        14           8          11
SUBTOTAL                           26          28          11
Bricklaying Apprentices                 15          15          16
Plastering Apprentices                  13          rs      -
TOTAL                             215         260         286
Day Release
Mechanical Apprentices                  92         162          67
Carpentry & Joinery                     41          23          44
Motor Apprentices                      140         133         140
Bricklaying                             15          15          16
Plastering                              16          _-         -_
TOTAL                             304         333         267                                                 46         36
Block Release
Apprentices                            584         561         391
Technicians (Post Office)              108          41          50
Evening Classes                        746         750         488
SOURCE: Ministry of Education



- 57 -                               ANX1
IRELAND - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 785-IRE)              ANNEX 10
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1977 Leavers in Destination Categories
Community School Group Compared to the National Figures
National Survey    Community Schools Group/a
Destination                 No.        %           No.           Z
In Employment or in
Training                         25,975      61.3         1,082        54.6
Apprentices, AnCo, etc.         308       7.3           156         7.9
Other Apprentices             1,630       3.8            51         2.6
Student Nurses                1,604       3.8            36         1.8
Industrial Employment         4,387      10.4           218        11.0
Office Employment             5,966      14.1           187         9.4
Other Services (shop,
bar, catering, etc.)          5,187      12.2           247        12.5
Working in Family Firm/
Farm                          1,914       4.5            90         4.5
Other Employment              2,206       5.2            97         4.9
Available for Employment          3,101       7.3           233        11.8
Not Available for Employ-
ment (At Home, Ill, Etc.)            600      1.4             35        1.8
Emigrated                           804       1.9            54         2.7
Destination Unknown               2,954       7.0           139         7.0
Full-time Further/Higher
Education                         8,926      21.1           438        22.1
University, N.I.H.E.          3,854       9.1           171         8.6
College of Education            887       2.1            31         1.6
R.T.C./College of
Technology                    2,508       5.9           156         7.9
Other Further Education       1,677       4.0            80         4.0
TOTALS                43         10Q 0         1,981       100 0
/a 21 comprehensive/community schools of which 12 are project schools.
SOURCE: Ministry of Education



- 58 -
IRELAND - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 785-IRE)              ANNEX 11
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project School teavem 1977 a/
A. Analysis of Leavers G;oing to Third Level Education:
Project           National
Schools             Norm
University or N.I.H.E.                     7.16%              9.1%
Colleges of Education         :           1.27%               2.1%
R.T.C. or Technical Colleges:              7.51%              5.9%
Other Third Level Courses   :             4.53%               4.0%
20.47%             21.1%
B.  Destination of All Student Leavers 1977:
Project           National
Schools             Norm
Apprenticeships                      :           11.13%             11.1%
Student Nurses                       :            2.7%               3.8%
Industrial Employment          '                  9.85%             10.4%
Other Employment                     :           34.1%              36.0%
Unemployed/At Home                   :           11.63%              8.7%
Unknown/Emigrated                    :           10.07%              8.9%
Third Level Courses                  :           20.5%              21.1%
C. Numbers ''ho Left at Each Educational Stage during 1976/1977:
Community/Comprehensive Schools
National Survey   (21 schools of which 12 Project)
N.        %                No.         %
Not completed Junior Cycle    3,731        8.8                226      11.4
Completed Junior Cycle          9,245    21.8                 430      21.7
Short Senior Cycle              2,514     5.9                 167       8.4
Leaving Certificate            21,890    51.7               1,043      52.7
Leaving Certificate Plus*       4,980    11.8                 115        5.8
Totals                   42,360                       1,981
-Returned to School:             3,273                         314
*The designation "Leaving Certificate Plus" is used for girls who had taken a
secretarial course after their Leaving Certificate and for boys and girls who
had taken a Pre-Employment Course.
/i Relates to 1,410 school leavers in 12 project schools.



. 59 -                                 ANNEX 12
IRELAND - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT La
Comparison of Originally Estimated and Actually Provided Gross Construction Areas
Appraisal                    Actual gross
Project Item                  estimate of gross             construction areas   /b   %
(School/Institution)            construction areas           for completed facilities -  Dif.
(in m2)                        (in m2)
Comprehensive and Community Schools:
1. Ballincollig, Cork                     4,970                          5,650                +13.7
2. Mount Temple, Dublin                   3,122                          4,135                +32.4
3. Newpark, Dublin                        3,122                          4,135                +32.4
4. Ashton, Cork                           3,122                          4,135                +32.4
5. Boherboy, Cork                         3,122                          4,135                +32.4
6. Moyne, Longford                        4,970                          5,945                +19.6
7. Janesboro, Limerick                    4,970                          5,945                +19.6
8. Tarbert, Kerry                         3,122                          3,356                + 7.5
9. Carndonagh, Donegal                    3,122                          4,645                +48.8
10. Tallaght, Dublin                       6,250                          7,400                +18.4
11. Blanchardstown, Dublin                 6,250                          7,400                +18.4
12. Greendale, Dublin                      4,970                          5,945                +19.6
13. Ballinteer, Dublin                     6,250                          7,285                +16.6
14. Mayfield, Cork                         4,970                          5,945                +19.6
15. Malahide, Dublin                       3,122                          3,910                +25.2
16. Falcarragh, Donegal                    3,122                          4,500                +44.1
17. Ardee, Longford                        4,970                          5,945                +19.6
18. Dunshaughlin, Meath                    3,122                          3,200                + 2.5
19. Tullow, Carlow                         4,600                          5,110                +11.1
20. Athlone, West Meath                    3,122                          4,500                +44.1
21. Tullamore, Offaly                      3,122                          4,645                +48.8
22. Ramsgrange, Wexford                    3,122                          3,050                - 2.3
23. Cavan, Cavan                           3,122                          4,500                +44.1
24. Cabinteely, Dublin                     3,122                          4,135                +32.4
25. Ballyhaunis, Mayo                      3,122                          3,350                + 7.3
SUBTOTAL                      100,000                        122,901                +22.9
Technical Institutions:
Regional Technical College, Cork          24,378                         24,375                 NIL
Engineering School, Limerick               6,952                          6,333                - 8.9
SUBTOTAL                       31,330                          30,678               - 0.2
TOTAL                         131,330                        153,609                +17.0
/a As agreed between the Government and IBRD and taking into account revisions in location
and size of schools and institutions.
/b Project Unit Data.



Tallasht CommunitL chool
TELEPHONE: 508129
PRINCIPAL: MR. P. HEERAN
V. PRINCIPAL: MR. f. MURRAY
HEAD OF ADULT EDUCATION: SR. M. LAURENTINA
SPORTS MANAGER: MR. P. CLEARY
.~ ~~ P
B'1
o    'CO)
'PROGRAMME OF                                                  1tI H:i
g.t    0  t  1
0     c  0
ADULT EDUCATION
-,4
SEPTEMBER 1976- MAY 1977
oQ
Enrolment for all Courses will be held in the schol on four nights:-
MONDAY 13th SEPTEMBER - THURSDAY 16t SEPTEMBER 1976
from 7.00 p.m. - 9.30 p.m
CLASSES WILL BEGIN ON MONDAY 27th SEPTEMBER 1976
A"vs e oaid on enrolrwnt



The programme of courses and activities outlined in this booklet is ollered to  SECTION 1
the conmmunity as part of a contilnuing effort to develop a comprehensive                      HOBBY AND CRAFT COURSES
system of Adult Education for thc Tallight area.
Course                              Length
We need hardly stress the importance of continued education in this age of     No.               Title          in weeks  Day   Time p.m.        Fee
rapid change in our places of work, our,society and in our leisure activities.  101   Drama                        20    Tues  7.30- 9.30        8
So the aims of this programme are:-                                          102      Effective Public Speaking    10    Mon   7.30- 9.30        5
(a)  to give to working adults the opportunity to fill gaps in their fornmal
schooling and to obtain further qualifications which will be of use to  103      Woodwork - Basic             20    Mon   7.00-10.00        8
them in their jobs and in their everyday lives.                         104      Woodwork - Advanced          10    Tues  7.00-10.00        8
(b) to contribute towards the Community Development of the area by
arousing in the people an interest in social and environmental problems.  105    Metalwork                    20    Tues  7.00-10.00        8
(c)  to give people the opportunity to develop hobbies and skills which will  106(a)   Motor Maintenance           10    Mon   7.30- 9.30       6
allow them to enjoy their leisure time more fully, and to enjoy a richer
participation in the life of the community.                            106(b)   Motor Maintenance             10    Thurs 7.30- 9.30        6
107      Home-Improvements             S    Thurs 7.30- 9.30        6
COURSES OFFERED:-                                                           108      Gardening (After Christmas          Mon/
SECTION 1   HOBBY AND CRAFT COURSES                                                                    only)        4    Thurs 7.30- 9.30       no
charge
SECTION 2   ELEMENTARY COURSES OF STUDY
SECTION 3   LEAVING CERTIFICATE EXAMINATION COURSES                         109(a)   Art, Drawing and Painting-
Basic      20    Thurs 7.30- 9.30        8
SECTION 4   BUSINESS STUDIES
SECTION 5   SOCIAL STUDIES                                                  109(b)   Art, Drawing and Painting -
Advanced  20    Mon   7.00- 9.30         E8
SECTION 6   IRISH STUDIES
SECTION 7   LANGUAGES                                                       110      Pottery                       10    Tues  7.00- 9.30       5
SECTION8   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT                                            111      Photography - Beginners       10    Thurs 7.30- 9.30       5
SECTION 9   LITERACY SCHEME FOR ADULTS
112      Intermediate Cookery         10    Mon   7.30- 9.30       5
113      Intermediate Cookery         10    Tues  7.30- 9.30       5
114     Advanced Cookery              10    Thurs 7.30- 9.30       10
115      Hostess                       8    Mon   7.30-10.00       5
NOT E
All courses are offered subject to demand. Fees must be paid on enrolment.  116      Arts and Crafts               10    Thurs 7.30- 9.30       5
If classes are not formed fees will be refunded by post. No refunds for classes  117  Basic Dressmaking           20    Mon   7.30-10.00        8         IV
provided for enrolces. All classes will be filled on a first come - first served
basis. Whenever possible alternative classes will be formed to cater for excess  118  Advanced Dressmaking        10    Thurs 7.30-10.00        5        OQ
demand.
All courses of 10 weeks or less will be repeated after Christmas.           119      Interior Design              10    Thurs 7.30- 9.30        5         o
Except where specified, all classes begin in the week            120      Music Appreciation           10    Tues  8.30-10.00       f C  
. . _~~~~r-                 m ncn



Courses of 20 weeks will be offered in the following:-                                           BUSINESS STUDIES
Course                                                                    Course                            No. of
No.             Title             Day          Time                       No.            Title              Weeks   Day   Time p.m.        Fee
201     Elementary English        Thurs   8.30-10.00p.m.
202     Eelmentary Mathematics    Mon    7.00- 8.30p.m.                   401     Supervisory Management
203     Elementary Book-keeping    Thurs   7.00- 8.30p.m.                         (Local factories & industries
204     Elementary Economics      ihurs   8.30-1O.OOp.m.                          will be contacted)         15      Thurs 7.30- 9.30      15
205     Elementary History        Mon    8.30-1 0.OOp.m.                  (Sept-Dec)                                 Mon/
206     Elementary Geography      Thurs   7.00- 8.30p.m.                  402     Typewriting for beginners   10     Thurs 7.00- 8.30      7
FEE: 5 per subject
These courses will prepare students who wish to undertake Leaving Certificate  4 (Jan-March)
Courses in 1977-78, and, at the same time, will be of interest to those who  403  Intermediate Typewriting    10     Mon  7.30- 9.30       5
have no particular desire to take examinations.                           404     Advanced Typewriting       10      Tues  7.30- 9.30      5
SECTION 3       LEAVING CERTIFICATE COURSES                               (Sept-Dec)                                 Mon/
Courses of approximately 30 weeks will be offered in the following subjects  405  Shorthand for beginners    10      Thurs 8.30-10.00      7
in preparation for the Leaving Certificate 1977.                          (Jan-March)
Course                            Course                                  40G     Intermediate Shorthand     10      Thurs 7.30- 9.30      5
No.                               No.                                     407     Advanced Shorthand         10      Thurs 7.30- 9.30      5
301     Irish                     307      French
302(a)   English (Pass)           308      Physics                                 _
302(b)  English (Hons)            309      Chemistry                                                                                                    a
303     Maths (Pass)              310      Biology                                                                                                      1
304     Maths (Hons)              311      Economics
305     History                   312      Business Organisation
306     Geography                 313      Accountancy                   SECTION 5
The Counselling Department of the school will be available to students on                        SOCIAL STUDIES
registration nights. It is advisable that students consult them about their  601  Pre-School Education for Parents   Tues  1.00- 9.30      5
subjects so as to obtain the maximum benefit from their courses.
502     Parents and the Teaching of Religion   Thunv U.00- 9.30  5
FEE: 5 per subject                                                                                             per couple
14 for 3 subjects                                                                                        p
17 for 4 subjects                             503      Moulders of Modern Thought         Mon  8.30-10.00      5
20 for 5 subjects                                      (This will be a course of lectures on
A '                                t          modern philosophers and philosophies,
TIME-TABLE NIGHT CLASSES - LEAVING CERTIFICATE                               by Fr. Ephrem McCarthy, O.P. He
Monday  Tuesday         Thtirsday  ~~~dwill show how these philosophers
Monday               Tuesday           Thursday          dffect present-day thinking, even down
7.00         Irish                Maths             English                       to literature and day-to-day attitudes                            to
to           Physics              French            French                        and view-point)                                                   Q
8.30p.m.     Economics            Chemistry/Biology                                                                                                  M
8.30         English              Chemistry/Biology Maths                                                                                            0 A
to           Physics                                Irish  
10.00p.m.                            __- Geoarleohy               *
Bus. Organisation    History          Accountancy



SECTION 6                                                                    .-"- ,i  j
IRISH STUDIES                                                       LITERACY SCHNl.E FOR AOULTS
Course                              No. of                                   It is a well recognised fact that there are many people ini our society who do
No.             Title               Weeks   Day       Time       Fee         not have a sufficient grasp of basic reading and writing to carry on their normal
601             T;tle               Weeks   Dav       Time       Fee      ; Work and recreation. A lot can be done to help such people. The school invites
601     Intensive Course in Spoken           Monl                            anyone who has such a problem or who knows anyone with the problem, to
Irish (Beginners)          10       Thurs  7.30-9.30    7          get in touch with us.
602      Intensive Course in Spol<en         Tues/
Irish                      10       Thurs  7.30-9.30   7           We witU assign volunteer tutors to those who seek help. This tuition will be on
603      Local History and Irish Studies                                     an individual and strictly confidential basis and will take place usually in the
(a practical examination oit  tutors own home. In addition, if it is found desirable, we may organise some
local cultural happenings and                                    f formal classes for anyone who wishes to avail of them. Contact may be made
traditions in the Tallaght area) 8  Tues   7.30-9.30    3       1 by ringing the school at 508129 or Sr. Carmela 505331.
1 Any person who is willing to act as a tutor should contact us in the same way.
I Arrangements are being made to provide training courses for tutors during
SECTION 7              LANGUAGE COURSES                                      the coming year.
701     Intensive Course in Spoken           Mon/
French 1                   10       Thurs  7.30-9.30    7
702     Intensive Course in Spoken           Tues/
French 11                  10       Thurs  7.30-9.30    7
704      Intensive Course in Spoken          Monl                            Applications for the use of Rooms must be made in writing to any one of the
German                     10       Thurs  7.30-9.30    7           following:-
Mr. P. Heeran, Principal, Tallaght Community School.                           '
SECTION 8                                                                        Mr. F. Murray, Vice Principal, Tallaght Community School.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT                                        Sr. M. Laurentina, Head of Adult Education, Tallagh l C: mmunity School.
No option can be claimed on the use of a room or of any lac4ities unless
801      Trail1ing Course for Voluntaryt. given by one of the above named in writing.
Workers. Detailed information
can be obtained from Tallaght
Welfare Society. Phone 513731
10      Tues   7.30-9.30    1.50
802      You, Religion and your Child
NEW APPROACHES - a
study of the new                                                   It is our hope that everyone who wishes to avail of Adult Education facilities
Catechetical Programme       8      Mon   7.30-9.30    4          will find in the programme something to suit his/her needs. Any individual or
per couple   group in the area should feel free to contact us. If there is any other activity
803      Family-School-Community Relation                                   we can provide or any way we can be of service to the Community, we wvill be
Relationships. What are                                           happy to co-operate.
they? are they needed?                                                                                                                              M
how to develop them? etc.    8      Thurs  7.30-9.30    3                          ___M
per couple                                                                                    o
ox



