CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1208 T-PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Second WAPDA Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Dated February 19, 1976
B,


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 19, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF PAKISTAN
(hereinafter called WAPDA).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars
($50,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that WAPDA agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and WAPDA, the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to WAPDA on
the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS WAPDA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿*                             -3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. WAPDA shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for this purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist WAPDA in the preparation
of plans and specifications, the preparation of bidding documents,
the evaluation of bids, the award of contracts and the supervision
of the construction of the Project, WAPDA shall employ engineering
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. In order to assist WAPDA in the improvement
of its accounting and management systems and procedures, WAPDA
shall continue to employ accounting and management consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the goods, works and services (other than consultants' services)
for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.


﻿Section 2.05. (a) WAPDA undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
WAPDA to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, WAPDA shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.06. (a) WAPDA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and construction and procurement schedules for 9
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) WAPDA: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use
thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall


﻿-5-
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan so relent to it and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) WAPDA shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of WAPDA related to the Loan and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 2.07. WAPDA shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land, and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction
(and operation) of the facilities included in the Project.
Section 2.08. WAPDA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, WAPDA shall not take or coacur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.09. (a) WAPDA shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relat-
ing to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) WAPDA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan,
or the performance by WAPDA of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of WAPDA
Section 3.01. WAPDA shall, in respect of its power wing, take
out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision,
including self-insurance, satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate public utility practices.
Section 3.02. WAPDA shall, in respect of its power wing;
(i) at all times manage its affairs, plan the development of its
properties and facilities and maintain its financial position,
all in accordance with appropriate public utility principles and
practices and under the supervision of experienced and competent
personnel; and (ii) cause its properties and facilities, power
generating plants and equipment to be maintained and all necessary
renewals and repairs thereto to be made all in accordance with
appropriate public utility practices.
Section 3.03. Except in the ordinary course of its business,
WAPDA shall not, without the prior consent of the Bank, sell,
lease, transfer, distribute or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
operation of its power wing.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. WAPDA shall maintain records, separate from the
records of its water wing, that are adequate to reflec., in accord-
ance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices,
the operations and financial condition of its power wing.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
WAPDA shall: (i) have the accounts and financial statements of
its power wing (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial state-
ments for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shIl have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of WAPDA and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(b) As from the date of this Agreement, the words "four
months" in Section 4.04(ii) of the Prior Project Agreement shall
be deemed to be deleted and replaced by the words "six months".


﻿-8-
Section 4.03. (a) WAPDA represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any
debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank or stated
in writing.
(b) WAPDA undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of WAPDA as secur-
ity for any debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien express
provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the Bank;
provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time
of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the
purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt matur-
ing not more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
Section 4.04. (a) WAPDA shall (i) take all such action as
shall be necessary on its part to increase its electricity tariff
by at least 20% by not later than March 31, 1977; and (ii) except
as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, take all steps
(including, but without limitation, adjustments of its electricity
tariff structure or the overall levels of such tariff) as shall
be required to provide WAPDA, by not later than June 30, 1980,
and at the end of each succeeding fiscal yeE-, with funds from
internal sources which are sufficient to finance not less than
30% of WAPDA's average capital expenditures for electricity oper-
ations during the preceding three fiscal years.


﻿-9-
(b)  For the purposes of this Section:
(i)       The term "funds from internal sources" shall mean
the difference between:
(1)  the sum of gross revenues from all sources
related to electricity operations, consumer
deposits, cash contributions from consumers
in aid of construction, and net non-operating
income; and
(2)  the sum of all expenses of operation, mainte-
nance and administration (excluding deprecia-
tion and other non-cash operating charges),
interest and other charges on debt (including
interest and other charges on debt charged to
construction irrespective of whether they
constitute cash or non-cash expenses), repay-
ment of loans (including sinking fund payments,
if any), all taxes or payments in lieu of taxes,
all cash dividends and other cash distribution
of surplus, and any other cash outflows other
than capital investments related to electricity
operations.
(ii)      The term "capital expenditures for electricity
operations" shall include, all investments related
to WAPDA's electric power activities including those
undertaken by WAPDA's water wing. Interest and
other charges on debt charged to construction
shall be excluded.


﻿- 10 -
(c) For the purposes of the foregoing and as part of such
information as may be requested under Section 4.02 (a) (iii) of
this Agreement, WAPDA shall within the first six months of each
fiscal year prepare and furnish to the Bank an annual fund flow
analysis covering the most recent three fiscal years.
(d)  As from the date of this Agreement, Section 4.02 of the
Prior Project Agreement shall be deemed to be deleted and replaced
by sub-sections 4.04(a), (b) and (c) of this Agreement.
Section 4.05. The Bank and WAPDA shall, by not later than
May 31 in the years 1976, 1977, 1978 and 1979 review and agree
upon WAPDA's power financing plans for the following fiscal year
before each such plan is submitted to the Borrower for approval,
in order to ensure that they take into account the objective for
cash generation set forth in Section 4.04 of this Agreement.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank and WAPDA may otherwise
agree, WAPDA shall not make any transfer of funds between its
power wing and its water wing.
Section 4.07. WAPDA undertakes that, except as the Bank may
otherwise agree, it will take whatever action is necessary to
ensure that it continues to maintain its outstanding receivables
from the sale of electricity at the end of each month, at not
more than the amount billed during the previous three months.
Section 4.08. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, WAPDA
shall continue to include in its electricity supply contracts,
and enforce, a provision that its charges will automatically be
adjusted to take account of changes in WAPDA's fuel costs.


﻿ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of WAPDA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
(i)       the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)      a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Sec-
tion, the Bank shall promptly notify WAPDA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement or any failure by the Bank
to exercise its rights under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.
The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-13 -
For WAPDA:
Water and Power Development Authority
WAPDA House
Lahore
Pakistan
Cable address:
WAPDA
Lahore
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of WAPDA may be taken or executed by
its Chairman or such other person or persons as the said Chairman
shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. WAPDA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of WAPDA, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by WAPDA under Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement
or pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-14-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in t)eir respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is! Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
By /s/ A. M. Mufti
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
Except as may otherwise be agreed, contracts shall be let
under procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in August, 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to WAPDA of inland freight and other expendi-
tures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Pakistan may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:


﻿- 16 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the informa-
tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such pref-
erence and the following methods and stages that will be followed
in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of WAPDA and -he Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Pakistan equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Pakistan.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of each group
shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of
this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award.


﻿- 17 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be
selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, WAPDA shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a des-
cription of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) Promptly after the bids have been received, WAPDA shall
inform the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective
amounts of the bids.


﻿- 18-
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, WAPDA shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and the reasons for the intended award and shall furnish to the
Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and WAPDA and state
the reasons for such determination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Bank of the first application for the withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $250,000 but more
than the equivalent of $50,000, WAPDA shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Bank shall


﻿- 19 -
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and WAPDA and state
the reasons for such determination.
3.   Any contract for equipment and materials estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $50,000 shall be exempt from procurement
on the basis of international competitive bidding, provided that
the aggregate of all such contracts shall not exceed the equivalent
of $500,000. Two conformed copies of each such contract shall be
furnished to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for the with-
drawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


