      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      CO-Second Rural Productive Partnerships (P104567)



                                                                                                               Report Number : ICRR0020107


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                            Project Name
 P104567                                               CO-Second Rural Productive Partnerships

 Country                                               Practice Area(Lead)
 Colombia                                              Agriculture



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                     Closing Date (Original)                                     Total Project Cost (USD)
  IBRD-74840                                           30-Sep-2013                                                           122,400,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                   Closing Date (Actual)
  21-Aug-2007                                          30-Jun-2015

                                                             IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                  Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                           30,000,000.00                                                           0.00

  Revised Commitment                                            30,000,000.00                                                           0.00

  Actual                                                        30,000,000.00                                                           0.00




 Sector(s)
 Agro-industry, marketing, and trade(56%):General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector(37%):Central government administration(7%)

 Theme(s)
 Rural markets(67%):Rural policies and institutions(33%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                        ICR Review Coordinator              Group
 Ridley Nelson                      Fernando Manibog                   Christopher David Nelson            IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    The objective in the Loan Agreement dated December 13, 2007 was: to increase rural competitiveness and build up rural entrepreneurship in
    poor rural communities in a sustainable manner through demand-driven partnerships with the commercial private sector.
    The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) specified the same objective.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          CO-Second Rural Productive Partnerships (P104567)




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
      Component 1. Partnership Promotion and Preparation. (Appraisal (quoting Total Project Costs in all cases) US$5.61 million; Actual
      US$12.32 million). This was to finance information campaigns with regional and local governments, business roundtables to publicize the
      project, the evaluation and ranking of partnership proposals, feasibility studies, preparation of legal documents, approval of the financial
      incentive for partnerships, and business/operational plans for partnerships.
      Component 2. Partnership Implementation. (Appraisal US$114.81 million; Actual US $327.13 million). This was to finance grants,
      administered by a Trust Company, not exceeding 40% of the total partnership investment cost, for producer organizations to improve farm
      infrastructure, purchase machinery, and finance inputs. It was also to cover technical advisory services, marketing studies, training
      including training and capacity building for intermediaries, mainly the Regional Management Organizations and the Local Management
      Organizations.
      Component 3. Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. (Appraisal US$2.53 million; Actual US$6.12 million). This financed project
      administrative costs, particularly the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), staff of the Rural Development Directorate (DDR), operational costs
      of M&E, evaluation studies, and technical and financial audits. It included eight decentralized regional teams.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
      Project Cost. Total Project Cost at appraisal was US$122.95 million and actual cost at closing was US$345.57 million. The increase was
      due to a large addition over what was planned for counterpart funding by government, by farmer organizations and by commercial
      partnerships. There were also changes in the exchange rate during the project period.
      Financing. IBRD financed US$30 million (Actual US$29.31 million)
      Borrower Contribution. The government increased its counterpart funding from US$12.93 million planned at appraisal to US$90.63 million
      actual. Local governments were to provide US$24.84 million at appraisal but increased this to US$31.81 million actual. Local farmer
      organizations and partnerships increased their contribution from US$43.18 million at appraisal to US$190.33 million actual.
      Dates. The project became effective on January 17, 2008 and closed on June 30, 2015, nearly two years later than planned. There were
      two relatively minor Level 2 restructurings, mostly involving extensions, on January 17, 2013 and December 19, 2014.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

     Relevance of Objectives.
     The project was highly relevant to the Colombia 2014-18 National Development Plan which had three main pillars: (a) strengthening the peace
     building process and ensuring sustainability to achieve the country’s potential as a nation; (b) the economic and social integration of the rural
     sector and rural communities to close the social disparities by enhancing connectivity for productivity and for access to public goods,
     information, and social services; (c) the reduction of territorial and social urban rural disparities. There was a particular focus on improving
     productivity and business skills among rural communities.
     The project was also highly relevant to the Colombia Country Partnership Strategy FY 12-16. This partnership strategy outlined three main
     areas of support: (a) the expansion of opportunities for social prosperity; (b) the promotion of sustainable growth with greater focus on climate
     resilience; and, (c) the promotion of inclusive growth through enhanced productivity. The ICR argues (page 13) that the project was of
     particular value to the last of these areas of support since it aimed to improve productivity and competitiveness for small-scale rural producers
     and increase their involvement in formal markets.




     Rating
     High
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               CO-Second Rural Productive Partnerships (P104567)




   b. Relevance of Design


       Project design focused predominantly on the promotion of entrepreneurship and the improvement of competitiveness in rural areas. The logical
       chain, which is valid and consistent with the objectives, can be deduced from the PAD approximately along the following lines: a focus on
       Producer Organization alliances with the private sector would enhance productivity by getting better prices for products and by support with
       inputs and technical advice. Support organizations at central, regional and local levels would help to foster these linkages in the chain and
       provide skills and incentives. Partial grant funding would provide an initial extra incentive for beneficiaries to get involved with producer
       organizations and to help them diversify and intensify production. Both producers and private sector processing and marketing entities would
       save costs and both would gain from the greater efficiency. Gradually, public support could be withdrawn and built entrepreneurial skills would
       sustain the process of linking farmers to markets efficiently.
       Despite the earlier Productive Partnership Project, the private sector was still wary of commitments with scattered small and poor farmers.
       Overall, the project design, applying the lessons of the prior project, appropriately addressed the objectives and the logical chain.
       However, IEG finds some weaknesses in the Results Framework. The Key Indicators are focused largely on outputs or at best intermediate
       outcomes and they contribute only partially to answering the objective’s postulated question of whether competiveness or entrepreneurship
       improved. For example, indicators included: total sales volume; the presence of a manager in a producer organization; the presence of a
       system of accounts; the contract renewal of regional management organizations; the number of profiles received; the number of training events;
       and the number of new partnerships in operation. There were a few indicators that were more intermediate outcome-oriented including an
       indicator on cost recovery and one on the sustainability of producer organization/commercial partner relationships. With respect to beneficiary
       farm households, there were no indicators at the design stage to measure what happened to them in terms of farmer competitiveness or
       entrepreneurial skills. Indicators on business sustainability were limited. Nevertheless, although the results framework indicators could have had
       somewhat more focus on competiveness and entrepreneurship at both the alliance and the beneficiary household level, during implementation
       there was, in the end, some evidence collected. Two impact studies, one planned at appraisal, beneficiary workshops, and quite strong M&E
       did fill in for a number of missing performance indicators including comparative income changes between participants and nonparticipants,
       changes in employment, diversification to new enterprises and the repayment rates associated with some of these enterprises. So, while the
       results frame could have set somewhat stronger indicators, some of this weakness was made up for in the impact studies.
       In all other respects, the project was very well designed.




       Rating
       Substantial




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     Improvement of rural competitiveness and entrepreneurship in poor rural communities.

    Rationale
    Implementation Issues and Exogenous Constraints
    There were some implementation challenges identified by the ICR (p. 14) which are relevant to both the sub-objectives discussed below.
    First, budget cuts delayed producer organization formation. This does not, in itself, say anything about eventual competitiveness and
    entrepreneurship, just about the rate of project achievement. Second, there was greater interest than expected in perennial crops, leading
    to delayed marketing and sales until the slower perennial crops’ first yield. Again, this is not a weakness in competitiveness provided the
    economic decisions that led to the greater investment in longer cycle commodities were sound in relation to the cost of capital. Third, there
    was a series of extreme weather events, delaying sales. Again, this does not suggest a weakness in competitiveness, unless perhaps the
    impact of the extreme weather implies a longer-run competitiveness weakness against producers in countries or locations that are not
    facing such climatic events or shifts. There is no evidence of this.
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      CO-Second Rural Productive Partnerships (P104567)



Competitiveness and Entrepreneurship
It is not entirely clear who the competitors were, whether this competitiveness objective was intended to be for the more disadvantaged
small rural farmers to become more competitive against the less disadvantaged or against the well-off larger farmers or against other
sectors within the economy, or against overseas competitors producing rural commodities with export potential.
The main indicator for competitiveness applied under the project was the cumulative value of sales by all producer organizations measured
against a projected expectation of Co$350 million. At an actual achievement of Co$572 million, this target was exceeded by 63%.
(However, discussion with the project team indicates that these were measured in current terms so there is an element of inflation in the
achieved figure although, in terms of border prices, the exchange rate trend to the US$ over the whole project period appears to be fairly
flat, although with considerable fluctuations.) But this indicator is only one proxy indicator of competitiveness and should have been set in
real terms. A more comprehensive measurement of competitiveness could also have included changes in net profit margins, returns on
investment, increases in market share, and other marketing characteristics such as brand recognition vis-a-vis competitors either domestic
or foreign. Nevertheless, the achievement of aggregate sales value beyond expectations does represent one important proxy indicator of
successful competition.

Entrepreneurship typically has characteristics that overlap with competitiveness, calling for: a clear vision of objectives, risk-taking,
business agility, motivation, innovation in business areas or processes, market awareness including quick adjustment to changing
circumstances with shifts in product demand, knowledge of competitors and customers, and acceleration of sales over competitors.The
project did not measure these types of indicators although some are challenging to measure. Nevertheless, it did measure some proxy
indicators. First, by project closing, 83% of participating producer organizations had a manager and 80% were maintaining accounts. These
are necessary but not sufficient for strong entrepreneurship, but exceeded the target of 75% set for both these indicators at appraisal.

The establishment of the 725 partnership producer organizations and their level of sustainability is clearly some evidence of entrepreneurial
success. There were some entrepreneurial weaknesses found by the surveys. 25% of beneficiaries noted slow administrative processes,
19% expressed concerns about membership eligibility criteria, and 18% complained that too many documents were needed. These would
appear to be constraints to agility. However, the percentages of those surveyed who mentioned these problems was not high, in fact some
75% or more apparently had no problems in these areas that they considered worth mentioning. This suggests quite a strong overall
performance in administration.The revolving funds were mainly used for loans to non-beneficiary producers of the same producer
organization (42%), financing technical assistance (25.3%), and purchasing specialized machinery (20.3%). These uses of recycled funds
suggest there is a focus on expansion of business, generally considered important in achieving returns to scale, innovation, and
improvements in efficiency.

Poverty and Welfare Impact
The Beneficiary Survey found that there was quite strong motivation among beneficiaries to achieve fixed and assured sales, to be trained,
to get better sales prices, and to receive the technical assistance. 73% of beneficiaries surveyed mentioned better sales prices as a
motivation for joining.

As noted above, despite the somewhat limited Results Framework Indicators, in the end, data was, in fact, collected by the impact study on
income changes for beneficiaries. Income increase was not an explicitly stated objective other than by implication through the poverty focus
although interestingly it was explicitly part of the objective of the prior project which had specified the objective of generating income and
creating employment. The increase in incomes found was 29% for the project beneficiaries over the control group, measured at a
significance level of 5%. This is a substantial income gain. It triangulates with the claim for improved producer organization competitiveness
and suggests improved beneficiary household competitiveness over households in the control group who, in some respects
presumably, were competitors selling outside partnership arrangements.

A study by CIAT (2014) focused particularly on the disadvantaged groups and found a positive project impact on food security. Households
that received training in productivity and business had a 10% greater probability of being classified as food secure than households that did
not receive this training.

Skills are usually an important element in becoming competitive. The training and technical assistance provided to between 46% and 30%
of beneficiaries compared to between 22% and 12% of non-beneficiaries would not alone prove an advancement of skills without some
evidence of skill changes. But there is, in fact, some evidence of skills changes, 30.8% of beneficiaries were managing accounts or records
compared to 12.3% in the control groups. Also, 13.2% of beneficiaries were using cell phones or the internet for their market information.

The evidence suggests that the project also helped to create employment. Before the project the participating producer organizations
employed an average of 1.7 persons at least half time. By project completion this had increased to an average of 2.8 persons suggesting a
65 percent increase in employment in these organizations. This is arguably indirect evidence of competitiveness since it implies business
growth which can only be sustained if there is some success in competing in the market.
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               CO-Second Rural Productive Partnerships (P104567)



    The ICR reports, and discussion with the project team confirms, that beneficiaries now have greater access to sales contracts, collection
    centers, and transport for products compared to control groups. They also have better access to inputs and credit. These benefits are
    revealed partly in the greater reinvestment measured over the control group. 25.6% of beneficiary producers obtained credit for productive
    investments compared to 16.1% in the control group. Similarly, 18% of beneficiary producers stated that they had savings for future
    investments compared to 7.8% of the control group producers.

    Looking at the extent to which the benefits reached down to the poorest of beneficiaries, the project beneficiaries included 9,252
    households headed by indigenous people and people of Afro Colombian descent. This was arguably the project’s greatest achievement
    since the beneficiary numbers in this category was many times the original target of 1,275. Moreover, in the CIAT study, the performance of
    partnerships involving these disadvantaged groups was as good as, and in some cases better than, those beneficiaries who were not part
    of these disadvantaged groups. Similarly, far more female-headed households were reached (9,922) than the original target (2,550). Since
    the stated project objective clearly specified “… in poor rural communities”, IEG gives a substantial weight to this achievement.
    Looking deeper at the disadvantaged, about 15% of beneficiary households were located in conflict affected zones. The ICR (p.18) reports
    that participation in these conflict zones increased steadily over time. The project team noted the importance of this achievement in the
    build up to the peace accord still under discussion at the time of writing.




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     Sustainability of improved competitiveness and entrepreneurship.

    Rationale
    The Modest rating here is mainly due to concerns about repayment and overall sustainability questions related to continued government
    support due to budgetary concerns arising from the recent financial situation.

    While the objective itself with the supporting indicators was not entirely clear about what form of sustainability was intended, it seems from
    the indicators that what was meant was particularly the sustainability of the partnerships.

    Sustainability is important for competitiveness since equipment needs to be maintained. 82% of producer organizations collected annual
    fees to maintain operations and infrastructure.The ICR reports that the percentage of sustained producer organization activities at project
    closing that had been operating for 24 months or more was 80%, exceeding the 75% target. Furthermore the Impact Study found 97.5% of
    partnerships were still active at project completion. (The discrepancy between these two findings may arise from the different samples and
    timing.) This suggests that the percentage of failed producer organizations was probably below 20%. This is a strong achievement with
    relatively new rural businesses and suggests some competitive success, particularly since, in the previous project, the failure rate was 38%
    at the time of IEGs Project Performance Assessment Report (October 26, 2015). (It should be noted that sustainability indicators in this
    type of project require careful interpretation. As the project team pointed out, sustainability cannot necessarily be equated with
    competiveness because one option for an uncompetitive product mix is to change the product mix within the partnership but another option
    is for the partnership to dissolve and be reborn, perhaps with mostly the same members.)

    The repayment problem is a sustainability concern. There was weakness in the recovery of “grants”. (They are still called grants because
    under the first project, until the year 2008, they were supposed to be grants but at that point they were summarily converted into loans to
    the dismay of many beneficiaries who thought they had been taking grant money.) 64% of the “grants” made from revolving funds were
    recovered against a target of 70%, leaving 36% unrecovered. But, in this area, some producer organizations performed better than others.
    Of the 50% of producer organizations that achieved the target recovery rate of at least 70%, the average amount recovered was 98%
    significantly above the target. However, the ICR and the project team noted that most of the organizations that did not meet the recovery
    target were involved in the production of perennial crops. As noted, there was considerably more interest in perennial crops than had been
    anticipated at appraisal. Perennial crops were also, of course, affected by the slow project startup since they take longer to reach
    breakeven and therefore to achieve a surplus to repay loans. Nevertheless, a 36% non-repayment is significant. It would imply that the
    revolving funds would decline to zero in about three years.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       CO-Second Rural Productive Partnerships (P104567)




 In this respect, it is not clear from the ICR what other debts are carried by the producer organizations or by participating households and it
 is not clear which lenders have the first claim. The debt status may warrant further study.

 There were other concerns expressed by beneficiaries that may have implications for sustainability. Some of these were also expressed by
 beneficiaries in relation to the first project. In particular, there were beneficiary concerns about the demands for high product quality
 because some found it challenging to meet the standards. There were concerns expressed about the prices agreed with commercial
 partners that sometimes turned out to be lower than market prices at the time of harvest. There were some concerns that it was not
 possible for all members of the producer organization to join the project. (The project team explained that this last was due to
 latecomers required to buy in to take advantage of the earlier investments by members, a requirement to avoid latecomer free-riders.)
 Nevertheless, these weaknesses expressed in the surveys need to be weighed against beneficiary responses on the benefits. Benefits
 were more frequently mentioned, including 71% positively noting market expansion benefits, 50% noting lower input costs, 39% noting
 lower storage costs, 34% noting the advantage of buying specialized machinery, 26% noting the obtaining of certification (for quality).

 Finally, the sustainability of producer organizations cannot be entirely divorced from the issue of overall project sustainability given the
 uncertainty about continued government support for what is still a relatively new endeavor. The evidence suggests that there is a continued
 need for technical support to these institutionally young producer organizations yet this need comes during an increasingly tight budgetary
 situation, partly due to the decline in oil prices.




 Rating
 Modest



5. Efficiency

 At appraisal, the Financial Internal Rate of Return to the direct and indirect investments in subprojects was estimated at 18%. Indirect
 investments included project management, M&E, technical assistance and pre-investment studies. The Economic Internal Rate of Return was
 15%.
 At closing, the ICR (p. 43) calculated the Financial IRR, including indirect costs, at 20% and the Economic IRR at 25%. This was higher than
 the appraisal analysis due to adjustments such as labor and machinery shadow pricing that lowered the costs by more than the upward
 benefit from the price adjustments of commodities. (The ex ante rates of return used a quite different range of expected commodities than the
 ex post, but it is not clear why the ex post EIRR is higher than the FIRR whereas ex ante it was the reverse.)
 Overall, the ex post methodology appears sound although it is unclear why it applied a time period significantly shorter than the life span of
 the later implemented and longer investments, in particular rubber. The ex post EIRR was relatively insensitive in the simplified sensitivity
 analysis to the net income decrease of 20% that was tested.
 Based on the sample of 257 partnerships that met the stage of completion criteria for the efficiency analysis study, there were 13,800
 beneficiaries for a total investment from all sources of US$146 million (ICR p.39). This gives what appears to be a quite high average
 expenditure per beneficiary of US$10,500. However, there is no obvious comparator for this.
 In terms of operational and administrative efficiency, the actual disbursement profile ran very close to the planned profile except that the
 project took nearly two years longer than planned to reach closure. However, the extensions were almost entirely for supervision and
 monitoring purposes including support for the PCU. The project was close to fully disbursed soon after the original closing date, suggesting
 substantial operational efficiency.
 Nevertheless, at times during the project period, there were delays in establishment of the producer associations and in 2010 implementation
 progress was downgraded to a rating of Moderately Unsatisfactory for about eight months. This was partly due to insufficient counterpart
 funding. Following this, both counterpart funding and implementation picked up again. So implementation, as the ICR notes (p. 5), was
 uneven, but a substantial portion of the earlier lag was recovered during later improvements in implementation.
 Based on the sound rates of return and the generally strong operational efficiency, overall efficiency is rated Substantial.




Efficiency Rating
Substantial
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       CO-Second Rural Productive Partnerships (P104567)



a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                               Rate Available?              Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                              90.00
 Appraisal                                                                 15.00
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

                                                                                                              90.00
 ICR Estimate                                                              25.00
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

The Relevance of Objectives is rated High. As a second phase, the project was highly consistent with both the country's and the Bank's
strategies and continues to be so. Relevance of Design is rated Substantial on balance. While design was strong overall, there was some gap in
the Results Framework in not setting at least one or two indicators in addition to marketed value that would attempt to measure the stated
objectives of competitiveness and entrepreneurship. The first, and most important, sub-objective related to improved competitiveness and
entrepreneurship in poor communities is rated Substantial on balance, assessed against a number of proxy and more direct indicators,
particularly the success in reaching indigenous people and people of Afro-Colombian descent and the reach into conflict zones. The second,
related to sustainability, is rated, on balance, Modest, partly due to budgetary support questions and weaknesses in revolving fund repayment,
although there were also some strengths. Efficiency is rated Substantial based on sound rates of return significantly above the appraisal
projection and good operational efficiency.



a.    Outcome Rating
      Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Sustainability was a part of the objectives statement and is covered in Section 4 under the sustainability sub-objective, particularly in terms of the
sustainability of the associations.
The ICR argues that sustainability of outcomes will come from improved institutional capacity in the sector, improved technical and managerial
skills of both farmers and producer organizations, improved access to infrastructure, the established revolving funds, and improved collaboration
between the private and public sectors.
However, while there appears to be government commitment and an interest in continuing with a third phase, the ability to continue providing
budgetary support is in question due to a very tight budgetary situation, partly due to the decline in oil prices. IEG questions whether the average
producer association will have reached full institutional maturity in what, for many, has been only a few years of partnership particularly since
some of the perennial crop commodities have not even reached a first harvest and income-generation stage.
There has also been variable performance with the revolving funds and there are uncertainties about operations and maintenance of some
infrastructure. Fees are collected but it is not clear whether they are sufficient to meet the needs.
The ICR also notes concerns about weather risk. Whether the climatic fluctuations experienced during the project are harbingers of a permanent
climatic shift will not be known for some time, but presumably, where strong entrepreneurship in producer associations has been established,
there should now be capacity to adjust to such changes.
However, on balance, there are still significant uncertainties and substantial risks.



a.   Risk to Development Outcome Rating
      Substantial


8. Assessment of Bank Performance
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       CO-Second Rural Productive Partnerships (P104567)




a. Quality-at-Entry
   The design of the project was able to build on the earlier phase and gives evidence of learning the lessons from that phase.
   While adjustments were made to the Results Framework from that first phase, as noted earlier, there was still room for improvement in
   measuring the stated competitiveness and entrepreneurship objectives. This was important because the formulation of the objectives had
   changed from the first phase away from incomes towards these somewhat difficult to measure objectives. If such objectives are stated then
   they need to be measured. Despite this weakness, the project design accommodated well the lessons of experience in terms of eligibility
   criteria, screening, evaluation procedures, and support mechanisms and it also established well the institutional linkages. M&E was
   considerably improved. Based on comparing the ICR for this project with the IEG PPAR for the first project, there is evidence that learning
   was achieved at the design phase



   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   Supervision was satisfactory in frequency and staffing. Review of some of the implementation reports suggests proactive response to emerging
   issues with practical solutions. Professional specializations on the missions were appropriate and quite broad. The ICR does note a few
   weaknesses. For example, changes in World Bank policies and procedures and their implementation led to some delays as the country PCU
   adjusted. One example given by the Borrower’s PCU was that a qualitative tightening of procurement procedures seemed, to them, more like a
   change in the Bank procurement rules.
   The ICR reports (p. 22) that the task team put considerable effort into responding to requests from outside the project and the country for
   learning exchanges and study tours. The project was seen by others as an interesting case for lessons, particularly for Latin America.
   There was an unusually high number of four potentially disruptive changes in World Bank Task Team Leaders over the lifetime of the project.
   Two were during the lending preparation phase and two during the supervision phase. However, there appears to have been little actual
   disruption of the relationship with the PCU from these shifts on the Bank side.



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   Government commitment was variable (ICR p. 23), There were three elections over the life of the project resulting in changes in priorities.
   There were also periods of insufficient government funding, especially arising from the fiscal crisis of 2008.
   In 2010, new elections led to a government strongly committed to rural development which in turn led to stronger support and counterpart
   funding. This was sustained until 2014. At that point there was another election resulting in an administration with less commitment for the
   project’s productive partnerships approach. This was accompanied by another fiscally problematic period and, at that time, no commitment
   for a third phase of the project.



   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The overall government ministry responsible for the project was the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. The Project
   Coordination Unit was the responsible agency within that ministry.
   The PCU performed generally satisfactorily particularly given the shifting political and institutional environment around it. The ICR reports
   (p. 23) that the PCU management was particularly effective at developing a learning culture and applying the lessons of the M&E system.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       CO-Second Rural Productive Partnerships (P104567)



   There were however some weaknesses including problems in complying with fiduciary requirements and the submission of annual audits.
   Some of these problems were out of the control of the PCU itself.
   However, above the PCU, there was sometimes weak and variable performance by the overseeing ministry, MADR. This was particularly
   evident towards the end of the project. These weaknesses were partly due to changes in many senior management positions associated
   with the changing political environment. These problems delayed preparation and implementation of a transition plan, reduced resources,
   and created considerable uncertainty for the future. At project closing, MADR was unprepared to take over supervision responsibility for the
   subprojects. This led to the request for the final project extension. The ICR reports that, as a result of these difficulties, the transition plan
   was never fully implemented.
   With the different ratings for government and implementing agency performance, the aggregate Borrower rating given the overall project
   rating of Satisfactory is Moderately Satisfactory.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   Design was an adapted and improved version of what was used under the first project. However, there remained considerable work to be done
   at preparation and appraisal since the first project (see IEG PPAR dated October 26, 2015) had not achieved an operating M&E system until five
   years after the project was approved. In the case of this second project under review, impact studies were proposed and planned at the project
   design stage.
   As noted earlier, and reported in the ICR (p. 9), there were some weaknesses in indicators. In particular, as noted earlier, there could have been
   more focused indicators to answer the questions of whether competitiveness and entrepreneurship had changed. In particular, there were no
   measures directly looking at competitiveness, although there were some proxy indicators. With respect to one of the indicators chosen, the
   volume of sales, it is rightly noted by the ICR that a more appropriate unit of measurement might have been the percentage change in volume of
   sales over a baseline year.
   There appears to have been a quite clear differentiation of responsibilities for the collection of data including within producer organizations,
   commercial partners, Regional Management Organizations, Local Management Organizations, and the PCU.
   Overall, M&E design was a significant improvement on the earlier project.




b. M&E Implementation

   The ICR reports that the various M&E reporting agencies found it difficult to keep up with the increasing number of partnerships. However, by
   2011, the new online platform improved the efficiency of data collection. It is reported that this particular platform has been recognized by
   external users as a best practice model. It captures, stores, analyzes and accesses information about performance indicators and in addition
   contains information about partnerships, the size and composition of membership, the nature of productive activities, business and
   management processes, and annual operating plans.




c. M&E Utilization
   In many ICRs presented to IEG, there is limited information about M&E utilization. In this case, the evidence is fairly clear that there was
   substantial utilization at all levels mainly because of the easy access (eventually) and the ability to share the data and findings.
   The information from the platform was also picked up by several studies and it was used as a basis for sampling. The final impact evaluation
   in 2015 combined data collected from beneficiary producers and control group producers with data from the online platform. The CIAT study
   also used the M&E data. It is evident that the studies could not have been carried out as they were without the input from the M&E system.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                          Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          CO-Second Rural Productive Partnerships (P104567)




  M&E Quality Rating
  Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   Safeguards
   The project was classified as a Category B. The following safeguards were triggered: Environmental Assessment (OD/BP 4.01), Natural
   Habitats (OD/BP 4.04), Forests (OD/BP 4.36), Pest Management (OD/BP 4.09), and Indigenous Peoples (OD/BP 4.20).
   The PCU had a qualified social and environmental specialist whose responsibility was to monitor compliance with the requirements. This
   included the Environmental Management Plans and the Social Plans. At the producer association level, the safeguard requirements were
   advised and disseminated at the stage of the requests for proposals.
   Environmental Safeguards
   This was rated Satisfactory throughout the life of the project. The productive partnerships were required to do Environmental Impact
   Assessments and to prepare a management plan. There was training on appropriate agricultural practices. By project completion, 88% of
   partnerships complied satisfactorily with the management plan requirements. This was supervised by the local and regional support
   organizations. Regional environmental organizations also monitored. No complaints were received by the Ministry about adverse impacts.
   The ICR reports that the project encouraged sound agricultural practices.
   Social Safeguards
   Similarly, social safeguards were rated Satisfactory throughout the life of the project. At project completion, 86% of partnerships had
   complied satisfactorily. There was an Indigenous Peoples’ and Afro-Colombians’ Development Framework prepared. Preference was given
   to proposals from these groups. This resulted in a much larger number of proposals from these groups than had been anticipated at
   appraisal, 9,252 beneficiary households against the target of 1,275.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Procurement
   Procurement was rated Satisfactory thirteen times and Moderately Satisfactory three times. Some minor inconsistencies were found in a few
   cases but the majority of procurement processes conformed with World Bank procedures. No fraud or corruption issues were detected.

   Financial Management and Audits
   Supervision missions mostly rated these aspects Moderately Satisfactory with four missions rating fully Satisfactory. However there were some
   issues and delays with the hiring of auditors. Most audit opinions were unqualified but from 2012 onwards there were deficiencies in some
   areas. Waivers had to be granted by the World Bank due to late submission in 2012, 2013, 2014 and in the final audit.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   None




d. Other
    ---




12. Ratings
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         CO-Second Rural Productive Partnerships (P104567)



                                                                                                                  Reason for
Ratings                                     ICR                                 IEG
                                                                                                                  Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                     Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                       ---
Risk to Development Outcome                 Modest                             Substantial                        ---
Bank Performance                            Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                       ---
Borrower Performance                        Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Quality of ICR                                                                 High                               ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

There are four main lessons drawn largely from the ICR with adjusted language.

     1 A productive partnerships approach can not only be a cost-effective way to increase productivity, improve competitiveness, and
     link farmers to markets but it can work for disadvantaged farmers’ groups as well or better than established, less poor, farmers’
     groups. In this project there was notable and demonstrated success with the disadvantaged groups both in terms of numbers of groups
     supported which was well above the target and in terms of the quality of their achievement.
     2 Sustaining support for producer groups over an extended period, until they reach maturity, is important for ensuring long-term
     success. In this case, the ICR records that the support was provided over a relatively short 18 to 24 months from the launching of
     partnerships. Since the project still offers somewhat limited length of experience on sustainability and exit milestones for support services, the
     two-year graduation period mentioned in the ICR seems likely to be a bare minimum and quite dependent on country and farmer capacities.
     3 Strong internal communication of project achievements to influential government stakeholders, particularly those contributing to
     sector strategies and budgets, is important for demonstrating success and influencing scaling up. In this case, some of the
     sometimes weak government support can be attributed to insufficient internal “selling” of the project achievements to those with influence.
     4 The Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) can be a valuable source of knowledge and capacity in
     support of farmer-oriented project design and implementation. In this case, CIAT (the International Center for Tropical Agriculture) was
     able to provide insights that led to important lessons for the evaluation of the project and for the design of future similar operations. CIAT
     evidence was central in making the case that productive partnerships can serve disadvantaged groups within the population and that they
     may perform as well as, or better than, the less disadvantaged groups.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

High. The ICR is thorough and well-presented. It shows good understanding of the issues in enhancing entrepreneurial capacity. It offers a
thorough review of the poverty aspects. There is a substantial amount of evidence presented from a number of sources including the M&E
system, the Impact Study and the CIAT study. The issues were clearly identified. Efficacy ratings were supported by evidence with relevance to
the stated objectives. Arguably there could have been a little more attention to answering the question more directly of how competitiveness
and entrepreneurship had advanced but these are clearly difficult things to measure especially with an elusive and limited baseline due to the
emergence of completely new alliance arrangements.
The economic analysis was carefully done and plausible. Sensitivity analysis could have probed a little deeper.
The lessons were well drawn and well justified, although the claim that two years support for such producer alliance arrangements is sufficient
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       CO-Second Rural Productive Partnerships (P104567)



seems optimistic.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     High
