Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
 
LOAN NUMBER 7595-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(
Sergipe State Integrated Project: Rural Poverty 
–
Projeto de Combate a Pobreza Rural no 
Estado do Sergipe “PCPR II – 2a Fase”
)
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
STATE OF SERGIPE 
 
Dated   May 11, 2009
 
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 11, 2009, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and STATE OF SERGIPE 
(“Borrower”). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty million and eight hundred thousand Dollars 
($20,800,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior no-objection of the 
Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the Guarantor’s 
Ministry of Finance, request any of the following Conversions of the terms of the 
Page  3
2
Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan 
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis 
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the 
setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower, through SEPLAN declares its commitment to the objective of the Project 
as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. To this end, the Borrower shall cause the 
Project to be carried out by PRONESE in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
PRONESE’s Legislation (or the legislation pertaining to a future entity 
 
participating in the implementation of the Project, previously agreed between the 
 
Borrower and the Bank) has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to 
 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Technical Cooperation Agreement has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
 
Borrower or PRONESE to perform any of their obligations regarding the project. 
 
Page  4
3
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consist of the following, namely that any event 
 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 90 
 
days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
that the Operational Manual (amended as per the provisions of Section I.A.3. of 
 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement) has been adopted with all its annexes through an 
 administrative 
instruction 
(
Portaria
)
in form and substance satisfactory to the 
 Bank; 
and 
 
(b) 
the Technical Cooperation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
 
Borrower, through its Secretariat of Planning, and PRONESE in form and 
 
substance satisfactory to the Bank.  
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Technical Cooperation Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
 
the Borrower and PRONESE and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
 
PRONESE in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) the
 Loan has been duly registered with the Guarantor’s Central Bank.  
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan which expire on March 23, 
2010.
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretary of Planning. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretaria de Estado do Planejamento de Sergipe 
Rua Vila Cristina, 1051 
Bairro São José 
Aracaju, SE, 49020-150 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: 
(55-79) 3214-7080 
Page  5
4
With copies to: 
 
SEAIN - 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar 
 
Brasília, DF, 70040-906 
 Brazil 
 
 
Facsimile:  
 (55-61) 
3225-4022
 
And to: 
 
PRONESE - 
Empresa de De
senvolvimento Sustentável do Estado de Sergipe 
 
Rua Vila Cristina, 1051 
 
Bairro São José 
 Aracaju, 
SE, 
49020-150 
 Brazil 
 
Facsimile:  
 (55-79) 
3211-8878
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  6
5
AGREED at Aracaju, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By/s/ Makhtar Diop 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
STATE OF SERGIPE 
 
By
/s/ Maria Lúcia de Oliveira Falcon 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
WITNESSED  
 
By/s/ Marcelo Deda Chagas 
 
Governor of the State of Sergipe 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to increase social and economic opportunities for 
Municipalities’ rural poor by improving their access to basic social and economic infrastructure 
and thus contributing to the Borrower’s objective of improving its Human Development Index. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
Part 1: Community Subprojects
Financing grants for small scale community investments (Community Subprojects) 
consisting, 
inter alia, 
of: (a) infrastructure investments such as for rural water supply and 
electrification; (b) social investments such as construction of day care centers and rehabilitation 
of schools and health posts; and (c) other productive investments such as for small-scale 
community agro-processing and minor irrigation schemes. 
Part 2:
 
Institutional Development
(a)  
Provision of technical assistance and training for Community Associations in, 
inter alia, community mobilization and organization, preparation of Community 
Subprojects, as well as operation and maintenance of such Community 
Subprojects.     
 
(b) 
Provision of capacity-building and training to the Municipal Development 
Councils, the Community Associations and to PRONESE with respect to their 
role and responsibilities, the contents of the Operational Manual, subproject 
evaluation and supervision, environmental assessment of Community 
Subprojects, participatory planning and financial management.  
 
(c) 
Carrying out workshops and seminars for the Municipal Development Councils 
and the Community Associations to exchange experiences related to Project 
implementation so as to facilitate the integration with other state or federal 
poverty reduction initiatives. 
 
Part 3:
 
Horizontal Integration
Provision of technical assistance, consultancies, software and system installation to the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Planning to: (i) strengthen result-based management capacity in order 
to improve planning, integration, monitoring and evaluation of public policies and investments 
for poverty reduction; (ii) improve the alignment of public expenditures with the Borrower’s 
development priorities; and (iii) support modernization of the Borrower’s public administration. 
Part 4: Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
Support the overall Project implementation, coordination, supervision, monitoring and 
evaluation activities carried out by PRONESE. 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements 
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall maintain PRONESE with 
responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
The Borrower shall continue, through SEPLAN and PRONESE: (a) preparing and 
furnishing to the Bank annual operating plans and budgets, satisfactory to the Bank, 
detailing the Project activities proposed to be carried out during the next succeeding year 
and the respective sources of funding therefore, by October 30 of each year; and (b) 
furnishing to the Bank the approved annual operating plans and respective budgets 
referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph for each year in question, not later than 
30 days after the approval of the Borrower's annual budget by its 
Assembléia Legislativa
 
(Legislative Assembly). 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall continue, through PRONESE, carrying out the Project in accordance 
with the Operational Manual, the Environmental Management Plan and the Indigenous 
Peoples’ Plan, all as updated in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and the 
approved annual operating plans and respective budgets, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
B.
 
Technical Cooperation Agreement  
 
1.
 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by PRONESE, the Borrower shall maintain 
the Technical Cooperation Agreement and make the proceeds of the Loan available to 
PRONESE under said Technical Cooperation Agreement between the Borrower and 
PRONESE, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank as further specified in the 
Operational Manual. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Technical Cooperation Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the Technical Cooperation Agreement or any of its 
provisions.
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Page  9
8
D. Community 
Subprojects
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make Area Grants to Community Associations in accordance with 
eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank as further detailed in the 
Operational Manual. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause PRONESE to enter into Area Grant Agreements appropriate 
for the carrying out of the Project, such agreements to be made in accordance with terms 
of the respective draft set forth in model forms approved by the Bank and included in the 
Operational Manual (the Model Forms), in which PRONESE shall obtain rights adequate 
to protect its interests and those of the Bank.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause PRONESE to exercise its rights under each Area Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, PRONESE and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall ensure that PRONESE not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive 
any Area Grant Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of indicators set forth in the Operational Manual.  Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty five days after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of 
the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than June 30, 2012. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, not later than forty five days after 
the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period.
 
Page  10
9
Section III. 
Procurement 
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods, Works and Non-
Consultants’ Services.  
 All goods, works and non-
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
Consultants’ 
 Services 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods, works and non-
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
Consultants’ Services
.
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International 
Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and non-
consultants’ services.  
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be 
used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding (including, in respect of goods, non-consultants’ 
services and works, 
convite
,
tomada de preços
 and 
concorrência
 set forth in the 
Guarantor’s Law No. 8.666 of June 21, 1993) 
(b) Shopping (including, in respect of goods and non-consultants’ services, 
pregão  
eletrônico
 set forth in the Guarantor’s Law No. 10520 of July 17, 2002)  
(c) Community Participation procedures described in the Procurement Plan for 
Community Subprojects 
Contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding are subject to the following 
additional procedures, namely that the bidding documents shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection.
 
Page  11
10 
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-based Selection
(b) Least-Cost Selection
(c) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications
(d) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants
(e) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s Prior 
Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions 
(
Carta de Desembolso
)
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from 
time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Page  12
11 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated (Expressed in 
Dollars)
%
of Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1)  Goods, works and 
services (including 
Non-Consultant 
services) required for 
Community 
Subprojects supported 
by: 
(a) Area 1 Grants 
(b) Area 2 Grants 
 
12,370,000 
5,300,000 
 
75% 
 
(2) Consultants’ services                    
and training for Parts 2, 3 
and 4 of the Project 
2,200,000 100% 
(3) Administrative Costs 
(a) incremental 
 
operational costs 
(b) Project supervision and 
 
monitoring costs 
 
40,000 
 
200,000 
 
20% 
 
50% 
 
(4) Front-end Fee 
       52,000 
 
Amount payable pursuant to Section 
2.03 of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General Conditions 
(5) Premium for Interest 
Rate Caps and Collars 
 
0
Amount payable pursuant to Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 4.04 of the 
General Conditions 
(6) Unallocated 
638,000 
 
TOTAL 
             20,800,000 
 
 
B
.
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made for 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments made 
prior to this date but on or after February 1, 2008, but not earlier than 12 months from the 
date of this Agreement, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) through (3).   
Page  13
12 
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011.  The Bank will only grant an extension of the 
Closing Date after the Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank that it 
agrees with such extension. 
Page  14
13 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each  March 15 and September 15 
Beginning March 15, 2014 through 
September 15, 2023 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
Page  15
14 
 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
Page  16
15 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Administrative Costs” means the operational costs and the supervision and monitoring 
costs of the Project incurred by SEPLAN and PRONESE under Part 4 of the Project 
(which would not have occurred absent the Project, including, 
inter alia
,
non-consultant 
services, equipment and computer maintenance, office supplies, utilities, rent for office 
facilities, operation and maintenance of vehicles, repairs, fuel, spare parts and insurance, 
maintenance of the monitoring and information system, travel and per diem costs for 
technical staff of PRONESE carrying out training, supervisory and quality control 
activities, but  excluding expenditures for salaries and related benefits). 
 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Area Grants” means Area 1 Grants or Area 2 Grants. 
4. 
“Area Grant Agreements” means any of the agreements to be entered into between the 
Borrower through PRONESE and a Community Association for an Area Grant.  
5. 
“Area 1 Grant” means grants to be made by the Borrower through PRONESE to a 
Community Association for the financing of the Community Subprojects in the 
Borrower’s 41 Municipalities with the least favorable Human Development Index.  
6. 
“Area 2 Grants” means grants to be made by the Borrower to a Community Association 
for the financing of Community Subprojects in the Borrower’s Municipalities other than 
the Municipalities benefiting from Area 1 Grants.      
7. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
8. 
“Community Association” means an association a civil association formed by members 
of a community (A
ssociação Civil
)
duly established in the Borrower's territory in 
accordance with the Guarantor's laws, and which meets the criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual for participating in the Project. 
 
9. 
"Community Subproject" means any investment referred to in Part 1 of the Project
 
to be 
carried out by a Community Association utilizing the proceeds of an Area Grant, and which 
meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
10. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
 
11. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the document dated April 23, 2008, as 
published and available to the public on the website 
www.pronese.se.gov.br
,
which 
contains the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, including 
measures for chance finding of cultural property, protection of natural habitats and pest 
Page  17
16 
 
management, identification of existing environmental conditions and potential direct and 
indirect environmental impacts from the carrying out of the Project (including from the 
carrying out of Community Subprojects), recommendation of mitigation measures for 
each negative impact identified, as well as measures for enhancing each identified 
positive impact. 
 
12. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008). 
 
13. 
“Human Development Index” means the index which is measured by the Guarantor’s 
Instituto de Pesquisas Econômicas Aplicadas – (IPEA)
 on the basis of the indicators for 
educat
ion, health, and income in the Borrower’s territory. 
 
14. 
“Indigenous Peoples’ Plan” means the document dated April 23, 2008, as published and 
available to the public on the website 
www.pronese.se.gov.br
,
which contains protection 
measures in favor of indigenous peoples located in the Borrower’s territory, including the 
description and location of indigenous areas in the Borrower’s territory, strategy for the 
participation of indigenous peoples in the Project with due respect to their cultural identity, 
institutional partnerships, process of participation, risks and mitigating measures, and 
monitoring and evaluation procedures. 
 
15. 
“Model Forms” means the set of model draft Area Grant Agreements, satisfactory to the 
Bank, as set forth in the Operational Manual.  
 
16. 
“Municipal Development Council” means a municipal council, composed mainly of 
representatives of communities and local organizations, as provided in the Operational 
Manual. 
 
17. 
“Municipality” or “Municipalities” means any and all the municipalities in the 
Borrower’s territory which are eligible to receive an Area Grant pursuant to the criteria 
set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
18. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank and to be approved by the Borrower, which includes, 
inter alia
,
the following: (a) procedures to be followed: (i) in the event that 
environmental issues are identified on the checklist for Community Subprojects; (ii) to 
identify and address potential cumulative environmental impacts from multiple 
Community Subprojects; and (iii) to ensure an integrated pest management approach in 
irrigation investments; (b) a description of the consultations carried out in respect of the 
Environmental Management Plan; (c) the Environmental Management Plan and the 
Indigenous Peoples’ Plan; and (d) revised Model Forms consistent with the requirements 
of Section I.D.2. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; as the same may be amended from 
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
Page  18
17 
 
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
August 4, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
21. “PRONESE” 
means 
Empresa de Desenvolvimento Sustentável do Estado de Sergipe
,
the 
Borrower’s sustainable development company. 
22. 
 “PRONESE’s Legislation” means the Borrower’s Law No. 4.498 of January 2, 2002, as 
amended by Law No. 6.253 of December 11, 2007. 
23. “SEPLAN” 
means 
Secretaria de Estado do Planejamiento de Sergipe
,
the Borrower’s 
Secretariat of Planning. 
24. 
“Technical Cooperation Agreement” means the agreement (
Convênio
)
to be executed 
between the Borrower, through its Secretariat of Planning, and PRONESE for the 
implementation of the Project and in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
