Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22335
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36520; SCPD-3652S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150.00 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A SECOND
SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
JUNE 29, 2001
This docurnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2000)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00 = US$ 0.120817
US$ 1 = Y 8.2770
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATC         -      Area Traffic Control
BAA         -      Barton Aschman Associates
CBD         -      Central Business District
CCTV        -      Close Circuit Television
ETC         -      Electronic Toll Collection
IRR         -      Inner Ring Road
MV          -      Motor Vehicle
NBF         -      Non Bank Funded
NMV         -      Non-Motor Vehicle
NSC         -      North-South Corridor
NUTI        -      Northwestern University Traffic Institute
PDR         -      Preliminary Design Report
PGS         -      Parking Guidance System
PT          -      Public Transport
TA          -      Technical Assistance
TMP         -      Traffic Management Program
TMS         -      Traffic Management and Safety
SMCC        -      Shanghai Municipal Construction Commission
SMEAD       -      Shanghai Municipal Engineering Administration Department
SMEC        -      Snowy Mountain Engineering Corporation
SMECC       -      Shanghai Municipal Engineering Construction Company
SMG         -      Shanghai Municipal Government
SMTAB       -      Shanghai Municipal Transport Administration Bureau
SPSB        -      Shanghai Public Security Bureau Traffic Police Patrol and General Brigade
STC         -      Shanghai Transit Company
STERI       -      Shanghai Traffic Engineering Research Institute (STERI) of SPSB
SUPDRI    -        Shanghai Urban Planning Design and Research Institute
VMS         -      Variable Message Signs
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager/Director:   Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Edward B. Dotson, EASTR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
SECOND SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 10
6. Sustainability                                                                     12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      13
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                     15
9. Partner Comments                                                                   20
10. Additional Information                                                            31
Annex 1. Key Perfornance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  32
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  35
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  37
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  39
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 43
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                   44
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                 45
Map: IBRD 31441
This document has a restricted distribution  and  may be used by recipients only  in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003 622                                     Project Name: SHANGHAI MTP II
Team Leader: Edward B. Dotson                            TL Unit. EASTR
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR          Report Date: June 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: SHANGHAI MTP II                               L/C/TF Number: CPL-36520;
SCPD-3652S
CountryIDepartment: CHINA                                               Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: TU - Urban Transport
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD.  02/22/1990                              Effective: 03/08/1994         03/08/1994
Appraisal:  02/10/1993                               MTR:
Approval:  10/14/1993                             Closing: 12/31/1998           12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  People's Republic of China/Shanghai Municpality with its Construction
Commission; People's Republic of China/Shanghai Municipal Engineering
Construction Company and Other Agencies of Shanghai Municiplality.
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President.     Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Russell J.Cheetham
Country Manager:     Yukon Huang                               Shahid Javed Burki
Sector Manager:      Jitendra N. Bajpai                        Daud Ahmad
Team Leader at ICR:   Edward Dotson                            Stephen Stares
ICR Primary Author:   Edward Dotson; Ephrem Asebe
This project was the second of two metropolitan transport projects providing assistance to Shanghai
Municipal Government (SMG), with similar objectives and design, overlapping implementation periods and
the same implementing agency. The first project was the Shanghai Metropolitan Transport Project (SMTP
I: ID-P003565). Given their similarities, a single assessment has been made covering the two projects, but
separate reports have been printed. These contain the same text and annexes, except for sections 1 and 2,
and Annexes 2, 4, 5 and 6.
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability. HL
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: HS                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The two metropolitan transport projects (SMTP I & II) providing assistance to Shanghai Municipal
Government (SMG) had similar objectives. For SMTP I, the original objective was to provide the basis for
developing an efficient transport system in the Shanghai Metropolitan Region by:
(a) increasing capacity, reducing congestion, and improving efficiency in the Shanghai urban transport
network, and
(b) improve the planning, programming, financing, and management of the urban transport system in
Shanghai.
The project represented the first stage of a long-term program intended to upgrade and develop the urban
transport infrastructure of Shanghai to meet the needs of a developing economy.
For SMTP II, the original objectives of the project, in support of the economic and social development of
Shanghai, were:
(a) to enhance economic productivity by improving the operational and economic efficiency of the
urban transport system; and
(b) to strengthen public sector management capacity by improving the planning and management of the
urban transport system.
SMTP I was the first urban transport project undertaken by the Bank in China. In 1991 at the time of the
appraisal update of SMTP I, roads occupied 5% of the land surface of Shanghai (compared to 15% in
similar cities in other countries); average traffic speeds were 15 km/hr with bus speeds at 8 km/hr; the
vehicles fleet was 200,000 (53% trucks), the bicycle fleet 6.5 million and the bus fleet 5500. Five different
entities were responsible for transport, and the ad hoc transport planning task force had just been turned
into a permanent transport planning institute. The SAR stated that the road network did not have sufficient
capacity to accommodate existing, let alone future vehicle flows. Viewed against this background, the
project objectives were clear and well related to the analysis of the issues in the sector. They represented a
balanced emphasis on physical works and institutional capacity building in the sector.
The SMTP II objectives represented a logical extension of the SMTP I objectives into economic
development and city management, reflecting the broadening of the dialogue between the Bank and the
Shanghai Municipal Government (SMG). In 1990, with Bank assistance, a process was begun to articulate
Shanghai's comprehensive reform policies, establish detailed action plans for implementation of reforms,
and link the future expenditure program and institutional development of Shanghai to the reform program.
In 1991, SMG launched the Shanghai Economic Reform Action Program (SERAP), and it was agreed that
future Bank lending to Shanghai should be linked to the implementation of the SERAP. Municipal
infrastructure reform was one of the six activities in SERAP. Within this activity, the key areas of reform
were:
(a) price reform aimed ultimately at full cost recovery for urban services
(b) strengthening autonomy of public utility agencies (including Shanghai Transit)
(c) enabling the use of enterprises as contractors to provide services such as public transport
(d) regulation and guidance by updating and strengthening spatial planning, integration of
infrastructure investment with spatial planning, and strengthening of planning, programming and
budgeting procedures.
SMG placed great emphasis in SERAP on the expansion of the city into the Pudong area, located on the
east side of the Huangpu River. A key factor in developing Pudong was the improvement of the transport
- 2 -



across the Huangpu River. The Inner Ring Road (IRR) proposed for the Puxi area west of the Huangpu
River, was to be extended via the Nanpu and Yangpu bridges in Pudong. Besides providing arterial road
access to Pudong, the function of the IRR was to divert through-traffic away from the established city
center in Puxi, and provide a link with regional routes from the surrounding provinces of Jiangsu and
Zhejiang to Shanghai Port. The Bank financed the IRR, while the Asian Development Bank provided some
finance for the bridges.
Apart from resettlement, environment, and the Project Implementation Unit, conditions in the
implementation program of the project agreements related to transport investment plans, traffic
management, reform of the transit company, motor vehicle emission control strategy, and technical
assistance. The topics covered under project conditionality were appropriate and did not appear unrealistic
at the time.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original project objectives were maintained throughout implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
SMTP I Project Components:
A.    Major Road Investments (Inner Ring Road Stage 1, US$131.9 million or nearly 90% of total
project cost of SMTP 1). These investments were the core of the project and were designated for major
road construction along the existing ZhongShan Inner-Ring Road, a high-volume bypass route encircling
the old central city. The credit supported the construction of a 5.5 km viaduct over Zhongshan Road, with
associated surface improvements. The viaduct was designed as a high speed arterial while the surface road
was to be upgraded to four motor vehicle lanes with segregated NMV lanes.
B.    Traffic Safety and Management (US$11.7 million or nearly 8% of the total project costs). The
credit would finance traffic management and safety measures including the introduction of a 1.1 km
busway and 19 km of non-motorized vehicle roads.
C.    Technical Assistance (US$4.6 million or about 2% of the total project costs).
TA was designed to strengthen the municipality's capabilities for planning and implementing urban
transportation measures, effecting improvements in traffic and safety, and improving bus operations.
SMTP II Project Components:
A.    Construction of the Inner Ring (IRR) Stage 2 (US$574.6 million or 87% of SAR project cost
estimates). The loan would finance the construction of a further 22 km of Inner Ring Road on the west
bank of the Huangpu River.
B.    Traffic Management and Safety (US$44.9 million or 6.5% of the total SMTP II SAR estimates).
This component was to extend the traffic management plan started under SMTP I.
C.    Public Transport Investments (US$36.5 million or 5.5% of SMTP II SAR estimates).
This is to construct and equip two bus depots and one bus interchange for Shanghai Transit.
D.    Technical Assistance (US$ 1.1 million or 1% of the costs of SMTP estimates)
The TA was to support project implementation and to give further support to transport planning institutions.
- 3 -



3.4 Revised Components:
SMTP I.
A     Major Road Investments.
(i) Inner Ring Road viaduct works in SMTP II of contract 2.7 and the corresponding ground level works
of contract 1.13 and 1.14 were transferred to SMTP I. Ramps were added to the viaduct. This
extended the length of Zhongshan Road works under SMTP I from 5.5 km to 7.4 kIn. Works included
the refurbishing of #3 Bridge.
(ii) Ramps at Zhoujiang Road and Jinshajiang Road were added after completion of the IRR viaduct to
improve traffic flow.
B.    Traffic Management The NS Corridor (NSC) Program was deleted from the TM component.
C.    Technical Assistance. Some minor modifications were made. The availability of funding from the
French Government to support strategic planning and feasibility studies permitted a reallocation of SMTP
1 project funds for expansion of Institutional Development of transport planning capabilities.
SMTP II.
A.    Construction of the Inner Ring (IRR) Stage 2. The share of IBRD contribution in Category I,
Civil Work Schedule I, in the original Loan Agreement was amended as of January 1994, from 38% to
53% to accommodate change in exchange rate of 5.7 to 8.2 RMB to USD.
B.    Traffic Management. Various detailed changes were made to the schemes included in this
component.
C.    Public Transport. Construction of the new depot at Yinhang was replaced by construction of a
multi-story garage and routine maintenance facility within the confines of the Siping road depot.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Neither project was ever selected for review by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG).
Strategies. Both projects were presented to the Board before the first CAS was prepared for China. The
World Bank urban transport policy prevailing at the time of preparation was published in 1986. This
emphasized the importance of managing demand for road use, improving efficiency by traffic management
and self supporting bus services to secure economically efficient urban movement, while acknowledging
that expansion of road capacity may be unavoidable when the demand for urban transport grows rapidly.
The Bank's urban sector lending strategy in China was to
(a) assist the government in planning and prioritizing needs for urban services and to prepare cost
effective projects
(b) help strengthen institutions (responsible for planning, preparing, constructing and operating urban
services) through support for organizational improvement and staff training
(c) promote sound financial and cost recovery policies for urban services
(d) help develop sector policies and strategies supportive of China's overall reform program.
In the areas of urban planning, finance, and management, China was looking to the Bank for transfer of
knowledge gained in other countries. The two projects were consistent with these strategies and the
Shanghai Economnic Reform Action Plan.
-4 -



Country and Sector Knowledge. The Bank started building a body of country and urban sector knowledge
in China from 1981, coupled with a series of studies to provide information on the urban transport sector in
Shanghai. These studies provided an adequate underpinning of the project.
Lessons of Experience. SMTP 1 was the first Bank urban transport project in China, and so there was no
China specific experience to draw on. Experience from a review of 15 PCR/PAR in other countries was
used. The main relevant lessons related to
*  weak institutional capacity - which was addressed through TA
*  weak enforcement of traffic regulations - which was addressed by making traffic management
schemes "self enforcing" and by involving the SPSB (traffic police) in their design
*  inefficient public transport operations - which were addressed through TA, and
*   lack of consideration of environmental impacts - which was acknowledged as a potential cause for
concem as motorization increased, despite increased political awareness
Appropriateness of Project Approach. When SMTP I was identified on May 1988, SMG presented three
large infrastructure projects for possible Bank group funding. Given that the client was new to the Bank,
the Bank team selected part of one of the projects (the IRR) for SMTP 1. Traffic management (in line with
sector policy) and TA for capacity building and improving PT (in line with lessons learned) were added.
When it became clear that the client had the institutional and engineering capacity to undertake major civil
works, the remainder of the IRR was included in SMTP II. This approach was entirely appropriate in the
circumstances.
Borrower Ownership. The Borrower was highly commnitted to the IRR component of both projects which
they saw as an essential elements in their strategy for the development of Pudong. There was Borrower
ownership, but with a lesser priority attached, to the ATC system and the PT investments.
Partnership Arrangements. The projects were prepared with assistance from funding provided by the
French and US Governments. SERAP was prepared by SMG with assistance from the Bank, UNDP and
the Ford Foundation. The Nangpu and Yangpu Bridges at either end of the Bank financed sections of the
IRR, were part financed by the ADB.
Technical Aspects. In depth planning, feasibility, and technical studies and economic analyses, funded by
SMG or bilateral donors were undertaken at the request of the Bank during the preparation of both
projects. These covered urban development, finance, public transport, traffic management, road safety,
road maintenance and the design of the ring road. The extent of the studies reflected in part the
uncertainties of doing business with China as a new Bank client. While the key issue of the functional
design parameters (including the number of lanes) of the IRR was discussed between the Bank and SMG
during preparation missions, analysis is inadequately presented in the two SARs. It was generally assumed
that land cost and availability limited the IRR to 2 x 2 lanes and that traffic demand in excess of this
capacity would be met by other new roads, specifically the Second/Outer Ring Road. However inadequate
capacity was seen as a risk. Greater discussion of IRR functional design options in the SAR was a
weakness in the technical analysis. The PAD structure facilitates the discussion of such issues in a way that
the SAR structure did not.
Economic Evaluation. This followed standard methodology of estimating benefits from the IRR as vehicle
operating cost (VOC) and time savings with and without the project. At the time the evaluation was
considered an example of good practice.
Financial Analysis. This analysis verified the financial capacity of SMG to provide counterpart funds and
repay the credit and loan. There was discussion of operating cost recovery from user fees (not just public
- 5 -



transport fares). No attempt to calculate the coverage of project costs or of the SMG transport program
from user fees.
Poverty and Social Aspects. The project was not intended to address directly poverty reduction or gender
issues. Preparation for resettlement was carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines on involuntary
resettlement by dedicated staff within a legal framework, well organized institutional network, and well
defined compensation policies. The quality of the RAP was quite good since the scope of impacts and the
amount of entitlement changed little during implementation. The only resettlement drawback foreseen was
the increased commuting distance for most resettled residents.
Environmental Aspects. In general, the EA addressed adequately the environmental impacts, but did
require strengthening in some areas. Measures to mitigate impacts adjacent to the IRR including noise
barriers were adequate, as were proposals to reduce the pollution at source through a Motor Vehicle
Emission Control Strategy (including cleaner engines and fuels), which was included as a project condition.
The third mitigation measure proposed - land use changes along the IRR through redevelopment - appeared
realistic. Environmental policies and institutional capacity were adequately assessed, which resulted in TA
being proposed to support the preparation of a MVECS. There was little if any consultation or disclosure,
as was current Bank practice at the time. The projects also predated the assignment of environmental
category. Due to the environmental impacts and resettlement, the projects would have been classified as
Category 'A'.
Financial Management. No assessment was made of Financial Management Systems.
Procurement. The procurement arrangements for the projects took into account experience from previous
Bank financed projects and used model bidding documents developed for China. Intemational procurement
was to be undertaken by International Tendering Companies (ITC) experienced in Bank ICB.
Policy and Institutional Aspects. As discussed earlier, as these were the first two urban transport projects
undertaken in China, extensive analysis was undertaken of these aspects. The only weaknesses foreseen
were in technical areas that were relatively new to SMG, and for which TA was included in the projects.
Implementation Arrangements. No project implementation plan was prepared, but the Borrower did
provide realistic implementation schedules for both projects. The first year program was ready for
implementation. Project management arrangements were clear, with a Project Implementation Unit having
overall responsibility for project management, and sub-PIU dealing with each component. TA was
provided to assist the PIU in the initial years.
RiskAssessment and Management. The risks identified were purely technical. They included delays in
demolition, resettlement and construction, inadequate IRR capacity, inadequate traffic engineering at
viaduct interchanges, inadequate or delayed traffic management measures.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
While the two projects shared two similar key objectives, each had specific objectives, which are discussed
separately.
Increasing capacity in the urban transport network. The construction of the elevated ring road and the
associated improvements to the ground level roads increased the physical capacity of the road system by up
to 90,000 vehicles/day on the most heavily used sections. Other roads built during the time period of the
projects, notably the N-S Chengdu Road viaduct and the E-W Henan Road viaduct also added road
capacity. The traffic management schemes increased the practical capacity of the existing road network,
- 6 -



but to a lesser extent than envisaged, due to a reduction in the numbers of schemes implemented. The bus
depots facilitated increase in public transport capacity (bus numbers and route length increased by over
250%) and operating efficiency, and elimination of the operating subsidy.
Reducing congestion. Overall congestion along the ring road corridor and within the Central Business
District in Puxi has been reduced. Despite an almost ninefold increase in vehicle trips to/from/within the
CBD, the network volume/capacity ratio has fallen (from 0.8 to 0.75). Cross town travel speeds have
increased from 12 km/hr to 24 km/hr on some trips, and from 18 km/hr to 29 km/hr on others, resulting in
time savings of up to 50 minutes on 20 km trips. However, the 2 x 2 lane (without emergency lanes)
configuration adopted for the elevated road has proved insufficient for the travel demand. Year 2000 flows
are double those predicted in 1991 and the design capacity is being exceeded in some sections. Thus
congestion is starting to re-emerge at peak times on some sections and some ramps of the ring road. This is
being addressed operationally through monitoring, ramp control and more effective traffic management
where the ramps meet the ground level roads.
Enhance Economic Productivity. Economic productivity, measured by Gross Regional Product increased
dramatically during the project from 8.94 Billion in 1991 to 40 Billion RMB in 1999. The extent to which
the IRR and other investments contributed to this increase, or that the overall investment in transport
contributed, is difficult to quantify. Improvements were realized in the operational efficiency of the various
elements of the urban transport system - the overall road network (as measured by the sort of increases in
operating speeds and throughput indicated above). For the bus network, staff per bus were reduced to 5: 1,
operating subsidies were eliminated, while service was expanded. Improvements were also realized in
economic efficiency as trips/head increased by 25% while average trip time increased by only 10%.
Improve planning, programming, financing and management of the urban transport system. There are
two ways to judge the achievement of this objective - by looking at the individual components of the
system, and then the system as a whole. In termns of transport planning, the results are highly satisfactory.
The Shanghai City Comprehensive Transport Planning Institute (SCCTPI) received TA support in both
projects. SCCTPI has grown in capacity and stature to the point where it is now providing consulting
services (with limited Bank guidance) on recently prepared Bank urban transport projects in China (Urumqi
and Shijiazhuang). It recently completed the 2020 Transport Strategy for Shanghai. The methodology
included separate studies on the highway and rail networks (modeled on the Hong Kong approach), as well
as consideration of multiple options. SMG is in the process of developing detailed transport policy for
2020, based on the Strategy, with the assistance of European consultants.
Programming andfinancing - Programming of works is still undertaken based on the National five year
plans. Financing is still from a variety of sources with no requirement for sectoral cost recovery. The
results therefore in terms of these items are less than satisfactory.
Transport System Management. The results are satisfactory. The traffic management components and TA
achieved the principal objective of providing the basis for developing an efficient urban transport system.
Evidence of a change of attitudes towards traffic management is clear together with its enhanced status.
An understanding of the broader range of activities which come under the umbrella of traffic management
was gained. The flexibility of traffic management was recognized and fully exploited. The traffic
management strategy developed under the component and endorsed by SMG was incorporated into the
latest Shanghai Master Plan.
There has been a significant change in status and image of traffic management. There is more awareness
of the scope of traffic management planning and design - and not just the police remits of operations and
- 7 -



enforcement. The TA was particularly successful with regard to the traffic police (SPSB). Not only did
staff become exposed to traffic management planning and design issues, but their particular operational
remits were enhanced by overseas training. Many of the ideas put forward in the project were subsequently
applied elsewhere in Shanghai. There is now better temporary traffic management during construction.
The use of Area Traffic Control to improve the efficiency of the road system was very successful.
However to date there appears to be limited awareness of the need for travel demand management, starting
with parking policy. However, it is understood that this is one of the topics to be addressed in the transport
policy studies recently commissioned by SMG from international consultants.
For Public Transport, the results are highly satisfactory. In early 1996, the Shanghai Public Transport
Company (SPTC) was reorganized into Shanghai Public Transport General Company, an umbrella
company, and 13 operating companies, all of which were to be financially and operationally independent.
A Shanghai Public Transport Limited Joint-Stock Company was established to hold the state-owned assets
for all 13 companies. The city's municipal finance bureau then contracted with each of the 13 companies
on an area basis, including provisions for subsidies. These allowed subsidies to be given on a declining
basis for losses incurred over the three year period (1996 to 1998). The savings from operating subsidies
were redirected to increased capital investment. A passenger transport management division was
established under Shanghai Public Utility Bureau in order to regulate the passenger transport sector and
manage the tendering of all new bus routes to the 13 companies and 100 or so other eligible public
transport companies. In other words, the 13 operating companies compete amongst themselves and with
other operators for the operating rights to new routes. More recently this division has been separated out
from the Public Utilities Bureau and a Public Transport Management Office has been created.
Vehicular Air Quality Management. The results are highly satisfactory. A leading group for emissions
control was established. The Chair is the Deputy Director of SEPB. A action plan was developed and
Shanghai is five years ahead of other cities in China in this field. Specific actions that have been taken
include introduction of unleaded fuel in October 1, 1997, and the introduction (in 1998 two years ahead of
national standards) emission standards for new light duty vehicles. Competitive bidding is underway for a
demonstration project for the implementation of a centralized Inspection and Maintenance (I/M) system for
light duty vehicles. Emission standards for diesel vehicles are at an advanced stage of preparation.
Strengthen public sector management capacity. Overall the results look satisfactory. However,
management of the street and elevated highway networks is under separate agencies. It is acknowledged by
SMG that better management and traffic control system integration is needed, particularly for incident
management.
Improving efficiency. The works and equipment in the traffic management components directly improved
the operating efficiency of the street network, as the falls in cross-town travel times show. However the
efficiency gains were less than would have been expected as the extent of traffic management was less than
planned. In particular, measures for non-motor vehicles (bicycles) that were implemented generally
resulted in efficiency gains for MV traffic only. Works and equipment in the public transport components
improved the efficiency of operation of the bus system. However as few on street bus priority measures
were implemented, the improvements were less than anticipated at appraisal. The creation of a primary
road network (comprising the ring road and the N-S and E-W viaducts) catering for longer distance
intra-urban movements further raised the overall operating efficiency of the road network by segregating
longer distance traffic from shorter distance access and local traffic and bus traffic, permitting each type of
network to perform the functions for which it was intended. TA for STC reform and the development of
pavement management systems improved the efficiency of bus operations and road maintenance.
- 8 -



Resettlement.  Based on a recent survey, most resettled households were generally satisfied. Most agreed
that the resettlement had helped them to increase their living space and housing quality, and improve their
living environment. The time for commuting (which was the main concern at appraisal) had reduced with
the improvement of services by Shanghai Transit. For most resettled people the objective of restoring their
living conditions and livelihood had been achieved.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Shanghai Inner Ring Road Civil Works were satisfactorily completed in two stages and open to traffic
ahead of schedule and within overall budget, although some contracts of sub-components experienced cost
overruns exceeding 15%. The quality of the civil works was generally of a high standard. The completed
IRR civil works has met the physical targets set under SMTP I and II. A total of 29 km of elevated road
and associated ground road, 41 ramps, and 4 interchanges were completed. The elevated road is a four-lane
dual carriageway with a design speed of 80 km per hour and a traffic capacity of 3,005 vehicles per hour in
each direction. The ground level road, ranging in width from 40 to 50 meters, is a four lane dual
carriageway with a design speed of 40 km per hour and a design capacity of 1,650 vehicles per hour in
each direction. The ground road has non-motorized vehicle lanes and foot paths in both directions. The
ramps are two lanes. Gonghexin road interchange and Luban road interchange connect the elevated IRR
and north-south elevated road. The western Yanan interchange connects the Inner Ring Raod viaduct and
theYanan Road viaduct. The IRR is equipped with monitoring and traffic accident rescue systems.
SMTP I & I. Traffic Management and Safety Components. In tenrs of resource allocation (with US$56.7
or 7% of the total cost) it is second only after IRR cost. In terms of implementation this was the most
complex part of the project. Implementation require the creation of traffic management coordination team
which sought to bring together members from different agencies. The component which was in both SMTP
I & II was satisfactorily completed but after a protracted delays and substantial modifications. The delays
in implementation of this component was a key factor in the extension of SMTP I and II closing dates. As
the same problem has arisen in other projects in China, it would be prudent to include loan conditions on
the implementation schedule for traffic management works in future projects.
Non-Motor Vehicle Programs. The delays and accidents caused by motor vehicles conflicting with
non-motor vehicles (NMNV) were major problem throughout Shanghai's urban area. In accordance with
NMV action program two way NMV only routes have been established but their performance remained
less than satisfactory due to lack of lane discipline, lack of respect for traffic signals at junctions,
uncontrolled parking of vehicles conflicts with pedestrian and diverted traffic from major construction
works, pedestrian jay walking at traffic light junctions, etc. Lack of channelization was a major problem.
On the whole the NMV program has helped mitigate these conflicts by creating an exclusive non-motorized
vehicle route passing in and around CBD, approximately 19.4 km in length.
Technical Assistance of SMTP I and II. The technical assistance components of SMTP I & II were
complementary. They were completed successfully and generally as specified in the SAR. The availability
of funding from the French Government to support strategic planning and feasibility studies, permitted a
reallocation of SMTP 1 project funds for expansion of Institutional Development of transport planning
capabilities. These TAs have served an important means of transfer of technology.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return.
The post construction economic appraisal of the Inner Ring Road was undertaken following the same
methodology used at appraisal. The main differences were an overall cost increase of 21%, a shorter
-9-



construction period (three years instead of four), and the possibility to include network benefits. The
principal benefits in the "with project" case compared to the "without project" case included (a) savings in
vehicle operating cost of traffic on the ring road and (b) savings in passenger time of traffic using the ring
road, and (c) vehicle operating cost savings and time savings on the central city network (within the ring
road) and on the rest of the network. At appraisal benefits in stream (c) were omitted from the calculation
as a traffic model robust enough to give reliable estimates was not available at the time. The recalculated
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) estimated to be 27.6% taking both stages of the IRR in SMTP I
& II together. The NPV @ 12% discount rate is 61 Million RMB, and the Benefit Cost Ratio is 2.6. At
appraisal, the EIRR estimates for the Inner Ring Road for Stage 1 and Stage II respectively were 18% and
15%, which would drop to 16.5% and 14% with a 15% cost increase. Removing the network benefits
brings the recalculted EIRR down to 14%, close to the appraisal estimates with a 15% cost increase.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
One objective of each project was concerned with institutional development. As noted above, the
achievement of these objectives was satisfactory. In the nine years spanned by the implementation of the
two projects, institutional development has been substantial. Competitive bidding for both NCB and ICB
procurement by SMG agencies is now standard practice. Foreign consultant services are used to provide
advice on policy. The regulator and operator functions of the public transport system have been separated.
The vertically integrated monopoly bus operator has been split into a total of 13 separate commercialized
operators, capable of competitive tendering for service provision without operating subsidy. Institutions
capable of undertaking transport modeling and traffic management exist.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Chinese economy grew in the 90's faster than envisaged. The Government exerted substantial
management influence on the economy, but was not able to completely control it. As a result the vehicle
fleet and travel demand increased more than envisaged.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The key factor subject to central government control was the change in exchange rate. The economic
growth in Shanghai produced a pressure for redevelopment which in theory was within SMG ability to
control. In practice, the institutional framework to manage such redevelopment was not developed. This
made it very difficult to design and implement TM schemes.
Land acquisition for Yinhang Depot. The sub-component was not implemented because of difficulties in
land acquisition and resettlement. The site was changed from the one identified in SAR to the current
Spring Depot of Shanghai No. 1 Bus Company.
Construction schedules for the IRR were accelerated from those originally established at appraisal, with
some cost increases as a result.
Bankfunding ratio at 15% for TM was lower than the 24% used for the IRR and PT components.
Combined with the importance attached to the construction of the IRR, this provided less encouragement to
the TM team than to the IRR team to solve the problems that arose.
- 10-



Role of the Leading Group. This group provided high level policy support for the project, and had a
responsibility for implementation policy and issues. Even so, it does not appear to have been used during
project implementation to resolve specific project design or project management issues that could not be
resolved by the PIU. This applied particularly to the differences of view in the traffic management
component on the priorities to be accorded to different categories of traffic (MV, bus, NMV, and
pedestrians), which were one of the factors slowing implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Focus on the IRR construction. The objectives of the Shanghai Municipal Engineering Construction
Company (SMECC) was to complete the IRR. There was a lack of consideration about how the IRR
would operate. This was evident in the early lack of concem about the interface of the IRR with the ground
level road network, particularly the at-grade junctions where on- and off-ramps connected. Several Bank
missions raised this issue throughout the project and expressed concem about junction designs. Ultimately,
innovative traffic management measures focusing on multi-phase lane-control signalling solved these
problems.
Ownership of the TM component. TA was provided before and during the projects to assist the Shanghai
agencies prepare and implement the schemes. The consultants had to try to form a partnership with
Shanghai team but this was hard to achieve since local expertise was lacking initially. While the
counterpart working relationships were very close, there was probably not a true partnership established.
This may have resulted in undue consultant influence on the content of the proposals. In retrospect,
Shanghai agencies may never have fully owned the proposals.
Output of TA for STC. The output from this TA was considered by STC not to have been of great value in
detailing their reform proposals. In theory agencies should be able to ensure that outputs are of value. In
practice this is difficult in policy areas, and where agencies have limited experience of dealing with
consultants, particularly foreign consultants.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total Appraised and Actual Costs of SMTP I and II Projects by Component
(in million US Dollar)
SMTP I & II Component        Appraisal                   Actuallatest Estimates          % of
Appraisal total
SMTP I  SMTP 11   Total   SMTP I   SMTP   Total    to Actual total
______________________________   ________   __________  II    of SMTP  I &II
A. Inner-Ring Roads of Stage I & 2  131.93  574.67   706.6   146.38   524.65   671.03        95%
B. Traffic management and Safety  11.74    44.89   56.63    14.13    25.29    39.42          70%
C. Public Transport Investments  0.00      36.46   36.46     0.00    30.44    30.44          83%
D. Technical Assistance         4.58        1.1   5.68       4.28     1.66     5.94         105%
Tota]                          148.25     657.12  805.37    164.79   582.04   746.83         93%



Total Appraised and Actual Costs of SMTP I and II Projects by Component
(in million of Chinese Yuan)
SMTP I & II Component    Appraisal                      Actual/latest Estimates        % of
Appraisal total
SMTP I  SMTP 11  Total      SMTP I  SMTP II  Total    to Actual total
of SMTP I
&Hl
A. Inner-Ring Roads of Stage I & 2    688.68    3,275.6  3,964.28  1,138.97   3,641.89  4,780.86  121%
B. Traffic management and Safety  61.30  255.9    317.2    87.41    207.52   294.93        93%
C. Public Transport Investments  0.00   207.8    207.8     0.00    250.90    250.9        121%
D. Technical Assistance       23.94       6.5    30.44    34.27     13.90    48.17        158%
Total                         773.92           4,519.62  1,260.65   4,114.21  5,374.86    119%
Ratio between costs in Y to US$  5.22    5.70     5.65     7.65      7.68    7.196
The tables provide a comparison of the appraisal estimates of SMTP I and SMTP II costs with Bank Staff
actual/latest estimates.
Project Financing.
IDA credit financed 40% of SMTP I total project cost of US$148.3 million equivalent. The total amount
of SDR credit was US$44.4 million or US$60.00 million equivalent at appraisal. Due to the appreciation
of the SDR relative to US Dollar, the total credit became US$ 62.99 million. A total of US$61.27 million
was disbursed and the balance US$1.72 (SDR1.25 million) was cancelled. IBRD loan financed 20.3% of
the total SMTP II cost of loan was US$150 million. The total disbursed is about US$148.0 million.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
All components are likely to be physically sustainable. The capacity and efficiency gains through road
construction, traffic management and public transport reform are also sustainable. So too are the public
sector management capacities. The major question mark is whether the overall road conditions are
sustainable. Given that congestion is already apparent at certain locations and certain times on the ring
road the answer is clearly that without other measures, the gains in travel times over the past ten years will
be eroded over the next ten. More sophisticated management of the road system and redistribution of
traffic by further construction (as was envisaged in both SAR) will certainly help. Continued increases in
the capacity and quality of public transport will also decelerate the rate of increase of demand. But demand
management will become necessary, starting with parking management and in the not too distant future,
some form of area pricing scheme within the ring road.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
With the exception of the Inner Ring Road, the facilities and equipment funded under the project were
designed and implemented by the SMG agency with corresponding operations and maintenance
responsibility. The Shanghai Viaduct and Bridge Maintenance Company was set up especially for the
operation and management of the IRR, the N-S viaduct and the Yanan Road viaduct. The Traffic and
Patrol Police General Brigade of the Shanghai public Security Bureau is responsible for traffic
management of the IRR viaducts and the ground level roads, as well as the various traffic management
schemes. The Shanghai Public Transport Holding Company owns the new two depots which it leases to
the operating companies. The Environmental Protection Bureau is responsible for the implementation and
further development of the MVECS.
- 12 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending.
The Bank perfonmance during preparation can be considered highly satisfactory. Both projects were
comprehensively prepared by highly experienced teams. SMTP I was identified in May 1988 and
appraised in October 1989. Work was interrupted by events in China in mid 1990, and so the appraisal
findings were updated in February 1991. The first project was approved by the Board in November 1991.
The second project was formally identified in July 1991 and appraised in February 1993. While a number
of team members were common to both projects, the task managers were different, due to circumstances
beyond management control.
The first project was prepared at a time when the Bank was just starting urban transport work in China,
and during a period when China was starting to embark on major reforms and to really open up to the rest
of the world. The economic, sector and technical work undertaken was thorough and comprehensive. For
the initial stages of a dialogue with a city these analyses perhaps attempted to cover too many sector issues.
The preparation of the second project used the same analyses. These were supplemented by technical
studies in transport modeling and TM supported by TA finded under SMTP I.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during supervision can be rated as satisfactory, although in terms of mission spacing,
irregular. There were three task managers, all specialists in urban transport. The first, who was the task
manager at appraisal of SMTP II, died in mid 1996. He was replaced quickly by the second task manager
who had participated in the appraisal of both projects. After two missions the second task manager could
no longer travel for medical reasons. The third task manager (who participated at the appraisal of SMTP
II) took over in late 1997. SMECC commented that communication with the Bank suffered during this
period, and problems were caused by lack of timely feedback. Mission spacing from late 1997 was
adequate to review progress on the outstanding activities, largely related to the traffic management.
No supervision plan was prepared for SMTP I.. A supervision plan was prepared for the SMTP II project
which called for 8 missions (two per year) starting in March 94. The Bank conducted 14 missions for the
SMTP-I and 15 missions for SMTP-II. This larger number of missions was called for by the duration of
the project which was longer than planned. The project supervision took a total of 130 staff-weeks which
appears to be reasonable compared to other similar projects in Asia. (The average for the East Asia
Region is 8 staff weeks/year and 12 staff weeks for an ICR. Adopting these averages would have resulted
in a total of 144 weeks of supervision).
The quality of the dialogue between the Bank staff and the Chinese Project staff, as well as the guidance
given by the Bank staff was well appreciated by the Chinese counterpart. However the changes of Bank
task manager during the year 1996-97, made communication and problem solving more difficult. This was
most evident for the TMS component which was not being implemented as fast nor as effectively as
planned.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Based on the above comments, the IDA/Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. Despite changes in task
managers, supervision was comprehensive in coverage and focused on achievement of development
objectives. The Bank was responsive to Borrower requests for changes in project components, although
- 13-



sometimes the response time was perhaps not as speedy as it should have been. Early advice was given to
the Borrower on the scope of the ICR, and the definition and measurement of performance indicators linked
to the objectives. The one failing was in the irregular spacing of supervision mnissions after the completion
of the IRR. It is felt that this irregularity had an adverse impact on the nature of the traffic management
schemes implemented.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrowers performance during preparation was highly satisfactory. SMTP I was the first project
SMG had undertaken with the Bank, at an early stage in the Bank dialogue with the Government of China.
Thus the Borrower was not only having to come to grips with Bank requirements, but more generally with
the details of the westem business model and western approach to policy formulation, planning, scheme
design and project management. The learning required was broadened and deepened with the increased
scope and complexity of SMTP II.
The Borrowers primary interest was in building the IRR by a given date, but this did not prevent
consideration and after discussion, acceptance of other components. The need for Bank review of designs
and discussion of design parameters was not clearly understood. There was an understandable reluctance
to have discussions that were meaningful to the Bank team on matters that had already been endorsed by
SMG. This meant that discussions on technical matters (such as for the IRR on the number of lanes or the
ramp locations) did not fully address concerns expressed by the Bank team on the design of project
sub-components. In the public transport components the SMG team was reluctant for the Bank team to
become to involved in reform at the start of the design of the reform measures.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government in this instance means the Shanghai Municipal Government (SMG), since the Government
of China had little involvement in the project, beyond on-lending the loan to SMG. The SMG Leading
Group was responsible for the overall direction of the project, including project implementation policy and
issues. However, once the IRR was completed, the leading group did not appear to have been much
involved. Despite its mandate, the leading group was not used to provide guidance to resolve the
continuing differences of view of different agencies within the traffic management component. This
suggests that the leading group did not see its role as being to take decisions on matters that involved
several agencies, or project management decisions that were outside the powers of the PIU.
Overall Rating is satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency performance was satisfactory. The same SMECC unit was responsible for the
preparation and implementation of both projects. This ensured that knowledge gained at each stage was
retained and expanded upon. It would have been rated as highly satisfactory but for a number of small dips
in performance, viz: intermittent quarterly reporting, and in later years, not sufficiently proactive
management of remaining funds to ensure they were all properly used. There was one incidence of
procurement not following Bank guidelines, due to staff being unfamiliar with them, but not sufficient for
misprocurement to be declared. SMECC was also not as proactive as it could have been in project
managing and in sending to the leading group for a decision matters deemed beyond its responsibility. The
performance in preparing the SMG contribution to the ICR went beyond highly satisfactory into the realms
of best practice. A detailed, insightful and well written 91 page document (plus annexes) was prepared. It
is unfortunate that Bank requirements do not permit more than a summary of the key sections to be
presented in Section 9.
- 14 -



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance is satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Lessons were learned at all stages of the project, and have been incorporated into the preparation of
subsequent Bank urban transport projects in China. These lessons have helped shape the recently prepared
Urunqi and Shijiazhuang projects. Clients who prepared these projects also visited Shanghai to learn for
themselves, and participated in the stakeholder workshop. The lessons cover the main project components,
as well as engineering design, construction and procurement, monitoring and evaluation, Bank/Borrower
interaction, the role of the Leading Group, and project management. They incorporate the key conclusions
of the workshop.
8.1    Road Network
(i)    Road space management and network planning. From the time of identification of SMTP I
through the appraisal of SMTP II, SMG focused heavily on the proposed major investments in road
infrastructure. The Bank team discussed at length and in depth the value of complementing the Ring Road
investment with traffic management, facilities for cyclists and pedestrians, and public transport. The Bank
team was concemed that the N-S and E-W (Yanan) viaducts would encourage car traffic into the central
area, within the IRR, overload the street network, and would be too destructive of the urban fabric and
unaffordable, and so argued against them. With hindsight, the Bank would probably have had greater
impact if it had accepted the basic SMG concept of a "ring and cross" viaduct network and then worked
with the city agencies to produce a more efficient network design and to integrate it with a more effective
traffic management strategy.
(ii)   Primary Road Capacity. Due to funding constraints and the amount of resettlement, the IRR
viaduct was proposed as a 2 x 2 lane road with no emergency lanes. With hindsight, this is not wide enough
for current requirements. Leaming from this, SMG built later projects (N-S viaduct and E-W Yanan
Viaduct) with 2 x 3 lanes. Assumptions about traffic growth, at appraisal, were deliberately conservative,
probably too conservative. The option of building a 2 x 3 lane IRR viaduct should have been given more
consideration. However, it can also be argued (as it was at appraisal) that the proposed Outer Ring Road
will relieve the IRR. Also, the rapid and efficient construction of a smaller road obviously brought some
benefits to the city compared to the costs and delays which would have been associated with the
construction of a larger facility.
(iii)   Better planning and design of roads. A better functional classification of roads is required and
road design standards need to be revised so that they are based on appropriate functional classifications.
Greater provision for pedestrians and cyclists should be made, with particular consideration for safety.
(iv)   Shanghai Central Area Network Now that the 3 E-W and 3 N-S arterial routes are built in the
central area within the ring road, there is a need to upgrade the rest of the network to provide a better grid,
while taking account of historic buildings. There is also the need to improve the connections between the
elevated road system and the ground level roads.
- 15-



8.2    Engineering Design, Construction and Procurement
(i)    Quality of basic engineering design. Because Shanghai was a new client, the Bank teams were
initially cautious about requiring engineering design reviews for the ring road. It quickly became apparent
that the Shanghai Design Institutes had the highway and structural engineering design expertise to prepare
the drawings and the technical parts of bidding documents to international standards. However, as
SMECC notes, it was the first time the Shanghai Institutes had designed a large elevated road. Because of
their lack of experience, and the tight construction schedule, there were some shortcomings in the design.
For example: rubber joints were adopted for the viaduct surface which are now damaged and create
difficulties for maintenance, emergency lanes were not provided and, drainage is not adequate during heavy
rainfall. In addition the monitoring equipment on the viaduct does only that, and does not control traffic
flow.
(ii)    Functional Design shortcomings. Functional design skills were not as advanced. The lack of
skills lacking negatively affected the location of ramps, and the design of the junctions under the ring road,
particularly where ramps were located. Some of these skill have been acquired during the course of the
project. SMECC notes that the additional ramps at Zhoujiazui Road and Jinshajiang Road were required
because of insufficient planning before construction. Also, some ramps are too close to ground level cross
streets. This results in serious weaving between the ends of the ramps and the ground level junctions.
(This problem has been resolved in part by clever use of traffic signal phases).
(iii)   Speed and quality of construction. As with engineering designs, because Shanghai was a new
client, the Bank teams were initially cautious when establishing the construction schedules for the ring
road, and the supervision arrangements to ensure construction quality. The speed and quality of
construction of the cable-stayed Nanpu bridge initially mitigated these concerns. Also, the speed of the
construction of the IRR in SMTP I demonstrated that once an agency determined a schedule, they could
adhere to it without sacrificing construction quality. The aesthetic quality of the structural finishes also
improved with successive sub-components.
(iv)   Construction schedule and cost increase. After appraisal, SMG set a goal of finishing the IRR
in 1994. In order to meet this objective, the design and construction times had to be reduced by SMECC
from the already tight schedules agreed with the Bank. The net result was cost increases of the order of
15%.
(v)    Adoption of market based competitive bidding. The implementation of the SMTP illustrated to
the SMG that market based methods can make a project more effective and efficient. The bidding process
was very beneficial and stimulated the pace of reform of related design and construction companies. A fair
and competitive construction market is emerging in Shanghai. Competitive bidding is now standard
practice on SMG contracts.
- 16 -



8.3    Traffic management
(i)    There is a need to integrate the institutions dealing with traffic engineering and to develop a
comprehensive approach to traffic management.
*   Advantage was not taken of the opportunity to develop innovative and appropriate design
measures for NMVs, but the concept of separating MV and NMV flows is now accepted.
Complete separation will take a long time.
*   The opportunity to develop bus priority measures was deferred because of the focus on road
infrastructure for MVs.
*   Coordination between the TMS and the new road infrastructure needs to be stronger (for
example, better design of the ground level junctions under the IRR; integration of IRR
monitoring equipment and ATC).
(ii)    There is a need for two discrete traffic management activities within a project. The first is
essentially a independent traffic engineering component, independent of any new infrastructure proposals.
This can be implemented from the start of the project and independently of new road construction so that
benefits are realized within a short time frame and proposals are not rendered obsolete. The second
activity should be integrated with the design of the new infrastructure components.
(Hii)   Traffic Impact Analyses (TIA) should complement the design of Traffic Management
Schemes. (TMS). TIA is required in addition to traffic management. The pace of development results in
the traffic management schemes being rapidly superseded by new infrastructure, new land uses, growing
traffic volumes and constantly changing traffic patterns.
(iv)   Financing traffic lights serves a purpose. Having a large identifiable investment in traffic signals
and ATC at the heart of TMS component was justifiable to focus attention on traffic management.
(v)    Loan conditions may be helpfuL The judicious use of more loan conditions may be worth
considering to ensure the timely implementation of traffic management schemes.
(vi)   Increasing the Bank's effectiveness. Bank staff need to present a very clear and consistent
picture of the type of traffic management package, and specific measures, that would be acceptable. This
was attempted in Shanghai, but the clarity eroded over the years.
8.4    Public Transport Reform.
(i)    Pace of reform. The project facilitated a great deal of reform, of pricing, and of the structure of
the sector. However the pace of reform is governed by local agencies and national political conditions.
Thus Bank efforts (including investments) should be directed towards assistance with the formulation and
implementation of reform.
(ii)    Private sector participation. Wholesale privatization of companies, cost based competitive
tendering for service supply, reducing labor surplus to benchmarked operational requirements, and major
private sector participation are not politically acceptable at the present time in China. Thus provision of
public transport is likely to remain a largely a public sector activity for the foreseeable future. The initial
thrust of Bank support should therefore be directed to the separation of the intrinsic public sector
responsibilities of service specification and planning, from the commercial supply functions, which are
likely to initially remain with the State Owned bus companies, but which can later be privatized.
- 17 -



(iii)   Use of foreign experience. Some foreign experience is relevant to the current reform programs in
China. The key is to adapt this experience to local conditions, and to acknowledge that the initial
conditions and stimulus for reform varies from place to place. This adaption requires knowledge sharing
and teamwork between foreign experts and staff of local agencies, and locally generated solutions to reform
issues.
(iv)   Reform takes time. The process to date in Shanghai has taken 10 years. This compares with 15
years for complete reform of the system in London, a city of similar population and bus fleet.
(v)    Modal Integration. Greater coordination of modes is still needed, particularly the integration of
rail and bus networks, with better interchanges between these modes.
8.5    Public transport priority:
(i)    Plan for Bus Priority. The project focused rightly on reform of STC (a government enterprise),
which is a key to sustainable development of the role of bus services. However, the priority given to the
MV in the road infrastructure translated into limited physical priority being given to buses. This in turn
may have been a factor in the reduction in the modal share of buses. Future projects should consider more
precise and realistic plans for public transport priority.
(ii)    Putting public transport first. This is the current SMG policy, but people do not know how to
put this policy into practice. SMG should clarify what this policy means so that bus companies can better
serve passengers and traffic management agencies will be encouraged to introduce bus lanes and signal
priorities favoring buses.
8.6    Transport Planning
(i)    Integrated Planning is critical. SMG recognizes that comprehensive transport planning in
advance of construction is critical for city transportation. Transport plans should not be ends unto
themselves, but should support economic development through integrated planning of transport and land
use. The emphasis should be on moving people and goods, not infrastructure development. Plans should
also be more closely related to the resources available.
(ii)    Modal Split forecasting. The overall number of daily trips grew more or less as anticipated.
However, the traffic on the new road infrastructure grew much faster than anticipated. The modal share of
car and motorcycle travel quadrupled between 1991 and 1998 from 3% to 12% of all trips. Over the same
period, the modal share of public transport, even with the addition of the metro, decreased significantly
from 26% in 1991 to 15% in 1998. The forecasts made in 1991 for the year 2000 were for 6% of all trips
in cars and taxis and 30% on public transport. This evolution towards a lower share of public transport in
favor of a bigger share of private means of transport, if it were to continue, could lead to a strong increase
in road congestion and a loss of productivity.
- 18 -



(Hii)   Bicycle usage. Contrary to the 1991 forecasts which showed NMV usage remaining stable at
33%, NMV usage grew to 42% by 1998. Walking as a mode of transport remained stable at 30% of all
trips. Coupled with the decline in public transport usage, this suggests that a clear choice is being made
between the use of public transport and the use of bicycles, with a preference for use of bicycles. This
trend needs to be researched, carefully modeled and the implications discussed. Bicycles will still be an
important travel mode for Shanghai residents for some time.
(iv)   Use of a probability approach for future economic evaluations of large investments in urban
transport infrastructure. The IRR viaduct proved to have insufficient capacity, and retrospectively it
appears that it would have been better to build a larger facility. The motorization rate was faster than
forecast. Assumptions at appraisal were deliberately conservative. To prevent under-design in the future,
economic analysis of large investment projects should utilize a probability approach, to determine the
sensitivity of values and assumptions to the proposed capacity and benefits.
8.7    Monitoring and Evaluation.
(i)    The project did not plan nor budget for any evaluation study, or the collection of data which might
have been used to evaluate the outcome of the project. The identification of key performance indicators,
within a logical framework, was not yet mainstreamed at the time of project preparation. The studies
undertaken for the preparation of the ICR partly filled this gap.
(ii)   SMECC noted that sufficient attention was not paid to data management. During the 10 year long
project implementation period, relevant data was kept separately by various units and staff. Since there
was not a central data system, it took a long time to pull together the information required for the ICR.
8.8    Bank/Borrower Interaction
(i)    Need for good communication. Communication is more than having good translators, although
that helps. Good communication also requires the Bank to gain an understanding and respect of the culture
and operating practices of the Borrower and implementing agencies. The key lesson in improving
c.ommunication of ideas, knowledge and experience is to include in the project team local technical
specialists who speak Chinese, and technical specialists with experience of China.
(ii)    Need for participation by all interested agencies. The experience in Shanghai is no different to
the Bank's experience in every other country. To develop a sustainable project requires the active
participation and ownership from all relevant institutions. Implementing agencies need to be fully involved
with the design of each project component. Agencies also need guidance on how to work in partnership
with intemational and local consultants for the transfer of knowledge and ownership of consultant
generated proposals.
(iii)   Need to strengthen Bank supervision. The Bank should have provided a higher level of
supervision to complement the large resources input to project preparation. This supervision has to be at
regular intervals and with a consistency of approach if it is to support the work of the local agencies.
8.9   Project Management
While project management was generally effective some improvements would have been possible. Most
obviously, project components were planned and implemented by the different agencies and there was only
- 19-



limited coordination and communications between them. Also, the domestic formalities for the approval of
all the sub-projects were managed by the relevant sector agencies over which the SMECC PIU had limited
control. In addition, limited technical personnel and unclear responsibilities restricted the overall ability of
SMECC to effectively manage the planning and implementation of sub-projects.
8.10   Leading Group (Project Steering Group)
(i)    The close attention of the municipal government was critical to the project's success. Continuous
input and support from SMG in terms of policy, human resources and finance provided a sound basis for
smooth preparation and implementation.
(ii)    A strong Leading Group, which is knowledgeable about the local transport situation and keen to
learn from the best international practice (through cooperation with the Bank and foreign consultants) is
critical for the smooth design and implementation of the project.
(iii)   As new projects are prepared, the Bank should try to ensure that the proposed institutional
arrangements given the Leading Group the authority to make decisions affecting the progress and design of
the project which are outside the limited role and responsibilities of the Project Office (i.e. decisions which
require inter-agency cooperation).
(iv)   For all future projects, the Leading Group should have greater responsibility for the setting and
implementation of transport planning and management policies.
8.11   Future Challenges (identified during the workshop).
(i)    Pace of Change. This makes planning particularly difficult, as the experience with the Ring Road
has shown. It makes accurate forecasts more important but also more difficult. Also, it highlights the need
for flexibility and continuous planning so that works are not rendered obsolete by increases in traffic. It
also underlines the need for a good strategic plan when trying to assess the value of individual projects.
(ii)    Project Investment Approval Procedures used in China are generally satisfactory and simpler
than Bank procedures. These Government procedures are being simplified even further, but more public
participation is required and is being introduced. There is also a need for better integration between the
activities of the municipal and districts governments.
(iii)   Environment and Sustainable Development. Sustainable development, environment and the
quality of life are now important policy issues in all cities in China. Environmental considerations (costs
and benefits) should therefore be given a higher profile in the evaluation of projects. However, there is a
need to raise public awareness of environmental issues. The choice of the most appropriate mechanisms to
reduce pollution from cars - emission control devices, tax policies, better control of certain types of
vehicles, better traffic management, travel demand management is a challenge in itself.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The implementing agency SMECC has written two sets of comments on behalf of the Shanghai Municipal
Government. Below is their paper entitled "Implementation and Assessment" presented at the ICR
Stakeholder Workshop by SMECC (with minor edits to reduce repetition of factual material presented
- 20 -



elsewhere in the report). A more comprehensive and detailed set of comments of some 90 pages (excluding
attachments) entitled "Implementation Completion Report" is available in the project files.
1.    GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The 90s on 20th century was a critical period for implementation of the national "Eighth and Ninth Five
Year Plan", for promotion of further reform and opening and for the changes of strategic position of
Shanghai. With the policy of developing Pudong from the Central Government in 1990, Shanghai
Municipal Government (SMG) made the decision to take this opportunity to develop both sides of the
Huangpu River. And Shanghai will be gradually built into the lead of Yangzi River valley and one of the
international metropolises of world economy, finance and trade. In order to realize the great target, SMG
decided to put a huge amount of investment to infrastructure construction so as to create favorable
surroundings for more investment home and abroad and good conditions for economic development of
Shanghai.
To support the economic reform in Shanghai, the World Bank based on investigations by local and foreign
experts and cooperation of SMG, confirmed as early as in the late 80s a program to assist Shanghai
Metropolitan Transport Project (SMTP).
1.1    Objectives
The Project was implemented in two stages, and was intended to help Shanghai
(a)   raise the economic productivity through the improvement of operation and economic benefit of the
urban transport system;
(b)    enhance the management capability of the public facilities through the improvement of the planning
and management of urban transport system.
1.2   Elements of the Project
a.    To build the inner ring road, one of the urban backbone transportation infrastructures in Shanghai,
so as to improve and mitigate the traffic pressure in central area of the city;
b.    Seeing from the angle of traffic engineering, traffic control measures and reducing hidden traffic
accidents, to improve traffic management and safety from central business district (CBD) to
central area of the city;
c.    To improve the operation of public transport by means of study on public transport reform and
investment to the construction of some stops and depots;
d.    To strengthen the capabilities of urban transport planning, management and road maintenance
institutions through providing consulting service of foreign experts and related equipment.
1.3    Duration of the Project
From 1991 to the closing date of December 31, 2000, the Project lasted ten years.
2.    PROJECT IMPLEMENrATION AND ASSESSMENT
During ten year's implementation of the Project, the foreign exchange in China changed from fixed rate to
floating rate under control after 1994 so as to meet the further reform and opening. The exchange rate of
RMB and US dollars was raised from $1 = Yuan 5.2 to $1 > Yuan 8.0, which resulted in a large remaining
- 21 -



sum of funds under SMTP from the SAR estimate. Since 1991, SM started to prepare new general urban
plan. And then comprehensive transport plans for Shanghai were in succession presented, which provided
new bases for all-round implementing the objectives and components of SMTP.
Facing the above mentioned changes, both Shanghai and the Bank agreed to make adjustment and
modification to the Project so as to better use the loan surplus on principle of keeping objectives in SAR
unchanged, enable the implementation of components under SMTP to reflect the strategy,
comprehensiveness and reality of new general planning and strengthen the objectives of SMTP.
The details are presented in the following paragraphs.
2.1 Inner Ring Road (IRR)
In the new Shanghai urban plan, IRR is one of three important ring roads in Shanghai (the other two ring
roads are Outer Ring and Suburb Ring Road). Circling the center of Pudong and Puxi, IRR goes through
nine districts including Yangpu, Hongkou, Zhabei, Putuo, Xuhui, Luwan, Huangpu (former Nanshi) and
Pudong New District, with the total length of 48 km. [RR covers Puxi section, Pudong section, Nanpu
Bridge and Yangpu Bridge, which is the first all-round implemented express artery in Shanghai.
Puxi section runs between Nanpu Bridge and Yangpu Bridge, with the total length of 29.2 km and
including 40 m wide ground road (for standard section) and 18 m wide elevated road (for standard section).
The elevated road is designed as two-way two-lane closed rapid road with the speed of 80 km/h. While the
ground road is of two-way two-lane MV with the design speed of 40 km/h and two-way one-lane NMV
road on both side. In addition, bus bay is provided for stops along the road. Four interchanges including
Caoxi Rd, West Yanan Rd, Gonghexin Rd and Luban Rd are provided along the road and 41 up and down
ramps are arranged for the main junctions.
The construction of all 29.2 km long elevated and ground road in Puxi is included in SMTP. The
implementation agency and Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is Shanghai Municipal Engineering
Construction Company (SMECC).
Based on a series of preparation, the first stage of IRR Puxi section under SMTP started in October 1991
and completed in December 1993. Stage 1, including 5.5 km long elevated road and ground road, opened
to the traffic after 26 months construction and made the social efficiency yield well in time. Stage 2,
covering 23.7 km elevated and ground road, started in February 1993 and finished at the beginning of
December 1994, which went through 22 months construction and was put into operation on December 7,
1994. The total construction duration of IRR is 38 months, with the good quality rate of 100% for Stage 1
and 93.3% for Stage 2 respectively, which expressed the organization capability and working efficiency in
large scale engineering construction in Shanghai..
The implementation of IRR has the following features:
a.    Construction management
Two-level management was adopted. IRR was listed as No. I Project by the government at that
time and the municipal engineering headquarter and 8 district sub-headquarters were set up. Under
the leadership of municipal engineering headquarter, district sub-headquarters were responsible for
land acquisition, demolition, resettlement, traffic organization during construction and coordination
of affected residents in various districts along the route of IRR. Such a measure ofjoint efforts
with individual responsibility was of great importance to speeding up the progress of construction,
- 22 -



creating good environment of construction, promoting the district development and strengthening
the idea of district's involvement in the project.
b.    Procurement
The implementation of works and procurement of main goods including bitumen, steel and
equipment was executed via International Competition Bidding (ICB) procedure and National
Competition Bidding (NCB) procedure in accordance with the Guide of Procurement specified by
the World Bank with the principle of open, fair and just. There are 65 contracts in total under
Stage 1 and 2, of which 23 are ICB including 14 civil works and 9 goods contracts, and 42 are
NCB covering 41 civil works and 1 goods contracts.
7 construction enterprises or joint venture between home and abroad with national first level
certificate implemented the construction of viaduct and ground road under IRR through ICB
bidding procedure. And 28 excellent medium-scale construction enterprises executed minor works
via NCB bidding. The involvement of excellent enterprises ensured the contracts to meet the
requirement of investment control, construction progress and quality specified in contracts.
c.    Construction supervision
In accordance with the international custom, SMECC appointed Engineer to the construction site,
which formed three-level site management of Employer (SMECC) -- Engineer -- Contractor. The
comprehensive and whole process management of the project was executed by means of progress,
quality and investment control and organization coordination.
d.    Quality control
Under the unified control of Engineer authorized by SMECC, a three-level management network
comprising contractor's self-control system, 10 public supervision companies selected through
bidding and municipal quality supervision station (Shanghai Municipal Engineering Quality
Supervision Station) carried out engineering quality supervision and evaluation. This network
could control the quality and ensure the project imnplemented well.
IRR has been operated for 6 years since the completion at the end of 1994, the social and economic effects
could be summarized as follows:
a.    The construction of IRR introduced an urban expressway model, which fits the transportation in
downtown area of Shanghai with high population density, tangled traffic and limited land for road.
And it plays a lead role in the future road construction of "E" printing type like (a Chinese
character used to describe the road net looking like a ring combined with a cross inside) elevated
expressway system in downtown area.
b.    Enhanced the traffic capacity. The traffic capacity of IRR after operation is 9,400 pcu/h
(two-way) of which elevated road is 6,100 pcu/h and ground road, 3,300 pculh respectively. While
the traffic capacity of original 4-lane inner ring road was only 2,280 pcu/h. That means the traffic
capacity increased by 3.12 times, or in the other word, the capacity of the current inner ring road
equals 4 originals approximately.
c.    The operation of IRR remitted transportation inside and outside the IRR, especially the central
area. SCCTPI simulated the traffic in 1995 and the result showed that the traffic on IRR elevated
road and South-North Viaduct was 1,254,000 vehicle-km and 294,000 vehicle-km respectively.
The traffic distribution is shown as follows.
- 23 -



Area                    Traffic (1000 vehicle kn)  Proportion (%)
Downtown area                    848.7                  54.8
Area outside the city center     203.8                  13.2
Pudong                             8.1                   0.5
Zhongshan road at ground         368.7                  23.8
Other                            118.7                   7.7
Total                           1,548.0                  100
As shown in the above table, the construction of elevated road enabled reducing the traffic on most
roads within IRR and part roads outside IRR. Traffic on the roads further away from viaducts
could be indirectly reduced because IRR would attract the traffic on adjacent roads, and the
adjacent road would attract the traffic on the roads adjacent to them. One by one, traffic of most
ground road could be diverted.
d.     The operation of IRR expedited the land exploitation along and in the vicinity of IRR. Some
488,000 m2 of buildings was demolished as 6,985 affected households and 841 units removed
during the construction of IRR. Replaced are modem architectures. The adjustment of Shanghai
Industry structure, the removal of lots factories causing serious pollution and the irnprovement of
old residential area concentrated with poor and dangerous houses in the vicinity of IRR provided
opportunities for land displacement and attracted real estate development. The fair trade street at
North Zhongshan Road of Putuo District, the outstanding Zhujiawan, Panjiawan and Tanziwan
tinpot residential areas, New South Bund of Nanshi District, Shanghai Stadium center of Xuhui
District are all the typical cases. The former old, shady and tattered face on both sides of IRR is
now replaced by new picture of modem commercial skyscrapers, office buildings, and high grade
apartment buildings.
e.    The investment of the construction of IRR and the use of loan is under good control, which could
be presented from the following data:
*     the final cost of IRR is about 7.8% more than the estimate, within the normal limit;
*     the rations between allocated and real used amount of loan is 97.7%.
The cost of IRR makes up 88.95% of the total cost of SMTP and the loan used for IRR accounts
for 85.87% of that for SMTP, which means that good use of funds and loan for IRR could make
the whole SMTP good status.
f.    The economic benefit of Puxi section of IRR is good. According to the special analysis three
economic indexes are as follows:
EIRR      over 27%, 18% and 20% more than that in SAR of SMTP I and I;
*     NPV        more than 0;
B/C       more than 1.92 under various discount rate (DR).
g.    Environmental impact of IRR
In accordance with the requirements specified in Technical Assistance (TA)-D5 the environmental
action plan under SMTP II, comparison of vehicle emission exhaust, air quality, noise and
vibration before and after construction of IRR was carried out through monitoring. The result
showed that the traffic environment worsened because the traffic volume increased by 4.8 to 8
- 24 -



times. However vehicle emission exhaust didn't increased in an arithmetic progression due to the
increase of speed and the change of vehicle type. The density of N02 and TSP increased but not
too high for CO. Noise level of 20 - 50% monitoring points in the daytime exceeded the standard
and the highest noise level was 4 1 1OdB(A) over the standard requirement. 80 - 90% monitoring
points at night exceeded the standard and highest noise level was 17 - 23dB(A) over the standard.
Vibration monitored at most points didn't exceed the standard requirement. Totally 14,654 m long
noise barrier was installed at the places where the residents are concentrated along IRR route,
which reduced the noise interference with the residents living in 5th and 6th story even though it is
not so ideal.
Shanghai Government has made decision to take the environment treatment as the important policy
and measure for construction during the further development of Shanghai so as to contribute to the
improvement of transport environment.
2.2    Traffic Management and Safety
Under this component 8 sub-projects were arranged. Shanghai Municipal Engineering Administration
Department (SMEAD) and Shanghai Traffic/Patrol Police General Brigade (TIP PGB) (the forner
Shanghai Public Security Bureau, SPSB) are the main executive agents.
The contents of this component include
a.    Construction of Non-Motor Vehicle (NMV) road and bridges in down town covering Central
Business District (CBD) area inside IRR in Puxi so as to reduce congestion on some roads caused
by conflicts between MV and NMV and increase the capacity of the transport network;
b.    Strengthening and improving traffic management by means of such measures as signal control,
channelization, signs and marking and establishment of 1.1 km two-way exclusive bus way along
the Waitan;
C.    Provision of 6 region traffic control centers and 1 road safety center.
The scope of this component covers a very large area. In addition, during 1990s Shanghai was in the peak
period of city improvement. The central area of the city was just like a big construction site. Affected by
land sale and lease, demolition of old buildings and construction of new buildings due to land replacement,
complicated ground and underground utilities renovation along urban road network, it was very difficult to
execute this component. The implementation period had to last for about 10 years from 1991 to 2000.
With the effort of the executive agents, the following works were completed.
a.    30.1 km long NMV road and 4 NMV bridges (Xinzha Rd Bridge will be completed in 2001), 11
km NMV road beneath the Project of Light Railway. The total length of newly established NMV
lane is now 41.1 km, of which 25.7 km is parallel to IRR, 6.9 km parallel to Nanjing Road, 1.4 km
parallel to East Yanan Road, 2.1 km parallel to South-North Viaduct and 2.7 km parallel to
Lujiabang Road. The NMV route improved MV/NMV mixed traffic situation, increased the
capacity of road network and accumulated experience for further NMV road construction.
According to the plan of Shanghai Municipal Engineering Administration Bureau, additional 25
km NMV road will be built by year 2005.
- 25 -



b.    Complete expansion of urban road traffic management facilities. At present, signal was provided
at 2000 junctions mainly in the center area of Shanghai, 3.2 time as much as 626 in 1991; 71,000
pieces of traffic signs, 3 times as that in 1991; 7300 km of markings, 4.3 times as in 1991 and
255,000 m2 of pedestrian crossing line, 1.8 times as in 1991. There are now 52 MV exclusive
route, 518 MV single route, 2 public transport exclusive route and 48 NMV route in central area
of Shanghai. The above mentioned traffic facilities and the construction of road during 90s
impelled the death and injury rate to be reduced by 60% and 43% (in person/l0,000 vehicles),
which presents that the traffic management of Shanghai has stepped up to a new stage.
c.    6 new district traffic control centers were set up under this component. With the original 2 centers,
now there are 8 control centers in total, which could control road traffic within IRR and provided
good bases for overall implementation of road traffic information management in Shanghai.
Recently a batch of electronic police is used for traffic management, which represents that the
urban transport management has gone into a modem process.
d.    One of the sub-project under this component, 1.1-km two-way exclusive busway along the Waitan
could not be implemented because a left-turn ramp of Yanan Rd Viaduct (East Section) Project
was arranged at the same location.
With the completion of three longitudinal and three horizontal backbone roads and the reconstruction of
other roads, the policy of public transit priority will be carried out in new "Five Year Plan" and 120 km
long bus-only route will be completed before 2005.
2.3    Support to Shanghai Public Transit (STC)
The result of technical assistance on Public Transit Reform Study led to the overall implementation of
public transit section reform during 1996 - 1998 by Shanghai Government. With the renovation in ticket
system, management system and operation system carried out and then the loss turned into profit, public
transit went to the way of market system. The comparison before and after renovation shows that the
public transit running vehicles increased by 45.5% and the running routes and the length of routes
increased by 15% and 32% respectively, which obviously represented the social and economic benefits.
Under the component of Public Transit Investment, two depots and one interchange were completed on time
with the efforts of Public Transit Company, which is beneficial to the operation management of the
Company.
2.4    Technical Assistance
Technical assistance includes foreign consultant service and equipment importation, which aims to
strengthen the capacity of institutions concerning Shanghai urban transportation planning, traffic
management and road maintenance as well as project management.
This component has 15 sub-projects. 7 organizations responsible for respective sub-projects are Shanghai
Municipal Engineering Construction Company, Shanghai Traffic/Patrol Public General Brigade, Shanghai
Urban Planning, Designing and Research Institute, Shanghai Municipal Engineering Administration
Division, Shanghai Comprehensive Transportation Planning and Research Institute, Shanghai Public
Transit Company and Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences. Implementation of this component
lasted about 10 years, from 1991 to 2000.
- 26 -



Outcomes from this component are summarized as follows:
a.    Provision of good foundation work for project identification and implementation. The preparation
of SMTP received grants from French, Australian, USA and Japan governments through World
Bank management. With the assistance of foreign consultants and local experts from Shanghai
Urban Planning, Designing and Research Institute, Shanghai Comprehensive Transportation
Planning and Research Institute, and some other designing institutes in Shanghai, eight studies on
Shanghai urban road and transportation system were conducted and framework for SMTP was
identified. It provided a sound basis for the overall implementation of SMTP.
b.    Consultation and training provided by the foreign consultants enabled the local staff to absorb
current advanced concept and technical approaches in term of transportation planning, traffic
management, project management, public bus company management and road maintenance and
etc. in the world. No doubt that the local counterparts and trainees will play an important role in
their own units in the future.
c.    The imported hardware and software have upgraded the transportation & traffic management
capabilities in Shanghai. In some areas, such as computerized management, traffic software
development, traffic analysis and traffic information collection, traffic monitoring and road
maintenance, Shanghai is in the leading position in China.
d.    Through implementation of SMTP I-C6, Shanghai Transit Company Support, some international
advanced concepts on public bus company management were learned by Shanghai Public Transit
Company. It provided useful ideas for the overall reform of Public Transit Sector started in 1996.
The reform put the company into a market-based development cycle and released the company
from huge deficit and the dependence on government subsidy.
e.    The implementation of SMTP II-D5, Environmental Action Plan, lasted for 4 years. The Plan
made an overall assessment on the traffic-related environment within Inner Ring Road in Shanghai.
Outcomes from this environmental action plan are summarized as follows.
(1)  Strengthened the concept of air pollution control. With the implementation of D5
sub-project, the environmental authorities recognized serious vehicle exhaust problem
in Shanghai, particularly in downtown area. Vehicle emission has become the major
contributor to air pollution in Shanghai. Enhancing the vehicle exhaust emission
control has been put on the priorities. In early 1998, a leading group for vehicle
exhaust control was established in Shanghai and carried out mitigation measures of
vehicle exhaust emission.
(2)  Improved the technical capacity of Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences
(SAES). Through the implementation of D5 and the cooperation among international
and local experts, an environmental GIS (geographic information system) and vehicle
exhaust model for Shanghai were developed. Now SAES can conduct some vehicle
pollution predictions and basic measures of prevention.
(3)  Speed up the vehicle-related pollution control in Shanghai. Based on the predicted
vehicle pollution trend in Shanghai, Shanghai Municipal Government adopted series
measures to fight against the vehicle exhaust emission. Since September 1998,
purification installations have been required for the using vehicles. In December 1998
and November 1999, Emission Standard for Light-Duty Vehicle and Emission
Standard for Using Vehicle was issued. And from 2000, some vehicle emission testing
centers were set up and some other measures were taken such as greenery, and etc.
- 27 -



f.    Improved the capacity of SCCTPI. With implementation of these projects, SCCTPI upgraded its
capacity in the fields of concept, measures, methods and research capacities of transportation
planning.
Most professional staff from SCCTPI participated overseas training and study tour. And all the
technicians joined the seminar and lectures presented by the foreign consultations in Shanghai.
These were very helpful for the unit to improve its capacities.
Meanwhile, equipment purchased under SMTP assisted SCCTPI to enter upon a new phase. For
instance, imported traffic analysis and simulation software provided scientific tools for
transportation planning and decision-making. Traffic information database has been extended and
upgraded. GIS and Oracle have improved the calculation and information interpretation, which
enabled Shanghai to setup a new database based on the traffic investigation in 1995. And it is also
useful to develop and update the transportation planning model.
All these areas have upgraded SCCTPI in the field of urban transportation planning.
g.    Shanghai Traffic/Patrol Police General Brigade, the former Traffic Management Division of
Shanghai Public Security Bureau, is the authority responsible for traffic management in Shanghai.
Its new institutional structure actually has been initiated from SMTP, which increased policemen
from 4,346 in 1991 to 11,023 in 1999. SMTP provided the key persons in the unit an opportunity
to learn the advanced traffic management concept through technical training and study tour.
Traffic management in Shanghai has been improved and upgraded.
h.    Enhanced the capacity of Shanghai Municipal Engineering Administration Division (SMEAD), the
unit responsible for urban road maintenance in Shanghai.
With the technical assistance of SMTP I-C7 (a), Road Maintenance Monitoring Equipment, and
SMTP 11-D4, Pavement Management System Development, SMEAD set up a GIS for City
Infrastructure Management and the construction management system in 1999 and 2000
respectively, which provided a sound basis for municipal engineering computerized management.
And the road maintenance and monitoring equipment improved the road maintenance in Shanghai.
The above mentioned results led SMEAD to transform from traditional experienced type to modem
scientific and technologic type, which made the road comprehensive management to achieve
advance level in China.
3.    GENERAL ASSESSMENT
3.1    Completely Fulfillment of Project Components and Objectives
There are totally 28 sub-projects under SMTP I and II. The composition of the project covers the
construction of key points, lines and areas, and hardware and software as well, which is a comprehensive
project contributing greatly to the development of Shanghai urban transportation and social economy.
With ten-year implementation, all components under the project have completed and put into normal
operation except some sub-projects such as Xinzha Rd Bridge.
The total investment of SMTP is USD 648,000,000, of which the fund financed by the Bank is
217,000,000 accounting for 32.4% and the amount collected by Shanghai is 438,000,000 making up
67.6%. This is in compliance with the expectation of SMTP.
- 28 -



The result of the project achieved the objective and will continuously make its social and economic benefits
yield well.
3.2    Good Performance of both Shanghai and the Bank during the Implementation of the Project
SMTP was implemented during 90s of the 20th century. At that time Shanghai was in face of the
commencement of implementation of new urban general planning and the change of foreign exchange in
China from fixed rate to floating rate under control. Both Shanghai and the Bank agreed to make
adjustment and modification to the Project so as to enable the objectives of SMTP according with the new
strategy of Shanghai urban development.
The reason for the success of SMTP is because that Shanghai Government made overall arrangement for
the organization, staff disposition, implementation, financing, supervision, loan paying of the project and
for the macro-planning and policy implementation of the government, which created favorable, necessary
and feasible conditions for the completion of SMTP. On the other side, the staff and experts of the World
Bank Supervision Mission visited Shanghai two times per year during ten-year implementation of the
project. They made site visit to understand situations and problems. And then they discussed with local
staff, solved problem and gave full play to their guidance and supervision. The mutual understanding,
linking up and cooperation ensured smoothly completion of the project.
3.3   Implementation of the Project introduced New Concept of Urban Transportation of International
Modem Cities
With ten-year mutual practice and cooperation, the Bank not only financed a lot of effective transport
engineering project, but also introduced a complete set of intemational ideology of working procedure and
scientific management. Local officials and technicians gained advanced concept of urban transportation,
which enabled the project to be carried out at the intemational level and had the continuous development
potentialities. For instance, all contracts under the project were implemented through open, fair and just
tendering. The local staff realized that not only the construction of the project could benefit from the
practice of such market mechanism but also the reform process of institutions concerning construction,
design and contractor were promoted by the practice. The project started overall prosperity of construction
market system in Shanghai. Another example is that the introduction of scientific management concept and
measures initiated a good start for the institutions of planning, traffic management and road maintenance
turning from traditional experiential to modern scientific type and enabled the management capability of
Shanghai Govemnment in this field a qualitative leaps.
3.4    Contributions to Promotion of Shanghai Urban Transport Development
a.    The implementation of SMTP was a perfect start for realizing the target of putting urban
infrastructure construction in the first place in the economic development of Shanghai. In
accordance with the statistics, the investment of urban transportation in Shanghai until the end of
1999 is about USD 6,570,000,000 and the investment of SMTP is USD 650,000,000 (in current
exchange rate of USD$1=RMB8.3), making up 9.8% of the above mentioned amount, which
presents SMTP's important contribution.
- 29 -



b.    The construction of Inner Ring Road under SMTP practiced a new experience of urban
expressway suitable for Shanghai central area traffic, which led to the construction of the later
South-North Viaduct and Yanan Rd Viaduct. Then the urban viaduct system shaped as "the ring
with the cross inside" like "E' in Chinese was produced, which plays an important part in
expanding the traffic volume and improving the transport conditions in Shanghai.
C.    During 90s, not only '*" shaped viaduct system was formed, but also a serious transportation
works were completed, such as urban express artery road network composed of three longitudinal
and three horizontal backbone roads, the rail transport network covering No 1, No 2 and Mingzhu
Line shaped as "cross" plus "west half ring" with the total length of 65 km and large passenger
volume, and some bridges crossing Huangpu River. All these represent that the stereo transport
networks in Shanghai centers area has been formed in embryo and needs correspondingly
higher-level traffic management. With the completion of traffic management facilities and the
implementation of technical assistance under SMTP, both concept and facilities of Shanghai urban
transport management has become more modemization. The result of implementation of traffic
management shows that the traffic speed on urban road was increased from 10 - 15 km/h in 1991
to 20 km/h in 1997 and 25 - 30 km/h in 1999 respectively. The death and injury rate was
decreased by 60% and 43% in 1999 compared with that in 1991 respectively.
d.    With the implementation of technical assistance under SMTP, the capability of relevant institutions
such as urban transport planning, traffic management, road maintenance and environmental
research, etc. was strengthened.
3.5    A Helping Hand lent to Shanghai Economic Development in the 90s
Just as the whole country during 90s, Shanghai experienced reform and opening, and the transition from
planning economic system to social market economic system. GDP of Shanghai continuously increased in
two digits and reached RMB 455,100,000,000 at the end of 2000, 5.1 times as that in 1991. And
GDP/person of Shanghai was USD 4,180, 1.82 times as 2,300 in 1995. Shanghai has gone from
well-to-do comfortable level into middle development level. Such achievement is because that during 90s
Shanghai Government did three important practical matters: 1) large scale urban infrastructure
construction formed basically general form-work with central urban functions; 2) strategically adjustment
of industrial structure formed basically new industrial structure suitable for further urban development; 3)
large productivity layout adjustment formed new production form-work suitable for new productivity
form-work for continuous development. The above mentioned three form-works provide a new and higher
starting development point for Shanghai in new century, which means that the comprehensive competitive
capacity of Shanghai should be strengthened when the economic structure is optimized.
The implementation of SMTP was included in the first important matter, which directly helped Shanghai
economic development during 90s.
However there is a shortage in the implementation of SMTP. An insufficient prediction of urban vehicle
possession volume (the forecast for vehicle possession of 2000 at the beginning of 1991 is 400,000, and the
actual number in 1999 reached 706,000) caused insufficient lane arrangement for Inner Ring Road (4 lanes
on viaduct and 6 lanes on ground road). After several year operations, a lot of sections approached or
exceeded the design traffic capacity, which caused congestion at the peak hours. Such experiences were
learnt by the later projects such as South-North Viaduct and Yanan Rd Viaduct.
- 30 -



In order to mitigate the congestion on Inner Ring Road, Shanghai Government considered the following
measures:
a.    Speed up the construction of Outer Ring Road Project and improve the construction of road
network between Inner and Outer Ring Road. For instance, to speed up the construction of
auxiliary ring road and upgrade the standard; widen and to open the surrounding roads such as
Guangling Rd - Lingshi Rd - Daduhe Rd ~ Hongcao Rd so as to increase the road density outside
Inner Ring Road and release the traffic pressure at the north section and west section of IRR.
b.    It is planned to divert the NMV on ground road beneath Inner Ring Road and to change it into MV
exclusive road. So that the mixed MV and NMV at the junction of ground road could be avoided,
MV capacity increased and the traffic volume on viaduct reduced by 4%.
c.    The saturation level on Inner Ring Road from Guangzhong Rd to South-North Viaduct has been
over 1.20 and the congestion on the up ramp of Guangzhong Rd is serious. It is considered to
reconstruct and widen Shuidian Rd and Liuying Rd. Then by means of traffic management
measures such as controlling the traffic volume on up ramp at the peak hours, the traffic flow of up
ramp of Guangzhong Rd could go to South-North Viaduct via Guangzhong Rd and Liuying Rd.
And the traffic flow of Dabaishu could be led to South-North Viaduct through Shuidian Rd and
Liuying Rd. It is expected that if the above mentioned measures could be implemented the traffic
volume on Inner Ring Road viaduct from Guangzhong Rd to South-North Viaduct could be
reduced by 12%, which is an obvious mitigation.
d.    Adjust and control the traffic volume by strengthening monitoring. Because of lack of experience,
the fumctions of original monitoring equipment for Inner Ring Road are not sufficient. With the
operation of "EV"shaped elevated road system in the city center, it is necessary to establish a traffic
monitoring network for whole elevated road system, which is under the stage of program study.
(b) Cofinanciers:
None
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector).
None.
10. Additional Information
None.
- 31 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Increased capadty:
1 (a) road capacity (in pcu's per hour):
IRR Viaduct                            2 x 3050                                2 x 3050
IRR at grade                                                                   2x 1650
1 (b) bus fleet of the Shanghai Transit  6600 (in 1991)                        16 900 (in 1999)
2 Reduced congestion:                  80 Km/h nominal speed                   42 to 75 Km/h
travel speed during peak hours
for the project investments:
(a) IRR viaduct
3. improved efficiency
3 (a) motorized traffic volume: average hourly
traffic during peak period (7AM-7PM)
IRR viaduct                            Index = 100                             Index = 181 to 285
IRR at grade                           Index= 100                              Index= 118to 945
3 (b) improvement to bus operation:
ST bus ridership volume                                                        -63% (1991-96);
+8% per year (1 996-98)
Farebox ratio                          68% (in 1992)
3(c) Daily trips                       31 070 000                              28 260 000
3 (d) Modal split:
pedestrian                             30%                                     31%
NMV                                    34%                                     42%
public transit                         30%                                     15%
cars and motorcydes                    6%                                      12%
Projected indicators were retrofitted
- 32 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected In last PSR                 ActuallLatest Estimate
Selected Physical Output Indicators
Inner-Ring Road                       29.367 km                             30.95 km
Stage l: North-westem Secion
(Panwanli-Hutai Rd)                   5.470 km                              7.40 km
Stage Il: North-eastem Section (Hutai
Rd-Yangpu Bridge)                     10.473 km                              10.13 km
South-westem Section (Nanpu
Bridge-Panwangli)                     13.429 km
Ground Rd of the Elevated Road        29.136 km                              13.42 km
Ramps (Number)                        35                                    41
Interchanges                          ?                                     4
Timely Implementation
SMTP I
A. Mapr Arterial Road                 1991-1994                              1991-1993; Excludes Contract 2.7;
Zhoujiazui & Jinshajiang Rd Ramps added
later
B. Traffic Management Component
B1 Non-motorvehide Roads            1991-1996                              1991-1998; delayed
B2 CBD Traffic Management            1991-1996                             1991-1996
B3 NSC Network                      1991-1993                              1993; 1.1 km busway dropped
B4 3rd Control Room                 Newly added                            1992-1994
C. Technical Assistance and Training
C1 Zhongshan IRR Supervision and Projed  1991-1995                           1991-1994; ahead of schedule
Management
C2 Traffic Management                 1991-1993                              1991-1994
C3 Supportb SCCTPI                    1991-1994                              1992-1995
C4 Identification of Investment priorities &    1991-1993                    1992-1995
C5 Preliminary Feasibility Study      1991-1993                              1992-1995
C6 Support to STC                     1993-1993                              1993-1994
C7 Equipment Procurement
(a) Road Maintenance Monitoring      1992                                  1994-1996
Equipment
(b) Project Management Computer      1992                                   1992
(c) Transport Analysis Computer      1992                                  1992
(d) Training Safety Monitoring Equipment  1992                             early 1993
(e) Traffic Data Collection Vehicles with    Newly added                    1994-1999
Equipment and Software
(f) Transportation Information center  Newly added                         1995-1997
SMTP II
A. Inner Ring Road                    1993-1997                              1993-1995; open to traffic Dec. 1994
B. Traffic Management and Safety
B1 Area Traffic Control               1994-1996                             1994-1998
B2 Road safety Research Center        1994-1995                             1994-1997
B3 Traffic Management Program Works   1994-1997                             1998-2000
84 6th, 7th and 8th Control Room      Added                                 1998-2000
C Pubic Transport Investments
Cl Caobao Depot                       1994-1996                              1995-2000
C2 Road Safety Research Center        1994-1997                             1997-2000
C3 Caoxi Interchange                  1994-1996                             1995-1996
- 33 -



D. Technical Assistarce
Dl Project Management Support        1994-1995                             1994-1995
D2 Traffic Management Support        1994-1996                             1996-1998
D3 Transport Planning Suppodt        1994                                  1997-1998
D4 Pavement Management Design        1994                                  1994-1996
D5 Environmental Action Plan Support  1994-1997                            1994-1998
D6 Traffic Police Training           Newly added                           1995-1996
D7 Training for PIU Staff             Newly added                          2000
D8 Consultant Service for Implementation   Newly added                     2000
Report
End of project
-34 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million    US$ million
A. Inner-Ring Roads (Stage 2)                     487.20         524.65             96
B. Traffic management and safety                   34.00          25.29             74
C. Public transport                                29.00          30.44            105
D. Technical assistance                             1.10            1.66           151
Total Baseline Cost                               551.30         582.04
Physical Contingencies                            34.50           0.00
Price Contingencies                               71.30           0.00
Total Project Costs           657.10         582.04
Total Financing Required           657.10          582.04
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB                                   N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCB         Other2
1. Works                   231.50        47.00         11.20        38.80       328.50
(86.90)      (17.60)       (4.20)       (0.00)      (108.70)
2. Goods                    34.10         1.80         5.40         17.40        58.70
(34.10)      (1.40)       (4.70)        (0.00)      (40.20)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         0.00         34.80        34.80
Engineering and             (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
administration
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         1.10         0.00         1.10
Consultants and Training    (0.00)       (0.00)       (1. 10)      (0.00)       (1. 10)
5. Miscellaneous-Land        0.00         0.00         0.00        232.10       232.10
acquisition and             (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Resettlement
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                    265.60        48.80        17.70        323.10       655.20
(121.00)     (19.00)      (10.00)       (0.00)      (150.00)
- 35 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category       iCe              NNB           Other.B.F                   Total Cost
1. Works                        151.57          52.27          0.00          94.41         298.25
(63.66)        (27.70)        (0.00)         (0.89)        (92.25)
2. Goods                        29.95           1.86           0.00          21.85          53.66
(29.95)        (1.86)         (0.00)         (21.85)       (53.66)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           0.00          24.49          24.49
Engineering and                 (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
administration
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           1.66           0.00           1.66
Consultants and Training        (0.00)         (0.00)         (1.66)         (0.00)         (1.66)
5. Miscellaneous-Land            0.00           0.00           0.00          192.33        192.33
acquisition and                 (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Resettlement
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           11.66         11.66
(0.00)         (0.00) 0.9                   (0.00)         0.00)
Total                        181.52          54.13          1.66          344.74        582.05
(93.61)        (29.56)        (1.66)         (22.74)      (147.57)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Comoen                   praisal Estimate            Actual/atest Estimate     ___              __
Bank      Govt.     CoF.       Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
A. Inner-Ring Roads      133.80    440.80      0.00     123.23     401.41     0.00     92.1   91.1   0.0
(Stage 2)
B. Traffic management and    6.50   38.40      0.00      11.34     13.95      0.00    174.5  36.3   0.0
safety
C. Public transport       8.60      27.90     0.00       11.33     19.12      0.00    131.7  68.5   0.0
Investments
D. Technical assistance   1.10      0.00      0.00       1.66       1.66      0.00    150.9   0.0    0.0
Total Project Cost       150.00    507.10     0.00      147.58     434.47     0.00     98.4   85.7   0.0
The total actual cost adds up US$582.05 million.
- 36 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL EVALUATIONS
Introductions
1.    The project economic analyses were re-evaluated by the Borrower with assistance from the Bank
team. As at appraisal, the economic analysis focused on the Inner Ring Road, which comprised 90% of
project costs and financing. A single re-evaluation was undertaken covering both Stages of the Ring Road.
The reevaluation was undertaken using the same standard methodology adopted during both appraisals.
2.     The benefits from the ring road were estimated as the savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC) and
passenger time costs compared to the situation without the project. The major benefit streams include
savings:
(a) for the traffic originally on the IRR
(b) for the increase in traffic on the IRR
(c) for traffic on the central area road network within the ring road
(d) for traffic on other parts of the network, outside the ring road
In the economic evaluation undertaken at appraisal, items (c) and (d) were stated as benefits, but could not
be calculated as the traffic model at the time was not able to produce robust enough estimates of speeds and
flows.
3-.    The key assumptions and inputs made remained the same as at the appraisals, with these
exceptions:
(a) capital investment costs were revised to reflect "as built" costs
(b) maintenance costs were based on actual maintenance expenditures during the initial years of operation
(c) the actual construction periods were used (3 years instead of four)
Capital costs were around 21% greater than the appraisal estimates, while the actual construction period
was 3 years, instead of 4 years assumed at appraisal.
Highway Corridor Traffic
4.     Stage 1 of the elevated Inner Ring Road (funded under SMTP I) was opened to traffic in December
1993 and Stage 2 (funded under SMTP II) in December 1994. The table below provides a comparison of
the traffic volumes before and after the elevated road construction.
- 37 -



Comparison of Traffic Volume
Before and After Viaduct Construction
Elevated Ring Road Daily Traffic Volume                    Ground Road Daily Traffic Volume before the
excluding ground road traffic                              elevated road was built
(September 1, 1996)                                        (January 30, 1991)
Cross-section              Outbound   Inbound   Total      Cross-section              Outbound   Inbound   Total
Yangpu Bridge-Hejian Rd    21,000     21,000    4200       Zhoujiazui-Songbuajiang Rd  4255       4083      8338
Hejian-Zhoujiazui Rd       17300      18450      35750     Songhuajiang-Wujiaochang   4118        3937      8055
Rd
Zhoujiazui-Songhuajiang Rd   10500     13569     24068     Wujiaochang-Dabaishu Rd    5957        1326119     218
Songhuajiang-Siping Rd     18497      8760       27257     Dabaishu-Guangzhong Rd    8301         1045618     757
Siping-Zhongshanbeiyi Rd   18497      23148      41645     Guangzhong-Xibaoxing Rd   9845         9805      19650
Zhongshanbeiyi-            30232      30539      60771     Xibaoxing-Gonghexin Rd     10930       1064821     578
Guangzhong Rd
Gaungzhong-Hetian Rd       45577      44897      90474     Gonghexin-Hutai Rd         11489       1144122     930
Hetian- Gonghexin Rd       40719      44897      85616     Hutai-Wuning Rd            9956        9070       19026
Gonghexin Hutai Rd         46444      43989      90433     Wunin -Wu i Rd             10626       1026920     895
Hutai-Wuning Rd            40112      34427      80900     Wuyi-Yan'an Rd             10371       9740      20111
Wuning-Wuyi Rd             34639      29450      64089     Yan'an-Honggiao Rd         11318       1067221     990
Wuvi-Yan'an Rd             17829      12516      30345     Hong iao-Wuzhon Rd         9826        9186       19012
Yan'an-Xinhua Rd           17829      12516      30345     Wuzhong-Caoxi Rd           8264        7857      16121
Xinhua-WuzhongRd           32421      31140      63561     Caoxi-Tianyuegiao Rd       7418        1004717     465
Wuzhong-Caoxi Rd           40933      30795      78367     Tianyuegiao-Wanping Rd     7927        8916       16843
Caoxi-Tianyuqiao Wanping    36497     30642      67139     Wanping-Dapu Rd            6038        6986       13024
Rd                                                                                                _ _ _
Tianyuegiao-Wanping Rd     29201      24490      60843     Dapu-Luban Rd              3469        4266      7735
Wanping-Ruijin Rd          41491      40105      81596     Luban-Xinzhaozhou Rd       3220        3455      6675
Ruijin-Luban Rd            33767      32352      66119
Luban Guohuo Rd            29149      26613      63756
Guohuo-Nanpu Bridge        16819       15613     32432
Benefits:
5.       The differences in traffic counts on the elevated Ring Road (September 1996) and Ground road
(January 1991) indicate strong growth of traffic. Thus, traffic growth expectation has significantly been
met. In fact, the traffic growth on the IRR was even higher than anticipated. The rapid increase in traffic
volume over the viaduct led to traffic saturation thereby limiting the potential speed gain. Overall, the
construction of the Inner Ring Road system has not only attracted traffic, it has effectively improved the
distribution of traffic, reduced a major bottleneck, made possible high speed travel and reduced travel time.
This increase in traffic capacity reduced congestion in the rest of the network. However, the rapid increase
in traffic volume relative to the enlarged road capacity led to a smaller speed increase than expected.
Overall Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
6.       A post construction economic appraisal of the elevated system was undertaken. The principal
benefits included: savings in vehicle operating cost, reduction in vehicle-kilometer, passenger time, and
saving in travel time due to reduction in congestion. The Economic Intemal Rate of Return (EIRR)
estimated to be 27.6% taking both Stages together. At appraisal, the EIRR estimates for the Inner Ring
Road (SAR, STMP I & II) was 18% and for Stage II was 15% respectively. Adjusting for the increase in
IRR costs, these EIRR become 16.5% and 14% respectively. The overall post-construction EIRR estimate
at ICR for the Inner Ring Road system (Stage I and Stage II combined) at 27.6% compares favorably with
the appraisal estimates in SMTP I & II.
- 38 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)      Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count             Specialty                        Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
07/12/91                      5   Transport Specialist (2), Urban
Transport Specialist (2),
Municipal Engineer.
11/09/91                      6   Transport Specialist (2), Urban
Transport Specialist (2),
Municipal Engineer, Urban
Transport Modeling Specialist
03/14/92                      6   Urban Transport Specialist (2),
Traffic Engineer, Highway
Engineer, Urban Transport
Modeling Specialist, Division
Chief
08/14/92                     10   Transport Specialist, Urban
Transport Specialist,
Resettlement Specialist, , Traffic
Engineer, Highway Engineer,
Urban Transport Modeling
Specialist, Transport Economist,
Environmentalist, Public
Transport specialist, Division
Chief.
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/28/92
03/20/93                      9   Transport Specialist, TA &
Reform Specialist, Traffic
Management Specialist, Highway
Engineer, Public Transport
Specialist, Environmentalist,
Transport Economist,
Procurement Specialist,
Resettlement
Supervision
12/01/93                      3   Transport Specialist, Traffic         HS             HS
Management, Highway
Engineer
04/09/94                       1   Resettlement Specialist
07/30/94                       3   Transport Specialist, Traffic        HS             HS
Engineer, Public Transport
Specialist
04/08/95                       3   Transport Specialist, Traffic        HS              S
Engineer, Civil Engineer
12/29/95                      3   Transport Specialist, Traffic         HS             S
Engineer, Transport Economist
- 39 -



10/17/96                       4   Urban Transport Specialist,
Operation Officer,
Environmentalist, Operation
Officer
03/21/97                            (form 590 says 18 month since         S              S
last mission)
07/11/97                       2   Urban Transport Specialist,
Operations Officer
11/25/97                       3   Urban transport specialist,            S              S
Operations Officer, Resettlement
Specialist
05/14/98                       2   Urban Transport Specialist,            S              S
Procurement Officer
01/28/99                            Urban Transport Specialist (2),       S              S
Procurement Specialist, Traffic
Engineer
08/21/99                       2   Urban Transport Specialist (2)
02/29/00                       1   Urban Transport Specialist             S              S
07/21/00                       1   Urban Transport Specialist
09/06/00                       1   Traffic Engineer
ICR
09/08/00                       1    Urban Transport Specialist
(b) StaffJ
Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 131.6                          383.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                       49.2                          154.8
Supervision                                 49.9                          159.1
ICR
Total__                            _  _ _  _ _  _  _  _  _
- 40 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                          O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Physical                                 * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
N Financial                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development                0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
F Environmental                            O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
M Public sector management                 0 H  * SU0M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 41 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
CJ Lending                                           *HSOS  Ou OHU
D Supervision                                        OHS OS  Ou   OHU
0 Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
CJ Preparation                                       OHS Os   O u  O HU
LI Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
LI Implementation agency performance                 OHS   S s  O u  O HU
LI Overall                                           OHS OS   O U   O HU
- 42 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The World Bank, Shanghai Metropolitan Transport Project, Staff Appraisal Report (No. 8465--CHA),
August 12, 1991.
The World Bank, Second Shanghai Metropolitan Transport Project, Staff Appraisal Report (No.
11985-CHA), September 10, 1993.
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences, Environmental Reviewing Statementfor Shanghai Inner
Ring Road Project, November 1998.
Shanghai City Comprehensive Transport Planning Institute, Transportation Development Impacts of
Shanghai City (Modified Version) Task No. 97-31-30, July 1999.
Corey Wong, Analysis of the ZhongShan Inner-Ring Road Construction, September 6, 1999.
Andre Puong, Urban Travel Patterns and Traffic Conditions in Shanghai City, September 7, 2000.
Tongji University, School of Economy and Management, Post-Appraisal of Economic and Social Benefits
for Shanghai Municipal Elevated Road System of Inner Ring Road (Abstract version), November, 2000.
Shanghai Municipal Engineering Construction Company, Shanghai Metropolitan Transport Project,
Project Implementation Unit, Implementation Completion Report (ICR), December 2000.
Shanghai, Shanghai Metropolitan Transport Project (SMTP I & II) Implementation Completion Review
(ICR) Workshop Papers, April 2001.
The World Bank, Shanghai Metropolitan Transport Project (SMTP I & fI) Implementation Completion
Review (ICR) Workshop Papers, April 2001.
- 43 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
The beneficiaries of the project were the residents of Shanghai - as pedestrians, cyclists, public transport
passengers and motorists, transport operators and business in general. The projects were undertaken at a
time of rapid change in Shanghai, and in parallel with other investments and transport improvements being
made by SMG without support from the World Bank. Under these circumstances, it was felt that a
beneficiary survey would not have yielded useful or meaningful results for this report. Instead, greater
effort was put into the Stakeholder Workshop, as described in Annex 9.
- 44 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
The Stakeholder Workshop was held from April 25 to 27, 2001. Participants at the workshop included
representatives from the following Shanghai Government Agencies:
*  Planning Commission, Construction Commission;
*  Audit Bureau, Environment Bureau, Finance Bureau, Municipal Engineering Administration Bureau,
Planning Bureau, Public Security Bureau, Transport Bureau;
*  City Comprehensive Transport Planning Institute, Municipal Engineering Design Institute, Municipal
Engineering Research Institute, Urban Construction Design Institute, Planning Institute;
*  City Investment Co., Public Transport Holding Co., Viaduct Maintenance Co., Bashi Taxi Co., Dazhong
Taxi Co., Jinjiang Taxi Co., Qiangsheng Taxi Co.;
*  Academy of Environmental Sciences, Customs, Traffic/Patrol Police General Brigade;
*  Highway Department, Municipal Engineering Administration Department;
*  Shanghai Metropolitan Transport Projects - Project Implementation Unit;
Participants also attended from the cities of Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Shijiazhuang, and Wuhan, as well as
Liaoning Province, all of which have Bank supported urban transport projects.
The workshop agenda included a site visits, papers on the ICR and topics related to the objectives and
scope of the projects, and group discussions, as follows:
April 25
Morning - Site Visit to the Inner Ring Road (IRR), Hongku District Area Traffic Control Room, NMV
Route parallel to IRR, selected junction channelizations and the Caobao Bus Depot.
Afternoon - Visit to the Shanghai Urban Planning Exhibition
April 26             Presentation of Papers, including question and answer sessions.
Session 1     Opening remarks from Shanghai and the Bank
Session 2     Summary of ICR report by Shanghai
Session 3     Summary of ICR report by the Bank
Session 4     Shanghai Urban Transport Development - past 10 years & future 20 years (Paper by
Shanghai)
Session 6     Reform of the Public Transport System in Shanghai (Paper by Shanghai)
Session 5     Shanghai Looking at the World - Experiences of urban transport development planning
and investment in other countries (Paper by the Bank.)
Session 7     Putting People First (Paper by the Bank)
April 27      Working Group Discussions
For the discussions on the ICR and the other papers, participants divided into two groups. The first group
addressed "macro" issues relating to overall policy, planning and investments. Discussion in this group
was led the Assistant Chief Engineer of the Shanghai City Planming Administration Bureau. The second
group addressed "micro" issues of traffic management, public transport and urban road design. Discussion
- 45 -



in this group was led by the Chief of the Traffic Facilities Department of the Traffic Police Patrol/General
Brigade of the Shanghai Public Security Bureau.
Key Conclusions from the "Macro" - Planning, Policy and Investment - Working Group
Discussions
1.    Transport Planning and Policy.
* Transport plans should not be ends unto themselves, but should support economic development through
integrated planning of transport and land use.
* The emphasis should be on moving people and goods, not infrastructure development.
*  Sustainable Development and the environment/quality of life are now important factors.
* Greater coordination of different modes is needed, particularly the integration of rail with other modes
* Planning should be related to the resources available.
2.    Development of the Transport Network
* Better classification of the function of roads is needed - i.e. functional road hierarchy and more
provision for walking and NMV.
- Better integration of rail and bus networks, with use of rail + bus for longer trips and walk/bicycle for
short trips
- Cycling to be encouraged with more appropriate facilities
* Issues regarding the choice of modes (between car, NMV and walking) have to be dealt with at the
planning stage.
3.    Future Challenges
- Pace of Change. This makes planning particularly difficult, as the experience with the Ring Road has
shown. Makes good predictions more important and shows the need for flexibility and continuous
planning or works will be rendered obsolete by increases in traffic. A good strategic plan is important
when trying to assess individual projects.
=  Project Investment Approval Procedures used in China are generally satisfactory and simpler than
WB procedures. These procedures are being further simplified, but more public participation is
required and this is being introduced. There is also a need for better integration between SMG and
districts. (Transport is 1/3 rd of the SMG investment budget. This is a non-conmmercial investment by
SMG.)
*  Environment and Sustainable Development. Environmental considerations (costs and benefits)
should be given a higher profile in the evaluation of projects - for example whether to put metro
underground. There is a need to raise public awareness of environmental issues of environmental
issues. Choice of the most appropriate mechanisms to reduce pollution from cars - emission control
devices, tax policies, better control of certain types of vehicles, better traffic management, travel
demand management.
Key Conclusions from the "Micro" - Traffic Management, Public Transport and Urban Road Design
Working Group Discussions
1.    Traffic management - change of mindset after WB project:
* Idea of separation of MV and NMV now accepted, but due to the differences of view between
departments, the pace of implementation has been slow.
* Bicycles will still be an important travel mode for Shanghai residents, but complete separation from
motor vehicles will take a long time.
- 46 -



* Channelization now accepted, but congestion at junctions still has to be solved
2.    Safety - have to put people first in the prevention of accidents and in designing a black spot
program. Experts in analysis of traffic accidents have been engaged to measure accidents and design
solutions.
3.    Public Transport - great deal of reform, facilitated by the project.
* Pricing change has reduced the financial burden on government.
* Organization - monopoly of STC has been broken
4.    Urban Road Design
* Improvement of road standards has improved the quality of life of residents.
* Putting people first is now taken seriously through environmental protection and beautification of road
5.    Future Challenges
* Improving the connections between elevated road system and ground level roads. In order to
facilitate smooth traffic flow on the Inner Ring Road, there is a need to smooth the flow between the
elevated road and the ground level roads. Currently there is congestion at the on/off ramps so manual
ramp control is used.
. Traffic Management at Junctions. Planning, design and management of traffic at junctions; because
of the mix of MVINMV and pedestrians. The aim is to have no congestion but smooth, fast and safe
movements for all modes.
* Putting public transport first. People are chanting this slogan, but don't know what to do to practice
this idea. SMG should give clarify the policy on "Public Transport for People" so that bus companies
can better serve passengers and so that traffic management agencies can introduce bus lanes and signal
priorities favoring buses. There is a need to not only change the mindset, but to put it into practice, (to
avoid repetition of the process that led to the withdrawal of the Waitan busway).
- Better Interchanges between modes. How to connect bus and rail lines? Inconvenient interchanges
(like on the Pearl Line) does not help passengers.
* Better Planning and Design of Roads:
(i) More consideration must be given to pedestrians and NMV, especially pedestrian safety. IRR
quite safe but only because there are no pedestrians or bicycles. But roads in the suburbs are
not safe as not enough consideration is given to pedestrians and cyclists.
(ii) National road design code needs to be reviewed so that designs can be based more on road
function - for example lane widths. How wide should they be? In the CBD they are actually
2.5 m. But the design code requires a 3.75 m width for a 40 km/hr design speed.
(iii) Now that the 3 E-W and 3 N-S arterial routes are built in the CBD within the ring road, there
is a need to upgrade the rest of the network to provide a better grid, while taking account of
historic buildings.
- 47 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 31441
.  >.  . sr ! I /!ANC.5US; w><4m,6  -1.    !i  G , A , -ANG   ,
H A N D A   D-
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T            05 _-  IATRICTa
CHINA            -VN .-
EXISTINGIN 1991:  __                           pp  y  GPLJ )
'                                          C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
BUS DEPOTS AND GARAGES  4  'I
BU W:    S INTERCHANGE1<F, 
\ INNER RING ROAD   J EC WUIG
-  PRIMARY ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS          ~-                           
RAILROADS           TAt  
*                 -  I-  NEW WORKS--- ----------
RiCT  DISTRI                STRICTNT  NBAK  ROEC  _______  ______RD____
UO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JL



