Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11985-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SECOND SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 10, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 11985 CHA
Type: SAR
Environment and Urban Development Division
China and Nongolia Deparment
East Asia and Ptcific Regional Office
This do_ment bas a restricted dstribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their ofcid duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihout World Bank authoition.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 31, 1993)
Currency name       =   Renminbi
Currency unit    =   Yuan (Y)
$1.00     =    Y 5.70
$0.19     =   Y 1.0
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)      =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kim)    =   0.62 mile (mi)
I square meter (m)       =   10.76 square feet (ft2)
1 square kilometer (km)       =   0.4 square miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha) = 0.01 (in2)      =   2.47 acres (ac) = 15 mu
1 mu      =   666.7 e2 = 0.0667 ha
1 kilogram (kg)     =   2.2046 pounds (lbs)
I metric ton (m ton)     =   2,204 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
8FYP   - Fighth Five-Year Plan (1991-95)        SCPDRI - Shanghai City Planning and Design
9FYP   - riinth Five-Year Plan (1996-2000)                 Research Institute
ATC    - Area Traffic Control                   SERAP - Shanghai Economic Reform Action
CBD    - Central Business District                         Program
EA      - Environmental Assessment              SESRI  - Shanghai Enviromnental Sciences
EAP    - Environmental Action Plan                         Research Institute
EIRR    - Economic Internal Rate of Return      SFB    - Shanghai Finance Bureau
EMP    - Environmental Motnitoring Plan         SMTICO  - Shanghai International Tendering and
ERP    - Emergency Response Plan                           Import Company
ERR    - Economic Rate of Return                SM       - Shanghai Municipality
FYRR   .- First Year Rate of Return              SMAB  - Shanghai Municipal Audit Bureau
GDP       Gross Domestic Produ!t                SMCC  - Shanghai Municipal Construction
GNP    - Gross National Product                            Commission
ICB     - International Competitive Bidding     SMEAD - Shanghai  Municipal Engineering
IRR     - Inner Ring Road                                  Administration Department
LCB     - Local Competitive Bidding             SMECC - Shanghai  Municipal Engineering
LIB     - Limited International Bidding                    Construction Company
MCon   - Ministry of Construction               SMTP I - First  Shanghai  Metropolitan
MV      - Motor Vehicle                                    Transport Project
NEPA   - National Environmental Protection      SOE    - Statement of Expenditure
Agency                                SPC    - State Planning Commission
NMV    - Nonmotorized Vehicle                   SPSB   - Shanghai Public Security Bureau
NSC     - North-South Corridor                  ST       - Shanghai Transit
PIU     - Project Implementation Unit           TA       - Technical Assistance
PMS    - Pavement Management System             TMP    - Traffic Management Program
PRC     - The People's Republic of China        TMS    - Traffic Management and Safety
PSB     - Public Security Bureau                TVE    - Township and Village Enterprise
RAP    - Resettlement Action Plan               UNDP  - United  Nations  Development
SAA     - State Audit Administration                       Programme
SCCIPI - Shanghai  City  Comprehensive          VIM    - Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance
Transport Planning Institute          VOC    - Vehicle Operating Cost



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
SECOND SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN
TRANSPORT PROJECT
LOAN Are PRoJEcT SUMMARY
Borrower:       People's Republic of China
B fdkic :       Shanghai Municipality
Amount:         $150 million equivalent
Terms:          20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
intere  rate.
Objectives:     The key objectdves of the proposed project, in support of the economic
and social development of Shanghai, are: (a) to enhance economic
productivity by improving the operational and economic efficiency of
the urban transport system; and (b) to strengthen public sector
management capacity by improving the planning and management of
the urban transport system.
Description:    The project includes: (a) construction of about 22 km of the Shanghai
Inner Ring Road (IRR) Stage 2 as a four-lane viaduct lining the new
Nanpu and Yarngpu Bridges over the Huangpu River with the Stage 1
IRR now in construction under the first Bank-financed Shanghai
Metropolitan Transport Project (SMTP I); (b) a Traffic Management
and Safety component to extend the signalized Area Traffic Control
system in the city center, equip a Road Safety Research Center, and
extend the Traffic Management Pro-ram started under SMTP I;
(c) investments in public transport to  istruct and equip two bus
depots and one bus interchange for the Shiaxghai Transit Company; and
(d) technical assistance to support project implementation and to give
further support to transport planning institutions.
Beneits:        The project would alleviate traffic congestion by both (a) providing
much needed additional traffic capacity, and 0b) making travel by
public transport and nonmotorized velicles more attractive and safer.
The IRR Stage 2 would provide greatly improved access to the Pudong
development zone via the new Huangpu River - idges, thus removing
a serious impediment to growth in this important region. Benefits
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performame
of their offcW dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wotid Bank authorization.



would accue in the form of vehicle opert  cost savings, savings In
person  tavel dme, reductions in acdent costs, and in cozjuncto
witi Shaghai's economic reform action pla  imI, in
ger onomic growth in the City, and eseially in Pudong.
Risks:         Delays are possible in the constrcto of the IRR viaduct, but th risk
is cnsdered small. This project is the top-priority road invetment of
Shanghai; furthermor, a very smilar project (IRR Stage 1 under the
SW"r I project) i under way, and te minor deays and difficulties in
its implementation hae xdeady prvided use  leson. There is dhe
risk that inadequate attention will be paid    the surfae traffic
engineering works and minor investmts needed to realize the ful
benefits of the  ng road imvements. These aspects have been
conidered to the extent possible in project design, and ShangLal
Muniipalit (SM) is iely to resond quickly if problems do omcr.
Te  is also a risk that road trffic in the IRR corridor may grow
much fster than anticipated at the tme this project was identfied, so
ta the IRR will once again expiene seious congestion. While this
i possible, the extnsve tansport invstment program of SM should
enswe a growing taffic capt to counter this rsk. Fmally, the risk
that SM  will not implement a taffic management strategy with
suificient priority, thus diminishing the b-nefits of the tffic
mlanagtement components of this priject, cannot be dicouted in the
short term, but can be couantred by continuing strong support for the
taffic management agencies in Shanghai, building on the progress
wchieved in SMP I.
Fmated Costs                                   Lad   Foredgn   ltal
($ million)
A. Inner Ring Road             229.7   257.5   487.2
B. Traffic Management and Safety  20.7    13.3    34.0
C. Public TIanspot Investments    17.2    11.8    29.0
D. Technical Assnce              0.0      1.1      1.1
Totl lBase Cost         26t    283.        S
Physical Contingencies          16.4    18.1    34.5
Price Contingencie              54.7    16.6    71.3
logl Pject Cost         338.7    318.4    671
Financing Plau  Municipal Government           338.7   168.4   507.1
IBRD                             0.0   150.0   150.0



Bank FY      Il  r2          1299   1Z    1221
($S min)
Annual     28.3    39.6    43.5    38.5      0.1
Cumulative     28.3    67.9   111.4   149.9   150.0
T'Oveo Cae
gory:         Not applicable
Rate
of Return:    20 percent for the IRR Stage 2
Maps:          IRD 24983 and 24984.



- iv-
CONTENTS
1   The Urban Sector In China  .......*.....................    1
A.  Demogphicand EonomicTrends .....................                      1
B.  Nationa UrbaizationStrategy andIssues .............4
C.  UrbanTransport ssues  ..............                            *    7
D.  Lessons Learned from PasPjt       .      ........... ... ......*.*... *    8
2   Urban Tansport In Shanghai .         ....................                10
A.  Introduction to Urban Shanghai .......................   10
B.  Economic Reforin in Shanghai ........................   11
C.  Master Plnning ............. , ........                             14
D.  Road System .....           ....... ..........                       14
E.  Public Transport System .        ................                    17
F.  TravelDeimand . .........            .................. ...    19
G.  Transport and the Urban Environment..................               20
H.  Urban Tr3ansport Institutions.    ..................                21
J.   SM Medium- -erm Transpot Investment Program ............    22
3 The1 ProJect.....                                  ..        ... too.. 24
A.  Origin and Formulaion      .     .................... .   24
B.   Objectives and Rationale for BanM nvolvement.      ........         25
C.  Dlescription.....       ......       ..       ........ .  ....   26
D. Environment.................. 30
E.  Lmd Acquisition and Resetement...................                    32
F.  Cost Estiates .....     ............. . ........                     33
G.   Fi    n .       ...  ......        ...........                      34
H.  Imiplemenitation........ . ..   ....  00.0 . ... . .. ..   34
I.   Prourement..................                                        36
This report is based on the findings of a February 1993 apprai   mission comprising
Stephen Stares (Senior Transport Specils, Task Manager), Edward Dotson (Urban
Transport Specialist), Hubert NovJosserand  Tmrnspor Specalt), Randal Vick
(ProcurementSpecialist), Gerge Mahoney (Engineer, consutant), (eorgeBeie(Transport
Economist, consultant), Youxuan Zhu (estdement Specia, condutant), Husam Anwar
(Enviromental Speciaist, consultant) and Gladys Frame Traffic Engineer, consulant).
Peer Reviewers for the project were Richard Scurfield Princpal Transport Specialt),
Andrew Hamer (Principal Sector Economist), Paul Cadario (Chief Administrative Officer).
The Division Chief is Katherine Sierra and the Departent Director is Shahid Javed Burid.



V-
J.   Audbisgm t  . . . . . .. . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .  .    . . .   .    39
K.   Auditig  *.......................... ***************                  Z* 4
L.   Suprvion, Rqtig, and Monitoring . ................ .   40
4   Ecoonl EZva       o  ................. * *............ .....   42
A.   Eoonomic Rationae for Project Design ....... . . . .   ..............    42
B.  PrqectBeniefits ..........................................   43
C.   Eonomic Rates of ReMt   .................................  .   44
D.   JojectiRWs ....... .........  . . I... ...........   45
S           --I t    Readied andRoununeio  . ...... . .   ...............   47
TAILU
2.1  Prmary Cities in  a.m  1991 . ..............  ..   .........   48
2.2  ShanShai:Projected Popadw ioandEmployment .....         ..........    48
2.3  Shanghai: PubHcTransit Fle,1981-91 ........ ............    49
2.4  Shanghai: Shanghai Transit (S1) Fnancial Statistics, 1986-92 .......    49
2.5  Shanghai: JintVenture DouCompaies,,1992 ....... .........    50
2.6  Shanghai: FerryFlkeeandPasseng  Numbers  ................    50
2.7  Shanghai: MototVehidleFleet,1981-91 ..................              ..    51
2.8  Shangha: NonmotorVeidce(NM V)Fleet,1981-91  ............    52
2.9  Shanghai: Projected Fiscal Renues   . ........  ...   ........  .   53
2.10 Shanghai:  Alocaio of Resources in the Transport Sector.........    53
2.11 Shanghai: Mefium-Term  nsport hnven"        t Program  ..........    54
ANNEs
1.   Economc Reforni in Sghn i  . ..................  .......   56
2.   Reforn of Shnghai Trs   .................................... .   63
3.   Pocedurs for Procesing Tf  MProgram Subprojects .. .    68
4.   Techical Assistance, inuding Ouline Tms of RefeMr         . .......    73
5.  BEnirmentalAsc Asp"  oftie IaRingRoadStage2  ...........    89
6.   Ree        tAspts of the Pject . ...........  ...........   99
7.   Project Cost Estiniates  ...............................  114
8.   Project Mna        tO      aiTechnical Assstance Summary
and Impemen         Schede ................... -.. ...    119
9.   Disbursement Profeand Expenditure Flows ..................   122
10.  SupervisionPlan ......................                  .............  129
11   Project Mlottorig indices .............................. .  130
12.  Economic Evluaim   ................................  132
13.  DocumentsAvailable in the PojecFile ............... ..          ....  141



-vi-
CRT
lwr  Ring Road Typical Cs-Sectons
MAN
IBRD 24983 - Prject Locaion
IBRP 24984 - Draft Trffic Maagement Strategy



- 1 -
1. THE URBAN SECTOR IN CHINA
A. DMwOGRAPC AN  ECONOM IC T            s
1.1         Population. China alrady has, in absolute terms, the world's largest urban
population. It is undergoing the transiton from a rural to an urban society rapidly enough
that, by the start of the riew century, one half of its population wou-ld live in officially
desipated cities and towns. In terms %f land mass it is the third-largest country on Earth
(after Canada and the Russian Federaion), with a total area coverng approximately 9.6
million lm2 (3.7 million mi) including 80,000 km2 (31,000 mi2) in some 5,000 offshore
slands.Jj Its population-estirnated at 1.16 billion in 1991-is the largest of any country
in the world and grew at 1.5 percent per year on average during the period 1981-90.
About 305 million now live within the boundaries of China's 479 designated towns and
cities.2/ Temporary residents swell these numbers by an estimated 60 nmillion or more
on any given day. The majority of urban settlements (80 percent) are located in the coastal
Areas amd central region where China's arable land resources and economic activity are
concentrated. Twenty-eight cities have populations greater than 1 ni}lion (accounting for
6.5 percent of the urban popuation), and 140 have populations between 200,000 and 1
million (32.2 percent).
1.2         Not all urbaniation is occurring within the urban administrative areas. An
important phenomenon of recent economic growth has been the mushrooming of township
and vfllage enterprises (TVEs) in rural counties on the periphery of larger cities, causing
a densification in land use and budding urbanization outside the designated urban areas.
It was due largely to administrative boundary reclassification that the registered urban
population grew at a rate of 5 percent per year between the census of 1982 and that of
11  Including Taiwan (35,990 km).
ZJ  Chia's population statistics are unclear as to the urban component. Official staistics differentiaw
between agricultural and  icultual worers, but eiter class may live legitimately (and sometimes
illegally) in an urban or nourban area. The igures quoted here are nonagricultual population
registered as ling in urban areas. Estimates of the agdcultual popuation living in cities either as
contractors or illegal migrants are uaailable but could be a high as 20 percent of the registred
population.



-2-
199C. This rate can be expected to accelera  in future as a result of both push and pull
factors.Y
1.3          Under the impetus of the government's economic development stagy
urban distict populations (including those of older coastl cite) have begun to grow more
rapidly in recent years, reflectng an increased use of migrant contrac labor 41 and the
relaxatton of wban residency controls in the wake of urban food price reform. Increased
retent!- n of revenues at the local level has allowed the ovemrl scale of municipal
residential and nonresidential investment to grow rapidly-adding 6 percent to the existing
stock each year and aconting for 10 to 15 percent of urban gross domestic product
(GDP). Dedensification, however, proceeded slowly in the absence of a well-developed
land market The size of the built-up areas of cities and towns expanded only some 3
percent a year on average during the past decade.
1.4          Economy. Most of China's spetcular economic growth is occurring in
its cities. Since 1984, urban economic acdvity-which now accounts for more than half
of GDP-grew at weUll over 10 percent per annum. Moreover, most of the balance of
production occur in the rmal counties within the municipal area surrounding the cities.
Municipalities therefore account for over 90 percont of China's otal industdal output.
Open unemployment in cities is low, at about 2 prcent, and urban poverty is virtally
unknown. Incomes (and savings rates) are relatively high in urbn areas. Annual income
per capita in urban areas in 1990 was Y 2,140 compared to Y 630 in rural areas. Total
personal savings deposits on balance in 1991 from urban dwellers was Y 539 billion or 59
percent of total deposits.
1.5          For historical reasons related to weak domestic trade facilities and a
dliberate policy of self-sufficiency at the local govemment level, Chinese cities and their
economic strcture are charactizd by intense, divesified industrial production, high
levels of state ownehip of enterprises and low tertiary (service) sector activity. In the
past, litde play was given openly to the traditional role of urban centers as facilitators of
economic activity. While official statistics d not capture explicitly some of the de facto
service sector activity within industry and govemnment, for the 479 cities of China taken
as a whole, 13 percent of municipal GDP is recorded as derived from the primary industry
l/  A sufficit concentidon of rua industy (to dh extent of a total local GNP of at la Y 200 million)
and housing (i.e., a    gu  popuaion of at least 60,000) is justificaion for designation of the
rual area concened as aubn aUdmistrave disrct. no Ministry of Constuon (MCon)
estimates ha some  178 new cities will grdu in tis way from among China's more than 44,000
ural townhips by the yea 2000. The prion cf municipal services to such new cities reprst
a major challengp in view of u        in infrasructu  due to th relatively unplanned and
unsered natur 4f earier nual industrial and residential growth.
4/  Beas only regst-ted citizen ae reflected, considerable underrportng of the de facto urban
population occurs du., to the presenc of an unregisteed m:ant population. Iarger cities reognize
the presenco of aflotiDg populatiDons compising up to 20 pect or more of the actual popuation.
The reason for large migrant pOpulations is A Ai har to find. China's cities account for over 90 percent
of its gross industial output They a a major source of employamt (26 percet of total wokfo)
and relative proweity.



- 3 -
sector and 56 per t from the  cwody sector-in contrast to intnational levels for
larer cities of near zero and 30 percent, respectively.dI  Impotntly, state-owned
enterprises are responsible fr%r between 60 to 70 percent of urban economi acdvity, but
some 20 to 30 percent of hese are unprofitable and result in a seious drain on local
economic resources.
1.6          Manufacturing in China's cites is ypically very diverse, revealing lttle
selectivity or    lization, while opating wit . plants that are, by almost any measure,
generally obsolete in layout, technology, inventory management, quality control, labor
efficiency and raw material udlization rates. Much of this industry is located in the
built-up areas of the city, often within the boundaies of the 1949 city, uting
20-30 percent of the land. In Hong Kong, by contrast, industry uses only some 6 percent
of the built-up area, while in Seoul, the proportion is 9 pent. In North America, the
norm is 10 percent ar Iess.=/ However, if the core areas of the old industial cities are
to shift from industial to more intensive commercial uses consistent with land values,
investments in infatucture will have to greatly increase the central core area carrying
capacity." Road space, for instance, would have to be increased by a factor of two.7/
This would also require a rationalization of land use.
1.7          Admisan. China is a unitary state govemed in many respect similar
to a confedertion since ependiture and revenue authority is, to a considerable extent,
decentized to local government. In China's local government structure, cities do not
appear as separate corporte entities. Urb.izd areas are generally organized as district
administraions subordinate to a municipal or prefectural authorty, which also administers
a large contiguous rural area. Typically, only about 2 percent of the municipal area is
built-up urban development.  There are cunrently  iiree muncipalites in China with
provincial-level rank (i.e., direcdy reporting to the State Council); 183 with prefectural
rank reporting to ther respective provincial goernors (although about 20 now have direct
reporting pnvileges to central government on economic development matters); and 248
with county-town rank reporung to the county administration.8/
I/  in China, ts lowet percentaes of industia production axe found among tbe cties of the scudie,
provns, considered the most advanced in reforn  their economy. Even there, the proporion
contibuted by the seconday sector totaled or exceeded 40 percent. In Shbnai, th proportin rses
to 65 perent.
i1  Wo.d Bank China-UrbanLandManagenme: OptionsforanEmegngsMar4  Ebonon. Report
No. 10692-CA. The pectg  of built-up land area devoted to industrial uses ia die cities studied
vaies from 18 peret in Senzhen to 27 percent in Guangriiou. An additional 3 to 6 pert is taken
up by wrhaou. (Taken from Lin Ziqun, lhe Developmen of Urban Cotrucion Land in Cna
daring Mhe 1980s, Mnsty of Conruction, 1992.)
2/  Within ShaDai's inner-rig road area, equivalent to the 1949 city boundaries, only 5 percent of the
land is used for tansportaton, ves t norm in developed country cities is 20 Peren or more,
including such high-density centers as Hong Kong and Singpote.
I/  *Towns are not ormaly sept admisttvejurisdic         but are included in the Stat Statistca
Bures' data an urban poplwation when the town population exceeds 3,000, of which 85 perct are
involved in n        occupations.



-4-
1.8          Chinese municipalities cuently resemble virtual city states in terms of their
comprehensive responsibilities and powers for economic as well as social affairs within
their jurisdictions. Although cental core and line ministries are replicated in the municipal
administration, direct communication with these cental authonties is confined largely to
administrative and technical guidance and occasonal negotiations over economic
resources.2/ The emergence of a nonstate sector in China is changing the role and
responsibilities of local government significantly. Recent measures aimed at separating the
roles of govemment and industry are now being implemented aggressively at all levels of
government. If such meuns are successful, local governments in China would in all
lihlihood come to icreingly resemble their foreign counterparts in terms of their role
and rewsponsibilities. These would be mainly directed towards fcilitaon of industrial and
commercial activity, and maineance of social order and welfare.  These residual
responsibilities would include the planning and provision of public services and
infrastructure.
B. NATIONAL URANMZATION STATWY A    ISSUES
1.9          China has, since 1949, tightly managed its urbanization process in order to
combat rual-urban migrtion, limit urban welfare subsidy costs and conserve arable land,
as wall as to adjust what was regarded as undue economic primacy. However,
respoasibility for China's urbanization strategy formialation and implementation does not
rest wih a single ministry. The above-mentioned goals were pursued with varying degrees
of success thxaugh a number of administrative and fiscal measures by various ministries,
as well as economic incentives, all with different emphases and impacts over the years.
For example, prior to the recent promotion of rural industry, the development of small-
and medium-size cities was promoted-especially in the central and sparsely populated
western regions, and in the form of satellite towns adjacent to major cities.lQ/
Nowadays, specal economic zones are the favored strategy and tomorrow, urban renewal
may become the dominant mode.
1.10         Notwithstanding ongoing initiatives, the future urbanization strategy is more
likely to be subsumed into the current economic transformation since the nexus of
2/  The Ministy of Construction (MCon) s the cenral agency resp_ ble for urba infrastruct
development planing at the national level. It also provides guidance to the provinces and the three
centraly controlle municipalities (Beijing, Shanghai, and Tianjin) on matters concerning lan-use and
infstuctr deelopmnt plans, and   oens on technical standards and critea. The
National Environmeta Protetion Acy (NEPA), separated in 1988 from the Ministy of
Construction, is esponsible for setting environmental policies and providing guidance to the provinc
on environmental matters. Enfocemet of traffic and road safety laws and regulations is the
rsonsibility of the Ministry of Public Security (MPS), which is also responsible for intemal secuity.
IQ/ Some 290 cities were created between 1950 and 1988, of which 69 were located in the westem region
and 125 were in the centml tion. According to the Ministry of Construction the number of cities is
expected to increase to about 645 by the year 2000. The criteia for creation of a county-level
municipality (or town) inclWdes (a) a nonagricultual commumity of at least 60,000, and (b) an economic
base with a GNP of Y 200 milion. Applications are processed by the Civil Affairs Bureau for
provincial-level approval and confiumation by State Council.



government's reform progm  lies in the cities. The eauing transformation to a regulated
market economy will impact them significantly in loosening controls and increasing
economic activity, thereby causing urbaniztion tc uccur differently than in the past-
perhaps somedmes in conflict with the above-mentioned goals. During the last decade,
particularly after 1984, China's m palities have already undergone a seres of policy
and institutional reforms. Some of the areas affected and issues involved are discussed
below.
1.11        Economic Structure. Using indicators from comparative cities in Asia and
among developed countries it is expected that, as the Chinese economy develops, the
secondwy sector's share of the larger cities' output would fall to about 30 percent, with
less than 15 percent of their land being occupied by manufacturing industry of an
increasngly hi-tech nonpolluting nature. The displaced industry could be expected to
relocate-pricularly as transport links in.prove-bo smaler centers with comparative
advantages in land, labor and other input costs. China is already undertaking a swift
increase in its fonnal service sector activity, which can be expected over time to shift land
use from industrial to commercial purposes.
1.12        China's industrial reform program and the introduction of labor mobility
requires that enterpnises divest of their housing and social security responsibilities.
Measures adopted in the housing sector with the assistance of the Bank include creation of
a housing market and housing finance system which, while likely to accelerate land
development, could significantly reduce state involvement in housing and related secondary
infrastruct   provision. The establishment of a state social security system is being
explored, including the creation of large pension and insurance funds with potentially
important implications as sources of long-term financing for major infrastructure
investments.II/
1.13        Urban Renewal.  InTo troublesome consequences of China's past
urbanization strategies are that urban densities are among the highest in the world and that
the urban form of many older cities includes a canter frozen largely in the pattern of
buildings, infrastructure and uses imposed in the immediate post-1949 era. In China's
megacities such as Shanghai, average densities range from 1,200 to 2,900 persons/ha.
These characteristics are indicative of very high levels of congestion, poor environment and
inappropriate land use, leading to an urgent need for urban renewal as well as expansion-
and the infirastructure investnents to accompany them-in order to achieve the efficiency
required for local industry and commerce to compete in domestic and international
markets. Presuming a sustained real positive increase in personal incomes, it can also be
expected that urban dwellers will seek higher standards of housing and services. The
resulting investments will be massive in scale, and may involve significant spatial
II  Assistnce is being provided thwugh a preparatio of a forhoming Housing and Social Security
Refoi -in Project basd on earlier studie by the govenm  and the Bank including Report No. 7605-
CHA, ReoJb,ing Socka Seudly In a Socilist Economy (1989) and Report No. 8415-CSA, C7hi=
Urban Housing RJWobmL Isses and Implemenation Options (1992).



- 6-
targeting, some of which will be directed at the densdy populated old core areas of the
city.
1.14       In    a        Man ent. Municipaliies are solely responsible for
proving,   ining and f g  a fill range of public services and infastucture in
urban aea though a Municipal Construction Commission, which oveees the activities
of a large number of public utlity corporations and svice bureaus, and their subordiate
departments. Invetmeuts, based on a five-year program conistent with the municipal
master plan approved by State Council, are pamned at the municipal or disict level
(according to the dgnificance of the service), and annual appropons are sanctioned by
the Economic Planning Commission within budget limits established by the Fiace
Bureau. All re urban infrastructure projects are reviewed by MCon. Large projects
(exceeding Y 200 million) require approval by the State Plnning Commission (SPC).
Those involving foreign loans require approval by both the SPC and the State Council.
1.15       In the past, the municipal budget provided all investment funds but
increasingly, capitl development finance is now raised by intemal cash generation and
domestic borrowing by the agencies concerned, usually from nonbaning sources or
intemra revolving funds. Maintenance and recurrent expenditures are planned separate
from development activities according to fixed schedules; budgets are financed entirely
from charges and ues allocated by the Finance Bureau. Notwiti4anding this process,
investment planning suffers from poor coordination among bureaus and between municipal
andistrict levels. Moreover, because of the significant role of extrabudgetary funding,
many plans escae normal budget scrutiny. with the result that investment efficiency can
be quite low. The system also still incorporates many features and nigidities of the supply-
driven, planned economy that are inapprate to the emerging market economy.
1.16       The emergence of housing and land markets, the trend towards urban
renewal, and the increasing locational flexibility available to industry and housing indicate
that land use and sectoral plans reflected in the municipal master plans are becoming
obsolete. Such plans nevertheless form the current basis for costly trunk infrastructure
network planning (although emphasis on urban waste management services and
environmental protectwn was quite weak or given litde prominence). China's urban land
use planning mechanism is generally strictly enforced in urban districts and is now ill-
suited to future urban development planning needs since it aes litde account of economic
impacts of zoning and subdivision controls. The planners, however, have no authority in
rural counties where TVE growth is burgeoning without plaming controls. Sectoral
planning also suffers from similar rgidities, such as planning and design critena and unit
costing methodology imposed by Beijing. The inceased dependance of municipal services
on direct cost recovery suggests, however, that such criteia should become more
responsive to demand and willingness to pay. Costs are being increasingly contained by
competitive bidding, but direct labor or force account construction methods are still used
extensively.
1.17             al  nance. An important factor in the historical rate of urban
growth has been the role of cities in national resource mobilization. Under China's



7 -
dcentalized fiscal system, municipal revenues are shared with national govermt for
redisribution. Revenue retention rates were often very low in the past; isufficient in
many cas to allow significant expanion of fixed assets or even to maintain them
adequaty. Capital expenditure funding either in the form of grants or credit was largely
unavilable to the municipal services sector and was directed mainly to the production
sectors rather than infrastuure. Much of the funding to industry was, and still is,
absobed by inefficient and unprofitable state enterpnses. Since enterprs, rather than
the municipality, ae responsible for many welfire functions including housing provision,
furhe baclogs and shortages arose. Many cides, Shanghai among them, enterd a
vicious  ial of decline under these    mstances-a trend which was arrested in the mid-
1980s with the onset of economic reform in urban areas.
1.18        As a feature of the economic reform program, municipalites have been able
to reain a greater share of their revenues. With the s n  of induswial income taxes
and pofit remiuances as well as increased reliance on nontax revenues, a significant share
of economic resources is now raised and allocated outside the budget process. As part of
this transiton, wages and prices have ineased substantially, so that urban services prices
(water supply, bus fares, town gas, etc) now reflect far fewer subsidies and indicate a more
autonomous role for the responsible agencies. In addition, access to external finance
through bond issues and joint ventures with foreign investors is being explored and the
revenue base is being ecpanded. Recently a land-use rights market has emerged that is
allowing  icipalites to monetize land values, thereby providing a significant new source
of local income to spport both growth and renewal. Notwithstanding this significant
prge, the municipal finance system is in urgent need of (a) restructuring, in order to
reflect the residual role of the state sector, (b) reforming, to an appropriate role in a more
efficient naional fiscal system, and (c) modernizing, to play a more effective role in
planning, budgeding and supervision of municipal finances. Towards this end, during
1993/94 the Bank will assist the government with a study of municipal finance as part of
its series of cental-local fiscal relations and fiscal reform studies in China.1ZI
C. URBAN TRANPORT MISSES
1.19        Urban trsport affects the productivity of cities in many ways. Fftt, the
costs of production of goods and services are influenced, both directly and indirecty,
through the time required to move people and freight. Production costs are higher when
distribution tk  place in congested conditions and employee welfare costs are higher
when employees have to undertake long and slow joumeys to work. Second, the
constuction, oneration and maintenance of the urban transport system is capital-intensive,
and to the extent that there is less than full cost recovery, can require a significant
prwportion of government resources. Third, the form of city development itself is
dependent on the way in which urban tasport is provided; the impact of poorly planned
and functioning urban transport on city land-use development can result in an inefficient
use of land and in unnecessarily high production and distribution costs. Last, it is
AZV  Rcpot 7065-S, ana& Reiwe MobilAdon d Tax Polky (1990).



- 8 -
incrasingly recognized that urban transport can have a serious negadve impact on the
quality of urban life, by creatng air pollution and noise. If these impacts are not
mitigated, they can affect the health, working capacity, and lifestyles of urban populaons.
1.20        In urban China, the, number of persons per motorized vehicle ranges from
30 to 85 persons per vehicle, which is very low. The number of private cars in China is
also very low-about 170 to 320 persons per vehicle, and the number of motorcycles has
been severely restricted in most cities. On the other hand, the number of persons per
bicycle ranges from 1.2 to 2.1 and the use of public transport is extensive. Despite the
crucial role of public trasport, due to an absence of any increase in bus fares for about
20 years and difficulties in obtaining municipal funds, investnent in the bus and trolley
systems has been low. Large numbers of public transport vehicles, which have long
passed their useful life and are prone to frequent mechanical breakdowns, are still in use.
In many cities, the situation has deteriorated to such a point that it is quicker to ride a
bicycle in the central business district (CBD) and other congested areas for shorter joumeys
than to use public transport.
1.21        Urban transport problems in all major Chinese cities are severe and
worsening. In the larger cities, transit times are excessive throughout the day on most
main corridors leading to the CBD and to main industrial areas. These problems stem
from (a) inadequate road space-roads occupy about 7 percent of the total urban area of
cities in China, compared to 20-25 pemcent in developed countries; (b) poor utilization of
the road space due to mixing of motorized and nonmotorized vehicles; (c) poor road user
discipline and safety enforcement; and (d) severe underinvestment in the public transport
systems. The traffic situation in cities has been deteriorating over the past few years as
indicated by decreasing travel speeds in the CBD and an increasing number of accidents.
1.22        Heavy competition for limited city development funds for capital works
suggests that maximum advantage should be extracted from low-cost improvements and
operational efficiency. The thrust for such improvements would lie in improving the use
of the current road system capacity and upgrading the public transport system to make it
a more desirable mode of travel. There is an urgent need to introduce modem concepts
and improved design of urban transport and road systems. Central government policies
and guidance in this respect are not well developed and local officials in charge of urban
transport need to be further tained in design, operation, management, and traffic
regulation enforcement. For the public transport system, operations need to be made more
efficient through better route and schedule design, and improved maintenance of public
transport vehicles.
D. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PAST PROJECTS
1.23        The Shanghai Metropolitan Transport Project (SMTP I-Credit 2296-CHA,
1991) is the only stand-alone urban transport project in China, although there are important
urban transport components in the ongoing Medium-Sized Cities Development Project
(Loan/Credit 3286/2201-CHA, 1991), Liaoning Urban Infrastructure Project (Loan 2219-
CHA, 1991), and the Tianjin Urban Development and Environment Project, (Loan 2387-
CHA, 1992). Experience of urban transport projects in other countries can be summarized



-9-
from a recent review, underftken for the Medium-Sized Cities Urban Transport Ptoject in
Mexico (Loan 3559-MB) of 15 Project Completion Reports and/or Project Audit Reports
in the rbtn transport and development sectors worldwide. Ihe mai lessons identffied as
rlevat to China and the consequent actions in the proposed project are discussed below.
(a)   Weak  itonlcapacity affecdng planning, design and implementation.
China is relattvely strong in designg and implementing myjor
infrastuce projects.  Shanghai has shown this capability clrly in
disbursng nearly $0.8 billion in IBRD/IDA assistance on schedule during
the past decade. Early indications are that te infrastruc    component of
SMTP I will be completed ahead of schedule. However, China is not
strong in tansport planning and traffic management fields, largely due to
lack uf experience (coping with the motor vehicle is a relatively new
problem in China), and is receiving assistance through SMrP I in these
areas that will be continued under the proposed project.
(b)   Weak enforcement of traffic regulations.  A lack of resources for
enforcement has been cited by Shanghai Public Security Bureau (SPSB) as
a reason for the somewhat slower than expected implementation of certain
parts of the traffic management component of SMTP I. Future schemes
would be, as far as ptical, self-enforcing depending on physical rather
ta rguatory methods of traffic control. SPSB is fully involved in the
project design and is expected to have sufficient "ownership" and
commitment to undertake enforcement.
(c)   Inicient public tmasport operations. Public transport opeations are
generlly inefficiently run when in the hands of public enterprises. China
is no exception, and the bus services of many Chinese cities, Shanghai
included, have been neglected. Bus transport is likely to remain the largest
passenger carrier in Shanghai and, in light of urban subsidy concerns, is
being transformed to become commercially viable and is receiving technical
assistance under SMTP I.
(d)   Lak of consideration of environmental impacts-a feature of most
previous projects, and a potential cause for concem in China as the level of
motrization increases. In China, environmental analyses are required for
all major projects, but experience and skills are lacking to complete these
most effectively. Political awareness in China of environmental issues has
grown significantly in recent years to help ensure implementation of
findings in project design.
1.24       More generally, Bank experience from environment and urban infrastctue
investments in Shanghai and other cities in China confirm the lessons from the urban
nport sector. Environment and urban infastructe projects have demonstated high
implementation capacity, a tendency to postpone the implementation of financially efficient
cost-recovery policies, and the need to adopt long-term plans for the provision of essential
urban environmental svices.



- 10-
2. URBAN TRANSPORT IN SHANGHAI
A. 1WIRODUCMN To URBA  SHANGHA
2.1         Shanghai Municipaity (SM) is one of three provincia-level municipalies
in China, the others being Beijing and Tianjin. The municipality compies a total aea
of some 6,340 km2 consisting of 12 urbn districts (the city proper) and 9 nud counties.
Of the total 12.87 million registred population (1.2 percent of China's total), the
nonagricultura (urban) population is about 7.5 million. To this must be added about 2
million unregistered residents, of which 1.9 million live in the urban area. ITe natra
population growth rate was just 0.37 percent in 1990, but growing numbers of contact
workers are migrating from remote runl areas to fiL jobs in Shanghai and increasing the
demand for sevices. By the year 2000, the municipal population (including unregistered
residents) is projected to rise to 17 million, with an urban populton of 11 million (ale
2.2). Shanghai's built-up urban area covers only 280 km. Ten contguous urban disicts
cover 254 kWn2, and two additional urban districts contai the satellite towns of Mingbang
and Wusong. The city proper rankl as one of the densest settlements in the world with
29,646 inhabitants per lkn2.
2.2         Shanghai is one of the country's oldest and most important industial bases
and is a center of commerce, science, higher education, trade, and finance. It is the
largest port in China and lies at the head of the Yangtze Economic Zone (compsing the
Municipality of Shanghai and the Provinces of Jiangsu, Zhejiang, and Anhui), which
contains 182 million people and accounts for some 25 percent of the natnl output of
industry and agriculture. This region has the potential of becoming one of the largest
centers of internatonal trade and commerce in the Pacific region. The total labor force
of the Municipality is estimated at 9.5 million, of which 11 percent work in the pfimary
sector, and 60 percent and 28 percent in the seondary and ttiary sectors, respectively.
Shanghai GDP per capita reached Y 6,663 in 1991, well above the naional average of
Y 2,163.
2.3         Growth in the secondary and tertiary employment sctr is exected to
expand the labor force to 10.5 million as Shanghai enters the twenty-first century. GNP
in 1991 was Y 85.8 billion (4.3 percent of the national totl), with 71 percent of value
added coming from primary and secondary industry. Rapid growth in teiry or services
sector activity is epet  to contnbute to increased GNP gowth in future. Shangh';
average labor productivity of Y 29,183 in industry, average annual wages of Y 3,375 per
capita, and savings of Y 1,118 are among the highest in China. Its labor force is among
the best educated but also the most elderly in China, and employcrs face steeply rising pay-
as-you-go pension costs. Shanghai industry generaed Y 20.2 billion in pretx profits in
1990 (down from Y 22.8 billion in 1988) wivh a net fixed asset base valued at Y 43 billion



- 11 -
and woring capital of Y 31 bMion. These stics, however, mask an economic growth
rate that has been declining during the past decade and which was among the slowest in
China in 1990 (GNP grew by ondy 3.5 percent that year compared to the national average
of 5.2 percent-a sian  that is typical of China's most heavily industrialized,
state-owned local economies). In common with a national surge in economic performance
during the first half of 1992, Shanghai showed a 14 pent increase in GNP on an
annualized basis. However, the sustainability of strong economic growth will depend on
the effectiveness of fte economic reform program on which Shanghai has embarked, as
well as the availability of adequate infrastructure and efficient management of the residual
public sector and its finances.
B. ECONOMIC REFORM IN SHANGUAJ
2.4         Shanghai's development has historically been linked to the fact that it has
the largest port fcilities in the Yangtze basin, and indeed all of China. As China's
intrnational tade grew through the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, Shanghai
prospered, becoming the nation's busiest port, its leading commercial, financial and
manufacturing center, and its largest city. After liberation the government was, however,
detmined to achieve more balanced regional development. It therefore limited investment
in Shanghai and tapped the city's resources to support development of the national
economy. Financial constraints limited investment in infrastructure and productive activity,
while economic controls restricted the response of industry to changing economic
cditions and impeded the naural evoluton of the region's economy.
2.5         A more open policy regime would have seen Shanghai's industry
transformed from a low-techmology, energy-intensive sector to one characterized by high
technology, high value added and low environmental damage. Moreover, the entire
economic structure would have evolved into one where the manufacturing industry was
relatively less dominant while the teriary sector, especially commerce and finance, became
the major genertors of increased income and new employment. In more recent years, the
central government has recognized these problems and has decided to revitalize the
economy of the Yangtze basin with Shanghai as "the Dragon's head." It has reduced
Shanghai's fiscal burden, encouraged reform experiments and sanctioned the creation of
the Pudong Special Area to attract foreign investment, promote export development and
stimulate the growth of the entire region.
2.6         The Government of Shanghai recognizes the need to reform and transform
the economy. It is also, however, aware that these necessary processes will themselves
impose certain costs on the municipal economy. Shifting the structure of the economy to
raise the share of tertiary industry from 30 to 40 percent or more, for example, and
changing the structure of industry will impose significant costs. A considerable amount
of exisdng industrl capacity will be rendered obsolete and large numbers of workers will
be displaced. Some of these workers will be reabsorbed easily; others will have to be
retrained, but many may find it difficult to find new employment and the living standards
of these workers must be protected. It is recognized, however, that failure to carry out
reform because of fean about its employment consequences would result in the long-termi



- 12-
decay of Shangnai's economy. Increasing numbers of firms would find it difficult to
compete with newly emerging firms in other provinces. Attempting to maintain the
industries would impose high cost subsidies on the municipal budget, limiting fimds for
construction and maintenance of vital infrastructure. The city would thus be fced with
a vicious cycle of decying infrastructure, aging industry and fa    living standards.
2.7         Policy reforms introduced over the past decade have already significantly
increased the exposure of Chinese state industries to market forces, with measurable
impacts on productivity growth. Serious constraints remain, however, to the more
fundamental economic restructuing of the urban industial sector. Shanghai embodies
many of the more serious problems of an obsolescent industw  structe and locational
patten, and has also suffered from the deterioration of its physical inftrcture base and
neglect of pollution control. Although the city was initially slow to adopt system reforms
launched in other coastal provinces, the curent leadership is developing ambitious
programs for the transformation of Shanghai's economic base, including muliecl
reforms and an enhanced role for foreign investment.
2.8         The long-term vision that underlies the quickening pace of change in
Shanghai is one of a city whose economic basis will have experienced significant change.
The principles include the creation of basic conditions for (a) fair competition among
enrpries, and free entry and exit to the market, (b) efficient financial sector management
and public revenue generation, and (c) improvement of social iucture and
environmental management, together with an integrated, demand-driven approach to
xpenditure plamning and land management. The municipal leadership foresees a renewed
outward orientation and a revival, especially in the city center, of the service economy
(finance, trade, tourism, etc.). Major changes will be called for in industrial structure-
some of the old heavy industies will need to be closed or relocated to outlying areas (or
outside the province altogether), while more technologically advanced light industies,
better suited to Shanghai's location and resource endowment, are expected to be developed
on all increasingly decentralized pattern. Implicit in this transformation are such aspects
as (a) a satisfaory legal and institutional basis for both the formation and financing of
new enterprises, and (through merger, acquisidon, bakruptcy, etc.) the transformation or
closure of obso!ete firms; (b) enhanced enterprise autonomy in development, opeations
and decision making with regard to pricing, employment, trade, investment and distribution
of profits; (c) the ability to deal with redeployment of labor (unemployment protection,
retaining, and in some cases relocation and rehousing); (d) the development of land
markets to facilitate emergence of more efficient pawrns of spatial distribution of
economic activity; (e) a strengthened capacity for integrated urban planning and public
sector management; and (f) extensive investments in the expaasion, reconsuction and
moderization of the city's neglectd and obsolete physical infrauce, the financing of
which (whether through user charges, domestic or foreign bonrowing, or even possible
direct private invesUnent, etc.) will also represent a major challenge.
2.9         The task facing Shanghai's policymakers is complex and demanding in its
research and investment needs. In 1990, with Bank assistance, a process was begun to
(a) articulate Shanghai's comprehensive reform policies, (b) establish detailed acdon plans



- 13 -
for memtation  f eforms, and (c) link the future public expenditure program and
institutional development of Shanghai to the reform program. The main elements of
Shanhi's eform prgram are in the ar   of enterprise reform, fiscal and financial
reform, and housing,   ucture and social security reform. Other importa  related
elements of the program include pricing and trade refom, land reforn, and labor market
reform.
2.10        The integrted economic reform planning process was initiated in February
1991, following an Iteraonal Workshop on the Economic Development of Shanghai
sponsd by SM, the Bank, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the
Ford Foundation. The workshop's conclusions recommended an agenda of reform
piorities that was subsequently developed by SM into a target timetable of preliminary
objectves and measures coverng four general, inrrated areas of action.  This
prteimnary action plan was further developed by SM, through consultation with experts
povided by the Bank and UNDP, in September 1991 into the Shanghai Economic Reform
Acon Plan (SERAP). Ihe SERAP was subsequently adopted by SM as its guiding policy
framework and recogized by the Bank as a basis for its future operations in Shanghai.
hi light of (hina's changing icumstnces and growing experence, tie SERAP was also
recognized as a evolutionary (or living") document ftat would require amendment from
fime to dme as well as dtaed development. The Action Plan was furth refined at an
anniversary meig in Shanghai in Mrh 1992. Emphasis has now shifted to more
daed acfion planning by SM in the six priority subsectors with further UNDP and Bank
aiance. Progress on these subsector action plans and the overall Economic Action Plan
was rvwed by the Bank and SM in November 1992. Under the umbrella of SERAP,
four projects (two transport, one environment ana one industry) are currently under active
prepration for possible future Bank financing. Further details and discussion of the
SERAP may be found in Annex 1.
2.11        The SERAP contains several key actions relevant to the transport sector,
induding:
(a)   adjustng public utility tarffs with the medium-term objective of achieving
profitable, efficent operation;
(b)   analyzing the financial and opeational perfonnance of public transport and
adoption of a plan fo attaining financial self-sufficiency;
(c)   stgthening the authority and capacity of selected public utility enterprises
to be fuly responsible for their own planning, investment, operation, and
adminisaton, and their profits and losses; and
(d)   revising sector plans and policies to confonn to the revised Shanghai
Strategic Master Plan.
2.12        Mobility of labor and the development of a land market are also objectives
of the reform prgram. These will have a downstream effect on the transport sectr since



- 14-
they will change travel patterns and the demnnd for new facties and services. In
addition, SM is placing great emphasis on the development of Pudog, on fte east bank
of the Huangpu River (pam. 2.14). This development i seen, inter alia, as facilitting
entepris restructing, as wel as utban resgtctrng in thf, existng city center, and is
theefoe regarded as contrbutn direcdy to the economic reform progam goals.
2.13       The futue proces of reform in Shanghai has a dual signficanct. First, as
indicated above, the transformaton of the city itself is critically dependent on progress in
several areas which are at the cutting edge of reform in China (e.g., land and labor market
development, enterprise       , housing reform). Secondly, there are policy area
where, through conscious choice, Shanghai is set to emerge as a leader of reforms.
Crucial among these is the refonn of the public sectr and specficaly the infructur
sector. Shanghai's experience as a pioneer in a number of these policy are  can be
edxcted to establish models of market development, legal and regulatory fameworb and
instittional desin that will be of considerable influence in future policy formation at the
natal level and in or prvinces and cities.
C. MASR PLANNG
2.14        Shang's Urban Master Plan was approved in 1986, and a revised plan
now in prepation is scheduled for compledon in 1994. The main change to be intoduced
by the new Master Plan will be fte development of the Pudong Special Area and the
redevelopment of the old city, Puwd. The Pudong development entails developing some
150 km2 of largely agrculal land located on the east bank of the Huangpu River to
house a population of between 1.5 and 1.7 million in the year 2000, along with providing
between 0.7 and 1.2 million jobs, thus representing more than 10 percent of the whole
municipal area. On this greenfield site, SM aims to create a high-technology and terary
atvity centr that wil serve the whole Yangtze Basin. Major new port facilities will be
coupled with a free trade zone, rail access and a new international airport. The
development of Pudong is ewectd to encoumage firms to relocate out of the existing city
on the west bank of the Huangpu River, thus reducing densities and permitting the removal
of unsuitable industries fom the city center. Planning and development is proceeding at
a rapid pae (o      alrdy housed 800,000 iitants in 1990). An important challenge
for Shanghai in ensudng Pudong's sucess will be to manage growth in order to provide
the high-quality infrastructure required by this modern economic zone, and to maintain an
optmal development pattern taing into acount previous investments made in the western
area of the city, including the two satellite cities.
D. ROAD Sysm
2.15       Road Network. The urban road network in Shanghai is inadequate for a
city of its size, density, and importance. This has resulted from relative neglect over a
long period, with litle development of the network during the period between the 1930s
and late 1980s. The inadequacies of the network are now acutely apparent, highlighted by
the recent surge in economic development which has led to a rapidly incsing demand
for transport services, both for passengers and freight.



- 15 -
2.16        Wiffin the cental area, located eniely on the westn side of the Huangpu
River, the roads conform approximately to a grd pattern, but wnth a lack of continity 
the routes, pardcularly north-south, and a lack of consistency in road width and therefore
capacity of routes. Few roads are wider than 7 meters, and most streets are too narrow
to accommodate more than one lane of traffic in each direcdon (many can accommodate
only one lane of traffic). Roads occupy onlv about 5 percent of land area in the city
proper, a very low proportion compared with dther major cities in the world.
2.17        Zhongshan Road-along which the Inner Ring Road component of the
pect wil be loowed-acts as a ring road around the central area to the west and south
and north (Map IBRD 24983). The eastern secion currently passes along the west bank
of the Huangpu River and has been recently upgraded over the secion along the famous
Bund." Routes to the surrounding region fan out raally from Zhongshan Road. Many
of thee have ben upgraded recendy, or are being upgraded, including the main routes to
Hangzhou (capital of Zjiang Province) and Nanjing (capital of iangsu Pwvince), which
will eventualy be expressway standard.
2.18        Shanghai has developed pnncipally on the west bank of the Huangpu River
(uxi), but some development on the east bank (Pudong) has occurred, served mainly by
ferry sevices. The development of Pudong is now a key component of Sbanghai's
development strategy, and access to Pudong is being upgraded significantly (par. 2.14).
In 1988, cross-river access was supplemented by a two-lane tunnel under the Huangpu
River near to the city center. Access was augmented by fte twolane Yanan Road tunnel
opened in 1989 and the six-lane Nanpu Bridge completed in November 1991. Another sir-
lane bridge, the Yangpu Bridge, is scheduled to open in mid-1993. When both bridges are
Open to traffic, the ring road will be extended into Pudong.
2.19        Traffic Management. The existing road network in the city proper is
largely saturaed under the cunrent operatng environment. Competiton for the use of
lumited road space leads to serious conflicts between bicycles and motor vehicles, iesulting
in low average speeds, growing accident rates, and congestion on important road freight
and bus routes. Traffic congestion has increased sharply in the past two years with
grownng vehicle usage, so that vuhicle speeds rarely exceed 30 km/h and average only
10-15 km/h.
2.20        Wbile the program of new road construction, including the roads to be
financed under this project, will alleviate some of the traffic congestion problems, SM
recognizes that traffic management measures are required to regulate the flows on the
estng street network. Under SMTP I, and building on some early initiatives by SM, a
traffic management program was developed for the CBD.II Other features of the traffic
1/  Mhm overdl philosophy of the program was to segregate raffic, whero possble by sllocan specfic
streew to each of the ma vehicle classes-non ized (maily bicycles), buses, and other motzo
-and imothe' places by allocaing taffic to separte lanes along the samseet. Seg regation of taffic
i 6i way reduces the vehicle conflicts alog the stX and grty educ  trig cnfltct at
inescins.



- 16-
management plan included extensions to the traffic sial system, construction of
nonmotorized vehicle (QMV) routes, and improvements to the layouts and markings of
road intersecidons. This has been supplemented by construction of pedestian overbridges
and imposition of restri tions on trucks using city streets within and around the congested
CBD.
2.21        Implementation of the physical works under SMTP I for the traffic
management plan are expected to be completed by the end of 1994, two years ahead of
schedule. To date, 10 streets have been designated for exclusive NMV use and 13 streets
for exclusive motor vehicle use durig ceain hours. However, the maiw public transport
priority measures along the main north-south corridor through the CBD have been
superseded by the reconstruction worls along the Bund, and alternative schemes are still
in preaation.
2.22        The works achieved have undoubtedly improved the performance of sections
of the network. However, their impact has been softened by a number of factors:
(a)   Reaching agreement on the individual schemes has inevitably required
compromise between the different agencies. In particular, practical
consideraions of bus and trolley bus operaions and their requirements for
bus stops, term, depots, and (for ffolley buses) overhead cables, and the
demands for access for businesses and government offices, pose real
opertiug problems that cannot be swept away easily. Compromises have
therefore been required on physical scope and hours of opaion.
0)   Observation of trffic management regulatons, especially those with
restricted operating hours, is not good despite public education campaigns,
and the Shanghai Public Security Bureau (SPSB) does not have sufficient
staff for enforcement.
(c) Whereas motor vehicle traffic will tend to respect graffic engineering
measures such as lane marldngs, stop lines, tring lanes, and traffic
signals, NMV traffic is less easy to manage. The sheer volume of slow-
moving bicycles overwhelms many traffic engineenng layouts. Cyclists can
turn themselves into pedestrians by hopping off their bicycles and so, by
alternating modes in this way, can work their way through congested areas,
defeating the orderly intent of traffic management schemes.
(d)   Large numbers of pedestrans in streets with inadequate sidewalks tend to
spill over into the roadway, feeling protected by their numbers, and
interfeing with traffic flows.
2.23        Implementation of the traffic management plan is under the supervision of
SPSB, but has required the participation of several other agencies to agree the details of
each scheme, develop the designs, and prepare and conduct the engineering works.
Besides SPSB, these agencies include Shanghai Transit (SI) responsible for bus opertions,



- 17-
the Shanghai City Comprehensive Tanspor Plan g Institute (SCCPIP) resonsible f4r
taffic forcas, the Shanghai City Panning and Design Research In"stite (SCPDEU)
responible for taffic engineering design, and the Shanghai Muwcipal Engeering
Administration Dpartment (SMEAD) responsible for civil engineering deign. (An
inwagency gmup was formed to develop and help implement the trffic mangementplan
for SMP I and is being rened for this project.)
2.24        Despite the problemscited above, it can be said ftat traffic management has
taben root in Shanghai. Clely, much needs to be done to incra  user awaress of the
meauing and im ce of rad madrng and control measures, and th  work of
extending the scheme to comphensively cover the city sreet system must continue.
2.25        Road Safety. The incidence of taffic fatlities in Shanghai is high-10
times that of Tolyo-and is increang at about 9 percent a year. About 3,400 fatalit
were registred an Shanghai's road network between 1984 and 1988. Ihe high se of
fastlites is due to the large proporion of pedestians and cyclists at risk in the traffic
network and delays in providing first aid to accident victims.
2.26        Traffic SignS are used extensively throughout the city to regulate traffic
movements and promote safety. Unforiunately, their effect is limited by the poor
discipline of drivers and the problems of enforcement noted above. From time to ime,
SPSB mounts campaigns in the press and on television to educate road users on the
highway code and associated laws and regulations.
2.27        To imprve the monitoring of accidents and provision of aid to victims,
SPSB has developed a traffic saft improvement program with technical assistance during
prepation of SMTP I. The program is being established as a pilot effort in one disict
and is intended to be replicated later throughout the city. The accident analysis progam
has been esablished, but only limited progrss has been made in the deinition of remedial
measures.
E  PUBC  TRANSPORT SYSM
2.28        Public transport in Shanghai is a major undertaidng. Bus and trlley bus
services are provided largely by ST, and across the river by the Shanghai Muwicipal Ferry
Service Company. They handle, respectively, 15 million and 1 million passengers per day.
A 15 km subway (metro) line is under construction and is expected to open at the end of
1994.
2.29        Buses. ST runs one of the largest bus operations in the world. It employs
more than 84,000 workers and manages a fleet of about 6,500 buses. Bus routes are
extensive with 400 routes covering 20,300 route-ki;ometers in the metropolitan area
(Tble 2.3).
2.30        Buses are the princpal transportatiort mode in Shanghai and acoount for
56 percent of the nonwalldng person trips in Shanghai City, and 42 percent of such trips



- 18 -
in the whole municipality. The route network is dense, with some rue carrying
particularly heavy traffic; for example, the eat-west route Number 25 caries more hn
300,000 pasengers pet day. On the main north-south corridor, bus pasenger trips during
peak periods approach 30,000 per hour, and on several other major thoroughfareach
nearly 20,000.
2.31        The high density of bus mraffic and the level of congestion of the streets
presents ST with a  vere opang challenge. Despite wide spacing between stops, the
opeating speed of buses is low, avengng only 8 kn/h in the centr city, about the same
as bicyce  Bus services are vey frequent, with avesage headways of 3 minutes at the
peak period, and with many rout  opeatng at headways of 2 mdnutes or shorter. The
flow of buses at the peak pedod exceeds 50 buses per hour per direction on sever
secdons of the sta   network and exceeds 100 buses per hour in some cases.
2.32        ST's most difficult challenge is financial. The fincial condition of ST has
deteriorted to the point wher it now no longer has the funds required to renew its fleet.
Bus fare were not increased between 1949 and 1990, so that despite a doublig of fares
in 1990, farebox revenues stil cover only 70 percent of ST operatng costs (able 2.4).
Hence, Sroperations require an opratg subsidy from SM, as well as capital grants for
buildings and bus acquidtion.
2.33        ST Reform. i line wift SERAP (pan. 2.10), ST has begun to move
towards the segmentation oits actvity into several autonomous companies responsible for
their profits and losses, more fleible labor management, and eventual profitability through
fare increases.
2.34        This move sttred in 1988 and has resulted in the creato of six independent
compnies opeti  419 buses at the end of 1992 and tnsporting 230,000 passengers per
day (see Table 2.5). It has also eld in the crea    of three different subcontacted
suburban opeions to subsidiaries, the consolidtion of ST's industrial units, into one
single company. By the end of 1992,,98 percent of ST's personnel were contractual, and
1,775 had been taserTed to subsidiades puuing new diversified businesses.
2.35        In addition to this, a staged fire adjustment program has been formulated
with the objective of cove     operating costs from revenues by the end of 1993 and
restoring profit to ST by the ead of 1995. Fare incres is a senitive issue in the context
of Shanghai whee tansport cot are largdy subsidized by employers and where the is
an acdve competition betwe  bus and NMV as transport modes. Therefore, in panllel
with ST fare incse, ST is using the introduction of new bus routes operated at premium
fare by joint venture bus companies as oppoit  to raise the average fare throughout
the Shanghai bus network. Progress on ST restructuring and fare increases is discussed
further in Annex 2.
2.36        Ferris. Fery services are sll the dominant form of transport linking Puxi
with Pudong across the Huangpu River. They were the only services available to
pedestrians and bicyclists until the opening of the Yanan tunnel in 198'). which permitted



- 19-
bus traffic to cross the river. Fenies also handle heavy vehicle traffic. About 1 million
persons per day use the ferry service, which is only 5 percent less than the traffic observed
befote the opening of the Yanan Tunnel (Table 2.6). Congestion is not a major problem
for passenger service, but weather conditions sometimes interrupt service. Long vehicle
delays are common on some of the vehicle ferries.
2.37        Metro. SM has sted the construction of the first metro line and since
January 20, 1993, a 5 km long section has been undergoing test opertion with two train
sets. The completion and operational st of the entire first line (14.6 kan long and 12
stations) is expected by early 1995. This line will run along one of the busiest corridors
from southwest Shanghai to the new Railway Station north of Suzhou Creek, inersecting
the CBD at People's Square. The first line of the Metro will have a capacity of 40,000
passengers per direction per hour, and is expectei to cost approximately Y 4 billion at
today's prices. It has been financed partly with concessional loans provided by the
Govemments of France and Germany. Aithough the fare will be set at a level higher than
the existing bus fare, Metro operations wiil need to be subsidized by SM.
2.38        SM is currently carrying out a feasibility study of the second Line that will
run east-west from Hongqiao Airport to Pudong, crossing the Huangpu River in tunnel.
The construction of the first 16 kn phase of this second line is expected to start in 1995
and be completed in the year 2001 for an estimated cost of Y 6 billion.
F. TRAVEL DEMAD
2.39        Motorization and the Vehicle Fleet. The motorized vehicle fleet includes
about 229,000 vehicles Zable 2.7). Freight vehicles make up over one third of the fleet
(36 percent), and the remainder comprises cars (21 percent), motorcycles (20 percent),
buses (6 percent), and special vehicles (17 percent). Since 1986, the total motorized
vehicle fleet has been increasng at just under 8 percent per year. Cars, despite ownership
controls, have experienced the highest rate of growth at about 14.7 percent per year, with
private cars growing at 22 percent per year. Growth in the motorcycle fleet has been
subject to controls, but still averaged nearly 11 percent per year over the last three years
when separate records have been kept.
2.40        Bicycle Ownership and Usage. The NMV fleet comprises some 5.9 million
bicycles and about 0.1 million other vehicles (Table 2.8). The bicycle fleet represents a
fleet density of one bicycle for every 2.2 inhabitants, which is one of the highest densities
in the world. The statistics on the bicycle fleet have fluctuated in recent years, but the
total size of the fleet appears static.
2.41        Modal Split.  Car and motorcycle ownership and usage is low in
comparison with other Asian cities, but growing. Based on the most recent comprehensive
survey (1986), around 3 percent of daily trips are made by car and motorcycle, while
26 percent take place on public transport, 33 percent by bicycle and 38 percent on foot.
Current travel projections prepared by SCCTPI based on various forecasts of economic
growth over the next 10 years indicate no major changes to the relative values of these



- 20 -
modal shares, but the impa of new transport accssibility has perhaps not been fully
accounted for. Revised forecasts are being prepared as part of the technical asstce
under SMTP I, and using an updated and much improved transport forecasting model.
2.42       Freight Movement. Some 70 percent of domestic cargo generated by the
port of Shanghai is transported by truck. This amounts to 100 million metric tons
annually. The port handles 60 percent of all goods moving in and out of the Shanghai
Metolitan Region and accounts for 99 percent of its total foreign tade. Shanghai port
facilities generate 11,000 daily truck movements with the major concentration and
congestion at downtown terminals where truck traffic ranges between 700 trucks per day
(at Gaoyang) and 1,400 trucks per day (at Huishan).
2.43       Street access to downtown freight terminals is very narrow. Due to
congeston within the CBD, truck movements are restricted between 7 am. and 7 p.m.
Most trucks are banned dunng this period except for 25 percent of those registered by city
enterpses at are entitled to a special pass permitting access to the restricted area. Truck
restictions in the CBD area and the location of adequate crossings to the east bank of the
Huangpu River oblige trucks to use Zhongshan Road, which is the only continuous bypass
route with adequate road width and standards to accommodate trucks. The channelization
of trucks along the Zhongshan Road comridor is causing congestion and the need for urgent
improvement measures to avoid, inter aLia, blocking access to the port of Shanghai.
G. TRANORT Am TE UR8AN ENIRONMEr
2.44       Untl recently transport-induced environmental impacts were less severe in
China than in most developing countries due to the relatively low number of vehicles.
However, growing motorization as a result of strong economic growth, combined with the
prevalence of heavy vehicles based on outdated and polluting engine and fuel technology,
is now starting to make an environmental impact in many of China's larger cities. in
respowse to this, the Bank Group-financed Environmental Technical Assistance Project
(Report P-6056-CHA, May 26, 1993) will include a nationwide study on long-range
alternatives to control motor vehicle pollution.
2.45       Ihe high population concentration in Shanghai and the limited road space
in the city, characd by narrow congested roads, have exacerbated the impact of motor
vehicles. Although the number of motor vehicles (MVs) in Shanghai is still low for a city
of this size, the current congestion has resulted in air and noise quality degrdation
exceeding national standards in areas adjacent to major thoroughfares.
2.46       To mitigate the impact of vehicle-induced environmental degradation,
Shanghai has proposed several plans and policies to be implemented by the year 2000.
The proposals include (a) improvement and upgrading of the urban road network to reduce
congestion; (b) enforcement of national emission standards, and more stringent city vehicle
emission standards by the end of the century, including introduction of catalytic converters
and unleaded fuel; (c) installation of physical noise and air pollution control systems; and
(d) upgrading and development of the public transportation systems. In the longer term,



-21 -
impoved public tansport provision, taffic manaement and traffic engineering
capabilites, improved vehicle and fuel telo, and enforcement of more stingent
vicdle emision reguins, should improve air and noise quality. Plans for a vehicle
inspection and maintenance prgram, and for a stt   to oombat vehicle pollution, will
be devdoped under the project.
H. URBAN TWOR  JNmuno1s
2.47        Pive entities are prominent in the city's transportaion sector: (a) the
Plnning Commisdon, 0b) the Construction Commision, (c) the Public Security Bureau,
(d) the Finance Bureau, and (e) the Municipal Tnsportation Office. The Shanghai
Municipal Planning Commission is responsible for managing the city's resources, a task
that includes establishing overall deveopment policy and planning, developmlent budget
alocadon, and cat   secial project. It rports to the Shanghai People's Standing
Commitee. The Shangai Municipal Constuction Comnmision (SMCC) is responsible for
land-use planning, environmental protecion, and the design, construction, operadon, and
maintenance of the city's inrast    through various bureaus, divisions, and institutes.
Te Shanghai Public Secuity Bureau (SPSB) is rponsible for traffic mgement and
enfrcement. The Shanghai Finance Bureau (SFB) is responsible for municipal fiscal
affair  The Shanghai Municipal Transportaion Office oversees all trucking operaons and
nonroad transport enterprises. SPSB's Traffic nagement Division (ITD) is responsible
for traffic ehgineering, traffic safety, and enforcement of traffic regulations. '-
2.48        Since 1985, the Bank Group and various bilateal donors have provided
asstanc to Shanghai's effrt to (a) develop specific tools for intgated transport planning
ad analysis; and (b) introduce low-cost mangmt echniques and systems. One of the
reipients of this assitance is the Shanghai City Comprehensive Transport Planning
Insutte (SCCTPI), which was eablished in 1990 to be responsible for comprehensive
transportaion planning and research as well as the guidance and coordinaton of urban
soron planning. It teport to the Shanghai Municipal Construction Commission,
and is controlled by the Shanghai City Planning and Design Research Insitute (SCPDRI).
The assistance to the development of SCCTPI provided during SMTP I will be continued
as part of this prqect.
I. FiNANCING
2.49        While SM had difficulty raising capital and funding current expendiures for
uran services, efirtu have been made since the end of the 1980s to both increase the
amount of trasport infrastture financing and to improve coordinaton of vanous types
of transport investments. In particular, an etabudgetaiy revolving fund was created in
the late 1980s to channel new tax revenues and reflows into major infrastructure projects.
This fund evolved into the Shanghai Urban Construction Investment Company, which is
now respnsible for raiing funds to finance a large portion of the urban infrastrucure
Program.



- 22 -
2.50        Over the past years SM has slightly incmsed its fiscal revenues in both
constant terms and as a proportion of GDP, to 37 percent of GDP in 1991. Assuming a
more modest level of fisscal revenues collection of 33 peroent of GDP in the fuure and
assming actions to eliminate ST's deficit, a study under SMTP I found that SM's overall
proposed program for the transport sector seems teaistic despite the high investments
proposed in nuj tsportatin facilties during 8FYP. In 1995 the committed expenses
will reprent 11.4 percent of the fiscal revenues rtined in Shanghai and 2.6 percent of
annual GDP. In the year 2000, given continuig strong economic growth, the assumed
budget would reprsent only 7.2 percent of fiscal revenues retned in Shanghai and
1.7 pert of amual GDP (rabies 2.9 and 2.10).
2.51        User fees are a significant source of income and have a potential to finance
a gwwing pportion of investment needs. ST hopes to cover opting costs by 1995.
Besides bus and ferry revenues, other direct user charges are tolls on tunnels and bridges.
ToLs could become a major revenue source with the new crossings planned, equal perhaps
to 5 percent of the total annual transport investment. Shanghai levies other transport user
te including (a) a highway maintenance fee, (b) bicycle tax, and (c) other taxes on
vehicle and boat use. In total, these user fees yield a higher revenue than ST and ferry
fare.
2.52        LocAl renues may be enhanced by improved administration, new taxes,
and greater feliance on user fees and bofrowing. Land-use fees and annual property ax
repent a reatively untpped and buoyant source of revenue; it is estimated by Shanghai
Finance Bureau (SPB) that revenues increased by 20 percent in 1992. Regardless of the
sources chosen, the task of evaluating appropriate measures will be a complex one
rquiring extensive study and teing. With Bank and UNDP assistance, SFB recently
developed a reform plan and has entered into a thre-year technical cooperton agreement
with the Overseas Development Adm inision (UK) to assist in the modemrntion of
Shangai's municipal finance system.
J. SM MEDUM-TEM TRAN1       RT INVESM    r PROGRAM
2.53        The SM Medium-Term Transport Investment Program covering the period
of the 8FYP and 9FYP (1991-2000) is shown in Table 2.11. Total expenditures of Y 41
billion, or about $7 billion, are envisaged at the muniCMal level, with .-vestments
increasing from a cumrt rate of $300 million per year to about $800 million per year
during the 9FYP period. Additional expenditure on local roads is planned at the district
level. About one third of the program covers construction of the first two lines of the
metro, about 3 percent is allocated for renewal and expansion of the ST bus fleet, but the
rest of the program is for bridges and roads. The program includes completion of the
Inner Ring Road (to be financed under the proposed project) as the highest prionty, but
also includes completion of expressway links to the surrounding region, the highway and
major bridges comprising the Outer Ring Road, and other major routes in both Puxi and
in Pudong.



- 23 -
2.54        Given the priority attached to transport development by SM, and assuming
the availability of funds, the program appes achievable. If successful, these investmts
could damacally improve the transport tuation of the city. However, major difficultes
are faced in the provision of new highways in the congested city center, in particular the
very expensive Yanan Road and Chengdu Road viaducts. Moreover, it is not clear that
the justfication or full consequences of such massive provision of roads has been fiuly
worked though. Better transport forecasting and planning techniques are clearly a high
priorty to give qpert technical advice to the cty planners, setdng out the ibkely
consequences of proposed schemes, and estabLishing the priorities between competing
investments. This work will continue to be supported under the proposed project.
Assurances were obtained at negotadons dw SAM woulddfuirsh to the Bas, by June 30,
1994, the cwum SM mediun-tenn trasport invesnen plan, and annaly thereefter the
SM annual transpont ivestmnent plan.



-24-
3. TiE PROJECT
A. ORIGIN A   FORMULATION
3.1        Ihe Bank started a coLaboraton with SM on urban transport in 1988 when
the first Shanghai Metrpolitan Transport Project (SMTP I) was identified. That project
comprised three main components: (a) construction of a 5.5 kn section Qater extended
to 7.4 kIn) of the 1ner Ring Road (IRR), (b) a Traffic Management and Safety component
conevatrating on improving the road tansport system in the center of the city, and (c) a
technical as_siC program to assist project implementation and identify stategic tansport
needs, aimed also at asssting the prepaion of this second project. The project was
oved by the Board of the Bank in September 1991.
3.2        Eariaer in 1991, SM launched the Shanghai Economic Reform Action
Program (SERAP) with Bank support (see Chapter 2), and it was agreed that future Bank
lending to Shanghai should be linked to the implementation of SERAP. The main
nftructure manifesion of SERAP is the expansion of the City into the Pudong area
of Sla,  td on the east side of the Huangpu River. SM considers that a key
factor in developing Pudong is the improvement of transport across the Huangpu River,
which until recenty has depended on two road tunnels (one quite substandard) and ferry
services. To improve access, two major new bridges have been constructed with Asian
Development Bank support; the Nanpu Bridge was completed in 1991 and the Yangpu
Bridge further tD the north is programmed to open in 1993.
3.3        The IRR was previously located entrely in Puxi, but in order to integrate
Pudong into the City of Shanghai, the alignment was extended into Pudong via the Nanpu
and Yangpu bridges (see map IBRD 24983). The role of the IRR was thereby augmented
to provide the main artial access to Pudong in addition to its original roles of diverting
through-taffic away from the city center and providing a link with regional routes from
the surounding provinces of riangsu and Zhejiang to Shanghai Port. With this augmented
role, proected trffic volumes indicated an urgent need for upgrading the IRR; this was
te adopted as the main irastructure component of this Second Shanghai Metrpolitan
Trnsport Project To complement this component, it was agreed to extend the work of
SMTP I in city center taffic management, and to make investments in bus facilities for
Shanghai Transit (ST). Technical assistance for the project was developed to assist
developme- of traffic magement and transport planning; these are seen as elements of
SERAP. The project was formally identified in July 1991.
3.4         The project has been prepared by several Shanghai engineenng design
insdtutes with assistance from foreign consultants. Stage 2 of the IRR was prepared by
the Shanshai Municipal Engineering Construction Company (SMECC), the Shanghai



- 25 -
Municipal Engineering Design Institute, the Shanghai Urban Construction Desig Institute,
SCCTPI, and the  anjin Planning and Design Institute, with the assistance of consultants
funded by the French Consultant Trust Fund. The taffic management component was
prepared by SPSB, SCPDI, ST and SMEAD with the assistance of cosultants funded
under SMTP I. The public transport component was prepaed by ST. The project
preparation teans have been coordinted by the Shanghai Municipal Construction
Commisson. Feasibility studies for the prqect components, prepared by the agencies
indicated above, have been reviewed by the Bank Group.
B. OBJECTWN  AND RATJONALE FOR BAK INVOLVEMEN
3.5        The key objectives of the proposed project, in support of the economic and
social development of Shanghai, are:
(a)  to enhance economic productivity by improving the operational and
economic efficiency of the urban transport system; and
(b) to strengthen public sector management capacity by improving the planning
and management of the urban transport system.
3.6        The project represents a continuation of the program started under SMTP I
intended to upgrade and develop the urban transport infrstructure of Shanghai in order to
meet the demands generated by reform of the local economy. The project would
contribute to this program through the implementation of a package of road construction,
traffic management, and public transport meiuures that provide for travel demands in and
around the central area of Shanghai, and expand access to the newly developing district of
Pudong. The project would support the SERAP objectives of improving public sector
management capacity and facilitating commerce and trade, through assistance in sector
planning, and by support for the continued development and extension of the traffic
management strategy for the city.
3.7        The Bank Group involvement in the project is based on its commitment to
Shanghai to assist the process of economic development and reform (Chapter 2). A very
visible consequence of economic development is that Shanghai is now entering a period of
rapid growth in motorized transport, which can be expected to place great strains on
tranport infrastructure and on the entiaes responsible for the transport planning and
operations. A key rationale for the involvement for the Bank Group in this project,
therefore, is to bring outside experience of transport planning and management to bear on
the particular issues and problems facing Shanghai. Bank experience is particularly
important in five key areas: (a) stra   transport planning of multimodal tansport
systems, (b) impacts of motorization, (c) public transport operations, (d) traffic
management, and (e) transport envionm tal issues.



- 26 -
C. DESC R IION
3.8        The proposed project is envisaged as having four main components:
(a)   Constuction of the Inner Ring Road (IRR) Stage 2;
(b)   Traffic Management and Safety;
(c)   Investments in Public Transport; and
(d)   Technical Assistance.
mner Ring Road (IRR) Stage 2
3.9        This comprises construction of 21.8 km of the IRR between the Nanpu and
Yangpu Bridges, on either side of the 7.4 km viaduct being constucted under SMTP I, to
complete the IRR in Puxi. This prqect is considerd by SM to be their highest-priority
new road investment and is included in the current five-year plan. The design of the IRR
Stage 2 follows that adopted for the IRR Stage 1 financed under SMTP L A dual two-lane
viaduct is to be constructed generally over an existing ground-level road upgrded to
provide dual two-lane camageways for motor vehicles, plus two exclusive nonmotor-
vehicle lanes each 4 m in width, and two footpats each 4.5 m in width (see sketcb in
Chart 1). The southwestern section of IRR Stage 2, between the southern terminal of the
Stage 1 works near Yanan Road and the Nanpu Bridge, follows the existing alignment of
Zhongshan Road. The northern section of MRR Stage 2, between the norn therminal of
the Stage 1 works at Hutai Road and the Yangpu Bridge, initially follows Zhongshan Road
to just north of its junction with Guangzhong Road. From here the ERR tums east and
follows a new alignment to join Huangxin Road where it crosses the Zoumatang CreeL
The IRR then follows the existng Huangxin and Ningguo Roads to Yangpu Bridge. (See
map in IBRD 24983.)
3.10        Connections between the viaduct and the primary or secondary road network
shown on the Shanghai Master Plan are provided by interchange at Lu Ban, Wanping,
Ling Wu, Caoxi, Wu Zhong, and Yanan Roads on the southern section, and at Gong He
Xin, Siping, and Ningguo Roads on the northern section. Three-level interchanges are
proposed at Caoxi and Gong He Xin Roads. Intersections between the ground-level road
and side roads would generally be signal-controlled. The layout of the IRR junctions,
including location and ramp provision, was reviewed in detail during preparation and the-
final design reflects agreements reached.
3.11       The project would finance only the viaduct civil works, imported steel and
bitumen, and equipment; the ground-level works are being constructed in advance of the
project by SM. Upgrading of the ground-level roads under the viaduct began in Febuary
1993 with completion scheduled for December 1993, shortly after viaduct construction is
planned to begin.



-27 -
Traffic Maag     t and Safety TMS
3.12        This component aims to extend the TMS component of SMTP I from the
CBD to the wider cental area within the Inner Rig Road. The objective of the TMS
component is to guide the development and implementation of a comprehensive tansport
maagement strategy which: (a) allocates available and planned road space between modes
in an efficient manner, (b) provides for the safe use of bicycles in the city center,
(c) intgrtes the street tetwork in the city center with planned cross-city arterial roads
(including the IRR) by defining an apropriate hierchy of roads intescting the new
roads, and (d) increaset the efficiency of the street network by improved intersection
layouts and provision of taffic signals. It comprises three main elements:
(a)   a tfc  signal program to expand the coverage of the existing area taffic
contol system;
(b)   establit of a road safety center; and
(c)   a taffic nementprogram to develop and implement an integrated series
of low-cost traffic engineering and management measures within the area
bounded by the IRR.
3.13        Area Trafic Control (ATC). The ATC component would extend the
currnt Area Traffic Control system beyond the current CBD into the Zhabei and
Changning districts of Puxi. The component comprises (a) two district control centers that
would be instled in existing buildings to be acquired, refurbished and equipped under the
project, (b) traffic  ignals for 70 intsections, (c) traffic monitoring equipment,
(d)  ommuons ystems, and (e) signing and marldng of intersections.
3.14        Road Safety Center. A Shanghai Road Safety Research Center would be
established at Xn Zhuang with four main objectives: (a) to provide facilities for a
rsearch program into road and traffic conditions in Shanghai, (b) to build on the work
started in SMTP I on an accident analysis and remedial measures program, (c) to provide
suitable equipment to test and train drivers, and (d) to develop the expertise for targeting
road safety problems.
3.15        Traffic Managemr t Program (M . The design and implementation of
a traffic management program for the city center was started under the SMTP I project,
including measures to improve intersection layouts and establish pronty routes for public
twport and NMVs. The TM? under this project would extend this work to a wider area
of the city.
3.16        In contast to SMTP I, the traffic management subprojects were not prepaed
by apprisal. Instead, it is intended to implement the TM  on a program basis, with
subprojects being identified, designed, and implemented during the course of the project,
under the direction of the interagency design team established in SMTP I. The TM?
woud ue the fiamework provided by the outline Traffic Management Stategy Report



-28 -
produced by the Shanghai City Planning and Design Institute (SCPDI) m March 1993 to
develop the subprojecs (IBRD Map 24984). These subprjects would be designed to
improve the opeatdonal and economic efficiency of the city road network and complemt
the investment in the MRRand other SM investments in arteial roads pror ed in the
8FYP and 9FYP. Takien together, they would support a trnspt policy seeJdng to
increase the attiveness of public tnsport and NMV usage as a means of lowing the
rapid growth in motorcycle and passenger car ownershp and usage. Candiat subprojects
would focus on:
(a)   building missing NMV links and bridges;
(b)   creation of NMV routes parallel to motor vehicle (MV) routes by removal
of bottlenecks, traffic engineering measures (signing, lining, bariers and
channeliztion) along routes and at juncdons, and traffic signals to control
conflicts between NMVs and MVs;
(c)  *neasures to improve bus priority along routes and at junctions, to improve
passenger safety and opating efficiency of the exing bus network, and
to provide the basis of a bus priority network; and
(d)  improving the operonal efficiency and safty of MV routes.
3.17       The interagency design team would be assisted by consultant services under
SMTP I and futher technical assistance (TA) under this project  Oudine Terms of
Reference for this TA are given in Anne 4, which would be furnher refined following the
complion of the TA under SMTP I. In this way, development of the progrm  would
benefit from experience gained in the implementation of the traffic management component
of SMTP .
3.18       Implementation of the TW  would be phased, and subproject pacges
would be prepared and submitted to the Bank for approval at intervals. The cteria for
subproect selection have been defined and include submission of an economic assesment,
engineeing design, bidding documents, environmental assessment and/or environntal
action plans (where appropriate), and resettlement action plans for the Ba's clearance
(Annex 3. Assurancs were obtained from SM at negodations at subprojects to be
included in the TMP would be selected, designed, and impemd in accolance with
criteria andprocedur satisactory to the Bank, as specified in Annex3 to this SAR. EFac
subproject for the TM?P wuld require approval by the Bank prior to disbursement.
Public Transport (PI) Investments
3.19        This component comprises construction for operton by Shanghai Trnsit
(SI) of two bus depots (at Yinhang and Caobao) and one bus terminal at Caxi. Both
depots would be located in fast-growing suburban areas of Shanghai, would have a parldng
capacity of 400 buses, and would include a maintenance workshop. The depots would
serve bus routes lining the suburban areas to the cental city. Yang Depot would be



-29 -
locad on a 70,000  e ame ste in d  Yagpu District in the norieastern suburb of
Shanghai, and would serve the needs of the Ist Bus Company. This currendy has a
parking plaoe deficit of more than 200 buses, which is estimated to incra  to about 450
buses by the end of the yea 1995. Canbao Depot would be located in the southwesten
subuwb of Shanga, and would be similar in size to the Yinhang depot. It would serve the
expansion needs of the 2nd Bus Company, which cunrently has a paridng deficit of 100
buses, over the next tee year. The depots would use a standard design well-known by
Sr and no difficulties are anticipated for the engineering feasibility of these depots.
3.20        Th Caood Interchange would be located near the ramps of the IRR at Caoxi
Road in the southwest of Shanghai.  This interchange would facilitate passenger
interchange between bus routes, in particular between suburban and urban bus routes, and
between buses and the new metro now under construction. It would also relocate the
terminas of eight urban and suburban bus routes, moving some from their present on-street
locations at are a cause of taffic congestion. An extension of this interchange is being
tdied by ST in connection with the planning of a future large-size stadium in the vicinity,
but the extension would not be financed under the project.
3.21        ST Reform  Technical assstance is being provided under SMTP I to assist
SM in prepang an action plan for the reform of ST. The work is being organized in the
following tsks:  (a) enterpris  operational management (covering the regulatory
framework  mgement,  perations and finaces of ST), (b) equipment needs,
(c) opertoalq   planng, (I- training, and (e) preparation of a program for reform.
Assuances wer obtinedfron SM at negotiatons that, taking into account the,findings
o he techncat atsisance proIded wider SMTP 1, SM would prepare a time-based and
cosed program for the  ofbm of ST. and dtereater take appropriate steps to implement
It In consulaon with the Bank
Technkcal Assistance
3.22        The Technical Assstance (TA) component is intended to extend the
instituonal development program initiated under SMTP I. Since that project is still under
implementatin, with many of the TA components commencing in 1993, the TA
components of the two projects must be seen as an integrated program. Five areas of
assstance are included under the proposed project, and oudine TORs are provided in
Annex 4.
3.23        Project         N _tSupport. This subcomponent would provide for 15
person-months of consultant sevice to SMECC, starting in early 1994, building on the 25
person-month assstance in SMTP L It has two aims: (a) to expand the scope of training
provided in SMTP I to include more SM staff and more advanced project management
techniques, and (b) to provide specalist advice on an as-needed basis on key technical
issues in connection with the IRR Stage 2 construction. Foreign expert participation in
constrction supervision would otherwise be reduced from the levels in SMTP I, based on
the genrally high quality of work normally achieved by SM.



- 30-
3.24        Tric Magement Support. Provision of 15 person-months of technical
advisory services to s&rengn te roles and capabilities of SPSB, SCPDRI, and other
agencies responsible for the desin, implementaton and enforcement of traffic
management, with particular emphasis on traffic engineering, road safety, and priorities
for NMVs and buses. This subcomponent is programmed to commence in mid-1994,
following completon of the traffic management TA component under SMTP I, and the
TOR would be further developed following that work.
3.25       Tasport Panng Support. Support for transport planning has been a
major focus of the SMTP , with two main areas of assistance: (a) TA to support the
tansport modelig capability of SCCTPI, and (b) TA funded by a grant from the French
Government to support stategic planning and feasibility studies. Both these TA items are
now being extended with substantial additional funding, both from the French Government
and fromSMTP I  ject funds. The TA in SMTP I is also being extended to provide a
Trnsporaion I*foimaion Center to be attached to SCCTPI to provide modern facilities
for monitoring and analyzing traffic volumes and developing a transportation data base.
Under the proposed project, approximately 8 person-months of advice and taining would
be provided to SCCTPI in the use of this data base for transport planning, project
appraisal, and the definition of investnent priorities. The outline TOR provided in
AnnA 4 would be refined, based on the outcome of the transportation planning TA
component under SMTP I.
3.26       Paveme  Mnageme system Development. This activity would extend
the support for road maintenance started under SMTP I, which provided for the purchase
of equipment. A Pavement Management System (PMS) has been developed locally at
Tongi University in cooperion with SMEAD, and pilot application of this PMS
undertaken. This TA would provide 4.5 person-months of training and technical advisory
senices to enhance this PMS, and for the development of a program for the general
introduction of PMS following the pilot scheme.
3.27        Environmental Action Pla Support. Twelve person-months of assistance
and advice would be provided to SMECC and the Shanghai Environmental Sciences
Research Institute (SESRI) on the interpretation of the restlts of the environmental
monitoring for the ERR, on the mitigation actions to be taken, on prepartion of a plan for
vehicle inspection and maintenance, and for preparation of a staged strategic plan for
reducing motor vehicle emissions (see Section D below).
D. EroNmoMr
3.28        An environmental assessment (EA) was prepared for the proposed IRR
Stage 2 by the Shanghai Environmental Sciences Research Institute (SESRI) during the
pei  November 1990 through June 1991. Ihe document was approved by a select
committee of experts from the National Environmental Protecdon Agency (NEPA) and SM
in June 1992. The EA was later supplemented with an additional study of the northeast
portion of the proposed alignment (Guangzhong Road to Songhuajian Road) to provide
additional information at the request of the Bank.



- 31 -
3.29        While the BA provided by SM generall add     the Bank requirm ts
for environmental analysis, it did require strengthening in some areas. This is to be
epected consideing that motoration is in its early stages in China, and insufficient
experience in taffic forecasting and environmental impact assessment has accmulated for
these issues to be tackled at the same level of detail as In the industialized world. These
fact  are partcularly relevant in Shanghai where, as one of tie very largest metropolitan
regions of the wodd, these questions are pardcularly complex to analyze. in view of this,
foreign epert assstance was proviJed during the prepation of the project foed on the
development of three documents: (a) an Environmental Action Plan (EAP) that identifies
approaches for mitigating impacts during the-construction and operation of the IRR, (b) an
Envirmental Monitonng Plan (EMP) that sets out the basic famework for monitoring
environmental impacts both dunng and following construction, and (c) a preliminaiy
Emergency Response Plan (ERP) that oudines the existing and required capabilites needed
for the prevention of, and response to, emergencies on the IRR. These documents also
outline the organzatonal and financial requirements for implementing the plans. These
documents are discussed further in Annex S.
3.30        In assessing the impacts of the IRR, the EA considered noise, dust, social
and traffic disruption during construction, and potential elevation of vehicle pollutant
levels, vehicle noise, and social impacts after project opening. Regarding impat during
constucto, standards for construction opemtions have been specified concerning hours
of opein  and handling of marials. SM has learned much during the construction of
the IRR Stage 1 under SMTP I; as a result, site management, and traffic management on
affected teets, is now much improved after some initial problems.
3.31        Regarding environmental impacts after IRR opening, Shagi is densely
populated and any road project will cause some disruption of communites. By aligning
the ERR along the e ing  ng road, already a busy arterial for the most part, potential
severace of eisting communities has been minimized. These impacts would be more
noticeable in the northeast section of the proposed alignment since this area is for the most
part currently inaccessible to traffic. Also, the IRR viaduct for its entire length will be a
significant feaure of the city landscape, and the increase in traffic capacity provided will
reinforce the arterial naure of the IRR corridor.
3.32        Traffic volumes, and resulting vehicle pollution and traffic noise, are likely
to increase in the future even without the MRR, being driven by the strong economic growth
and increase in motorization in the region. The IRR will undoubtedly increase tffc
volum  further, but the inresed ar pollution from these additional vehicles should be
more than offset by reductions in unit vehicle emissions brought about by higher tffic
speeds in and around the IRR corridor compared with no project. Noise levels can be
expected to increase with higher traffic speeds caused by the project, but countermeasures
are proposed in the EAP, including sound barriers, noise absorptive paving in critical
secdons, and sound insulation for buildings.
3.33        A significant resetement pamis required for households and enteWrprises
displaced by the project; this is discussed in section E below. Regarding the numbers of



- 32 -
rentaining residents outside tfie right-of-way affected by noise and pollution, it is difficult
to arrive at precise estimates due mainly to the analytical liitations discussed above.
Hence, monitoring of acal impacts, as set out in the EMP, is an important feature of the
project and could lead to changes in the EAP. Assurances were obained from SM at
negotiadons th  the envromenta monitoring program set out In the EMP, and the
environmenta protecton measus sdpuaed In the HAP, would be Iplemented in a
manner satifctory to the Bank.
3.34       While the increase in tffic peeds brought about by the IRR should reduce
overall vehicle emissions compared with nto project, air pollution from motor veldcles is
likely to become an incmresingly serious problem for Shanghai. The EAP specifies a
number of approaches to reducing vehicle emissions further, including improved vehicle
inspection and maintenance procedures, use of fuel additives, and a change to less-polluting
fuels. Some of these measures may require a national initiative; to this end, the Bank will
be working with China on approaches to controlling motor vehicle pollution in the
Envirownental Technical Assitane Project (P-6056-CHA), which is expected to start
implementation during FY94. Additional actions have been specified as part of the EAP
under the proposed project, as follows:
(a)    pon of a time-based and costed plan for implementing a vehicle
inspection and maintenance (VIM program; and
0b)   development of a time-based and costed strategy for reducing damaging
vehicle emissions.
Asurances were obtained from SM at negotiations that SM would prepare a time-based
and costed plan for Wlemening a VIM program, and a time-based and costed strategy
for reducing damaging vehicle emissions, fumish them to the Bank by December 31, 1994
and thereater take appropriate steps to implment them in consultaon with the Bank.
3.35       Recognizing the relive inexperience of Shanghai in analyzing the
environmental impacts of motor vehicles, and to assist in the implementation of the EMP
and EAP, technical asstance for these purposes has been formulated; outline terms of
reference are presented in Anex 4.
E. LAM ACQUImON AND RESrnMErT
3.36       The project requires the resettlement of some 6,372 households, 21,920
people and 564 enterprises, the majority of which are associated with the construction of
IRR Stage 2. The amount of resetflement required irn this project compared to SMTP I is
commensurate with the relative physical size of the two projects.
3.37       Although the amount of resettlement in this project is considerably larger
than that in SMTP I, it is still small in comparison with the overall resettement program
in the city, which has grown rapidly over the past 20 years. Annual resettlement has
increased from 2,260 households during the early 1970s to 30,000 households in the



- 33 -
1990s, mosdly due to the needs of the urban housing redevelopment proam. SM
esdmates that betwn 300,000 and 400,000 households need to be resetted as part of
housing improvement progams in the remaining years of this century. Resetlement
caused by urban infatucte prects has been relatvely small, compising about 12.7
percent of total households, but the restement program for the MRR would increse this
proporton sgificantly.
3.38        Experience with resettlement on SMTP I has been excellent. In a recent
completed Bank review on resettlement experence in China, the peromance of urban
resetement in China was considered as very good [China. Involumrs y Reselement In
China (Report No. 11041-CHA), World Bank, June 8, 19931. Oveall, relocated urban
residents in China have been wompensated generously, and the resettemnt process has
been handled by experienced resettement exprt. Monitoring of Phase 1 resetement for
IRR StaDe 1 showed that it had been carried out according to the agreed schedule, eept
for a delay in connectig gas to the new apartments. Resettled families were at this stage
gerally saisfied, although some were experiencing an increase in commuting ime. The
commuting time increases imposed on resettled families under the proposed project have
been reduced in comparison with SMTP I by increasing the number of restement sites
made available. Further details are given in Annex 6, which also provides details of Bank
Group experience with resettement on other projects in Shanghai and elsewhere in China.
3.39        Resettlement Action Plans RAPs) have been prepared by SM for the IRR
Stage 2 and for the public transport investnent component. The RAPs have been reiewed
and are acceptable to the Bank. RAPs for ail subprojects identified under the TMP would
be required to be submitted to the Bank as part of the approval process. Annex  provides
a detailed discussion of the resettement under the project, and the resetdement poLicies,
procedures and pactice of SM. At negotadons awurac   were obtinedfrom SM  at
a land acdston and reseaemm activiis and monitoring of resettkment wth respect
to the project wuld be coktpleed according to the RAP In a maner satfactory to the
Bawt
F. Cosr ESTES
3.40        The proposed project is estimated to cost a total of Y 3,746 million, or $657
million equivalent, including physical and price contingencies, as summarized below and
detiled in Anne.  Base costs, which include land requisition, reement,
administon, and engineeng overheads, are estmated in August 1992 prices. Physical
contingencies are calculated at 10 pernt of the base cost of works and goods. Price
contingencies have been calculated for both foreign and domestic costs, using the current
Bank annual escalaton factors.i/ The estimates are provided net of taxes.
Foreign    4.4%   1.3%  1.2%  2.4%  3.2%  3.4%  3.2%  3.3%  3.4%
Domodic    7.0%  10.9%  7.5%  6.0%  6.0%  6.0%  6.0%  6.0%  6.0%



- 34 -
PnonCr Cosr SUMMARY
(August 1992 prices, Y S.70 = $1.0)
Y milliom       _    aintLn         poreou  cost
Component                1Al  Porv4   Total  loctl Poreum Total of tot"l (2)
A. loner Ring Road       1,309.4 1.467.7 2,777.1 229.7  257.5  487.2    53
D. Traffic Esansemnt and
Safety                 118.0   75.6   193.8  20.7  13.3  34.0        39
C. PubUtc Tranport
Invesaenta              97.7   67.3   165.0  17.2  11.6  29.0        41
D. Technical Asaisteac      0.0    6.5    6.5   0.0   1.1   1.1    100
Dota Ease Cost      1.2S.1 1,617.3 3.142.4  IIZA   283.7  SS1.3    jX
Physical Contingenclso     93.6  103.2  196.8  16.4  16.1  34.5         52
Pruce Contongencloo       311.9   94.6  406.5  54.7  16.6  71.3         23
Total  oect Cost SW 1.9S 6 1.81.1 3.Z4S.7 LI  )J         6.ZLL
3.41        The esmated costs for the IRR Stage 2 are based on work quantites
caculated from deailed dess ad unit prc  computed on the basis of SM standard
manuals for consuctio  cosng. The estimated costs of the Trffic Management and
Public Transpor components are based on quantities calculated from  preliminary
engineeng desi and standard umt costs. The Tecuical Assistance costs are based on
recent contracts for similar consultng servces.
G. JmNaN
3.42        The lank lo   of $l50 million woud  preent about 23 percent of the total
pr*ect cost or about 47 percent of the foreign exchange cost  SM  would prvde
$507.1 million equivalent to meet the remining costs of the project, including
coningencies. Unde    wee reached with the Government at negoftiaons that it
would onlend the procoeds of the loan to SM on the following tems: 20 year, including
5 year of grace, at the same re as ta payable to fte Bank by fte Borrower. SM wOuld
bear the commit fee on the outstanding balnce and fte foreig  exchange risk  A
summary of project finandng is shown in the table on page 35.
HE JIWMETATnON
3.43         An implemenion schedule, and project  ngement arrangements for
implementation, are shown in AnnMz8. Arangement for project implementation would
be similar to those dev ped during th. implemention of SMTP I, which are worldng
satisfatorly.  Overall directo  of the implementation of the proect would be the
responsibility of the Leading Group for Shanghai's major engineering projects. SMCC
would be the implementing agency, with SMECC as the Project Implemenion Unit
(PM). SMECC would have project management responsiblity for the overall project and
speific day-to-day  nsibilit for the IR Stage 2 and the Project Management Support
technical assistance.  Agencie  of SM  under the PIUs overall direction woWd be
responsible for the other components.



- 35 -
SUMMARY FRNNC1NG PLAN
($ million)
sm        IBRD     Total     S of total
A. Inner Ring Road               440.8    133.8    574.6           87.4
B. Traffic Maagement and
Safety                        38.4       6.5      44.9          6.8
C. Public Transport
Investments                   27.9       8.6      36.5         5.6
D. Technical Assistance            0.0       1.1        1.1         0.2
Total Pro1ect Cost          507.1    lS0.0    657.1         lOO.Q
3.44        Under the Pqect Management Suppo  TA included in the prQject,
ianagement cons unts would be retained by SMECC to advise the PIU and to asi them
in developing and expanding the scope of the computer-based project management system
tablished under SMTP I. The consultants would also expand the scope of the tmning
provided in SMTP I to include a larger number of SM staff and more advanced project
management techniques.
3.45        Ine Ring Road Stage 2. This component and the related resettement
would be implemented by SMECC. A number of SMECC engineers and construction
inspectors worked on IRR Stage 1, and received training in project manent and
constucio supervision from consultants financed through the TA component of SMTP I.
These staff would be used as much as possible on IRR Stage 2. Constrction supervision
on each IM  viaduct conson contract would be under the direction of an Engineer
Representative from SMECC with additional inspection and supeisory staff provided by
supevisio  companies who ar reitered and approved by the Shanghai Municipal
Construction Commission. Spedalized experts would be provided on an as-needed basis
under the Project Management Support TA (ara. 3.23)
3.46        SMECC has provided a schedule for the construction of IRR Stage 2,
indicatng all works to be completed in December 1994, as follows:
Demoliion                     - September 1992 to April 1993
Utlit Relocation              - March 1992 to November 1993
Surface road improvements     - February 1993 to December 1993
Viaduct construcion           - October 1993 to December 1994
Suring, signing, lighting,
TV monitors and other
ancillary works             - October 1994 to DeceLnber 1994
3.47        The IRR has been deignated Shanghai's No. 1 project and as such will
receive the highest priority m the city works program. SM have a reputation for



- 36 -
compltng major civil engineering proects to very tight schedules. For the purposes of
costing and defining diursement schedules, however, a four-year construcdon program
has been assumed. This is stil much shorter thm normal for China, as reflected in the
standard Bank disbursmnt profile, but should be achieved, if not exceeded, by SM.
3.48        Traffic Management and Safety. This component would be implemented
by SMEAD and SPSB over a four-year period. Civil works, including consruction/
widening of NMV and bus priority routes, and junction improvements would be managed
by SMEAD. Insallatonm of taffic signals, signs and road markings, and implemenn
of the Road Safety Center, would be managed by SPSB Traffic Management Division.
3.49        Publlc Transport Investments. This component would be implemented by
ST over a three-year period, including all civil works and installation of equipment. One
of the depots would be ready for constructon in ate 1993 and the other in 1994. The bus
tminal at Caoxi is exetead to be ready to start constuction in late 1993. These projects
have been swected from the ST investment plan for the period 1994-98.
3.50        Technical Asistance. Consultants are required to provide training in
project mgement, use of Area Traffic Control and Pavement Management System
equipment, and computer data bases for tnsport planning. Consultants would also be
required to provide technical astance to the implementing agencies, and to provide
assistance for sector planning. Tlhese s   have been included in the project cost
estimates, and are summanzed in A=  A.
L. PROcuEMaw
3.51       Procuement under the project would be carried out as shown in the table
on page 37.
3.52       The procurement arrangements for the project have taken intro account the
experience gained from  the previous Bank-financed projects.  The procurement
documentation, including that for prequalification of contractors, and for both Internatonal
and Locl Competitive Bidding (ICB and LCB) for civil works and goods, has recently
been standardized for Chinese conditions in a cooperation between the Chinese Government
and the Bank The model documentation will be used for all relevant procurement
processes under the project. All intetional procurement would be undertaken by the
Shanghai Intenational Tenderng and Import Company (SllICO) in associaton with the
Beijing-based Intonal Tendering Company (lTC).
3.53        Civil Works. Except as specified in paras. 3.55-3.56, contracts for civil
works would be procured under ICB. There are 11 ICB contracts under the IRR Stage 2
component for viaduct construction with a total estimated cost of $231.5 million. To
facilitate coordination of viaduct construction with surface road improvement work, the
viaduct contracts would be divided at Shanghai district administrative boundaries.
Contracts would average about 2 km in length, ranging in cost from around $16 million



- 37 -
o nsmq' SuwARY
($ nmilon)
_ rocuromen e thod
ICa      LC3   Other    NIP         Total
Inner Ring Road             231.5     31.2      0.0     38.8     301.5
(86.9)   (11.7)    0.0      0.0      (98.6)
Other components              0.0     15.8     11.2IA    1.9      28.9
0.0     (5.9)    (4.2)     0.0     (10.1)
Goods and Materials
Inner Ring Road              33.8      1.8      0.0     16.5      52.1
(33.8)    (1.4)    0.0       0.0     (35.2)
Other components              0.3      0.0      5.4&    0.9        6.6
(0.3)    0.0    (4.7)       0.0      (5.0)
fnMineerina and Administration  0.0      0.0      0.0     34.8      34.8
0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Consultants. and Trainin        0.0      0.0      1. L"    0.0       1.1
0.0      0.0     (1.1)     0.0      (1.1)
Lw >cAqugggeltioa and           0.0      0.0      0.0    232.1     232.1
segettlement                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Proiect            65.6    .4M        17.     325.0    657.1
1121.Q)   ll9.0)   10.01    0.0    (150.0)
NBF = Not Bank-financd.
la Force account.
lk $2.2 million by Limited n aonl Bidding, $3.2 million by Local or Intenional
Shopping.
Lg Proment of consultants according to Bank guidelines.
Notes: (1) Figures in parentheses   nt the amount financed by the Bank Group.
(2) All figures include cnignis
(3) R b amed that all civil work undek the TMS component ($10.0 million)
would be by force account.
to arnd $36 million. Qulified domestc contracs would receve a 7.5 percn
preference in bid  auatin on ths contrcs



-38 -
3.54       Because of the accolated schedule for completing tie IRR Stage 2 that
required an early start on land aoquisition, resetdement and pr4mratory work, civil works
for demolition and utility relocation, and for the construction of the ground-level roads,
are not included in the project for Bank financing.
3.55        Other civil works of value less than $10.0 million, including those under the
IRR Stage 2, TMS and Public Transport Investment components, would be awaded under
LCB procdu  acceptable to the Bank. All these contracts are relatively small in value
and are not considered to be attractive to foreign fims; however, foreign firms would not
be precluded from bidding. ICB would be neither jusdfied nor pratcal. Five contacts
tWoing $31.2 million would be required for the IRR Stage 2, for the instllation of
lghfting, power supply, signs and lines, and monitoring devices, and for the construction
of an administration builig. Two contcts costing $6.9 million and $8.9 million would
be required for the public transport investnent component for the Caobao and Yinhang
Dep. Some civil works contracts under the TMS component could be awarded under
LCB procedures, but since this component will be prepared during prqect implementation
(para. 3.16), contact sizes and amounts are not yet known.
3.56        Small ,ivil works contracts costing $2.0 million or less would be caried out
by force account, as in SMTP I. The Caoxi bus iterchange under the Public Tzansport
Investment component, estmated to cost $1.2 million, is included in this category. Also,
small civil works contacts will be prepred during implemenion for the TrAfic
Management Plan under the TMS component, including construction of NMV and bus
priority routes and bus interchanges, traffic managent road and junction improvements,
and sig and markings. Force account is considered the most appropriate approach, given
that individual works are smal in value while complex in their requirements, including
improvements to existing facilities, and are likely to be widely dispersed through the
Cer Area. The total amount of force account contacts under the TMS component is
esimated at $10.0 million; however, as noted in pan. 3.55, contract sizes are not yet
known and some contracts might be large enough to warrant LCB.
3.57        Goods. Contracts for goods, including matials and equipment, would be
awarded under ICB, except as noted otherwise in this pargraph. This includes steel and
bitm    for the ERR Stage 2, to a total value of $30.3 milion, supplementing steel and
bitumen to the value of $16.5 million supplied from SM stock, and computer equipment
for the traffic safety center estmated at $0.3 million. Maintenance equipment for the IRR
Stage 2 would be procured partly under ICB under two contacts totling an estmated $3.5
million, and party under LCB following procedures acceptable to the Bank for equipment
in aggregte amount esmated at $1.8 million. For the Area Taffic Control under the
TMS component, impord signal controllers, telecommunications, computer and
monioring equipment would be procured through Limited Intemational Bidding from
supplier whose products are compatible with the existing ATC equipment, in an aggregate
amount esimated at $2.2 million. AU other items or groups of items covering minor
maintenance equipment, equipment for laboratories, research and environmental protecdon
purposes estimated to cost less than $200,000 per contract package, in an aggregate amount
edmated at $3.2 million, would be procured following shopping procedures on the basis



- 39-
of a comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Bank Guidelines for Procurement. Domestic muf s competing under ICB would
be eligible for a margin of preference in the comparison of bids of 15 percent for goods,
or the prevailing custom duties, whichever is lower.
3.58        Consultant Services. Consultants retained for the project would be selected
according to the Bank's "Guidelines on the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. e
Local counterpart staff would be assigned from the various SM agencies to work alongside
the foreign consultants.
3.59        Demolition, Utiliy Relocation and Resettlement. No activities associated
with these items are financed under the loan.
3.60        Advance Contracting. Construction work on the urgently required IRR
Stage 2 viaduct is scheduled to commence in October 1993. Advance contracting has been
requested by SM, with retroactive funding up to the limit of $15 million based on
10 percent of the proposed loan amount to cover initial payments to contractors and
progress payments during CY1993.
3.61        Bank Review. Contracts for works exceeding $10 million, contracts for
goods (including equipment and materials) exceeding $200,000, and all contracts for
consultant services would be subject to Bank prior rMview. This represents about
82 percent of procuement of the Bank-financed portion of the project. All other contracts
would be subject to ex-post facto review.
J. Ds sMr
3.62        The proposed IBRD loan of $150 million would be disbursed over a period
of four years, as follows:
(a) Civil Works
1. For Subprojects
under the TW      $2.9 million   38 percent
2. Other             $91.0 million   38 percent
(b) Goods: equipment
and materials         $38.5 million   100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100
percent of local expenditures (ex-factory),
and 75 percent of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
(c) Consultant
services              $1.1 million   100 percent
(d) Unallocated         $16.5 million
lTa           $1.110 million



- 40 -
3.63       To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would be opened with an
inital depst in US dola of $15 miUion, the dmated avenge expenditure for a four-
month period. The account would be oped in a bank acceptable to the Bank, and
manad by the Shanghd Municl Fiance Burau. Apphcotions for replenishmet of
the Speial Account would be submitted monthly or whenever the Special Account is
drawn down to 50 percent of its inital deposit, whichever comes first. A schedule of
esmated dursem      given in Annz 9 indicates a significantly shorter expenditure
pedod ta shown in the China profile, for the reasons discussed above (par. 3.47).
-3.64       Disbursements would be made against preed contr   for the civi works
and for the delivery and insllation of the equipment. Interim cerification of civil works
completd and costed at unit rates in the contcts woudd be prepared by the Supervision
Team, and payments authorized by SM1CC. Total retroactive fnncing of up to $15
million woud be applied to expendi  for civil works contrct for the IRR Stage 2
(pam. 3.6Q), made after December 31, 1992. Disbursements for staff taining in China
or abroad would be made against the actu  costs of travel, subsistence, and taining fees.
For exend   relating to contracts for works, gr Ms, and services valued at $200,000
and less, reimbursement would be made on the bas of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
Documentation supporting SOEs would be retineG by the implementng agencies and made
available for review by the Bank supervision missions.
R. AuDTING
3.65       The Foreign Investment Audit Bureau of the State Audit Administtion
(SAA) would be responmble for auditing the accounts of proect eenditures. Actual
audits woud be conducted for SAA by the Shanghi Municipal Audit Bureau (SMAB), a
suorinate organization of SAA. These arrangements are being used for the Shanga
Sewea  Project and SMTP I, and are consideed s y  for this project. Assuances
were obtained from the Borrower and SM that they would cause the project accounts, the
Special Account, and SOEs, to be duly audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank, and would submit them to the Bank within six months of the close of each financial
year. In the case of SOEs, the audit report would contain a separate opinion by the
auditors as to whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the
procedures and interal controls involved in their preparation, can be reied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
L. SU     SON, REPORTING AND) MONnRoNG
3.66       The project would be supervised through Bank missions whose frequency
would be guided by the progress of the works. It is anticipated that missions would be
mounted at intrvals of about 6-12 months, but shorer intervals would apply during project
str-up. In addition, the Bank would monitor progress of implemention of all proect
components through quarterly progress reports to be submitted by SM. It is estimated that
over the implementation period of the project the total time expended on supervision would
be of the order of 64 staff-weeks. AnnMm     sets out the pwposed Supervison Plan, and
Annl ecifies the projec t monitorg indices. Regarding reporting requiremens, the



- 41-
format of the quarWly progress reports would follow that developed during the
implementation of SMTP I. This format includes paramete  for progress monitoring
purposes. A Project Compledon Report would be prepred and subnutted to the Bank not
tihan dsix months after the loan closing date.



-42-
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. ECONOMIC RATIONALE FOR ROJCr DEIGN
4.1         Economic growth in the Municipality of Shanghai is creating rapid growth
in the demand for transportation. Several factors contribute to th result. First, grownng
personal incomes lead to growth, at a higher rate, in the demand for personal mobility.
Second, at higher incomes, residents are likely to reduce their percentage of walking trips
(cunrently over 35 percent of all trips) in favor of cycling or trips by motor vehicles.
Third, transportation of goods and raw mateials for local industry, and of consumer goods
for the local population, will increase along with growth in output and personal income.
Fourth, growth of through-traffic from Shanghai's hinterland to and from the port will
likely increase faster than income growth due to the increasing openness of China's
economy. Finally, Shanghai's population will continue to grow, albeit at a slow rate. The
location of most new employment and new housing for these new resdents will be in less
densely setded parts of the city, outside the urban core. This wil resut in longer trips to
work, requiring some ldnd of vehicle trsport, reinforcing the trend towards a reduction
in walkdng trips.
4.2         Shanghai already has serious tffic congestion due to its very low
percentage of road space and the limited crossings of the Huangpu River and the several
creeks within the city. Recently, SM has embarked on an ambitious program of transport
investments, after decades of very slow transport network expansion. It will, nevertheless,
take several years to reverse the trend toward increasng congestion, and this result cannot
be accomplished simply by building more roads. A balanced system of physical
investments will be required including investments in roads, rapid rail transit, and buses,
and these physical investments must be accompanied by an active traffic management
strategy.
4.3         The economic rationale underlying the physical investnents in this project
is threefold. First, the project creates an inner ring road around the central city in Puxi,
linking up with the two new bndg-i across the Huangpu to Pudong, thereby relieving
congestion on the main corridor for through traffic and on existing river crossings, and
drawing trffic from the inner city to reieve congestion there. Second, through traffic
management, the project will increase the priority of buses, catng efficiency of use of
the inner city street by increasing the new NMV routes and by partally segregating
bicycles from other traffic. Third, the project provides depots and interchanges to pemit
extra trips to be made by bus, and more conveniently. Thee investments will serve to
increase the efficiency and profitability of the Shanghai Transport Company, the provider
of bus services, and facilitate its reform and corporatizaion in accordance with the
Shanghai Econtomic Reform Action Plan.



-43 -
B. P1tojEcr BEMnM
4.4         Trffic congeaon remains a major impediment to efficient production and
a high quality of life within tie city. Without the project's improvement in tie priority of
bus transpot and the resulting commercial benefits to STC, it would not be possible to
substitute bus ridership for prsent or future bicycle taffic. Bicycle traffic, increasingly
motorized and polluting, would absorb an ever-increasing portion of the scarce road space.
lTus, the very Slow speeds and long delays in the inner city network could not be relieved.
Without the futher development of NMV routes and segregted NMV lanes, it would be
difficult to improve trffic safety and motor vehicle speeds, including bus speeds on motor
vehicle routes. One could thus predict a continuation of the vicious circle: slower buses,
more bicycles, sill slower buses, still more bicycles, and so forth. Serious personal
injuries in traffic accidents between bicycles and motor vehicles could be exected to
ine  from their already high rate.
4.5         Without the project's investment in the Inner Ring Road, truck taffic would
soon  uate the secton of that road serving the main freight traffic to Shanghai's
hinterland (i.e., the traffic moving from northeast to southwest of the city). Furthermore,
there would be no through link in Puxi to the new river crossing to the north of the city,
the Yangpu bridge, and only an outdated and congested link to the new river crossing to
the south of the city, the Nanpu Bridge. More generally, without a complete ring road in
Puxi, traffic from Pudong and traffic from other provinces would be slowed, and would
unnecessarily traverse heavily built-up areas on a system of inadequate small roads, even
when it had no business in the centrl city.
4.6         With the project, taffic will be somewhat relieved. The acceleration of bus
prtioritiZatio and the improvement in the performance of STC will help to halt the growth
of bicycle traffic and may begin the process of mass substitution of buses for bicycles.
Creation of NMV routes and further segregation of bicycle and motor vehicle traffic will
allow greater motor vehicle speeds, and improve the safety of cyclists. The Inner Ring
Road wil provde a complete bypass on the northen and westem fringe of the city to
traffic from Pudong and from the port that is bound for destinations to the south and west
of the city. It will similarly allow traffic from the southern river crossings, the Nanpu
Bridge and the Da Pu Tunnel, to bypass the city toward its westn hintr land. Traffic in
the buldt-up areas of Puxi will therefore be less congested, because it will not compete with
thro  traffc  on ordinary city roads.
4.7         The Inner Ring Road will draw traffic from the central network by providing
a fase altenaive for parts of many trips to and from the city, and even for some trips
with ongin and denation  i the centrl city. This will provide partial relief ', the city
network, resuldting in a small but economically significant improvement in speeds for a
very large number of trips within the central network. The inner Ring Road will also
improve the intgration of Pudong and Puxi by providing a fast distributor and collector
road at the Puxi terminus of the bridges across the Huangpu. This wil allow exceUlent
communication between destinations in Pudong and origins in the fast-growing northern



v-44 -
and southern edges of the built-up area in Puxi, without the need to travetse tie city
center, either from the Yarn tunnel or along the heavily congested north-south coridors.
C. ECONOMIC RATEs OF RETWRN
4.8         The economic rae of return for the Inner Ring Road component, which
comprises 90 percent of the physical works of the project, was calcuated using 1993 prices
in Yuan and adjusted to  ft  economic sadow values. According to the regula
govemning road development in Shanghai, there is an associated cost for the development
of housng, commercial and indus     ace and related infrstructur  to replace hie
bildings that are destroyed to clear nights of way. Stndards for these new buiding and
infiastrctre are considerably higher than those of the buildings that are demolished. That
is, the new construction is not strictly replcem ent, but rather rlacement plus
ipovement in both space and quality standards. An estimate of the actual value of the
buildings destroyed, rather than te cost of their 'replacement as shown in proect cos,
has been used in the evaluation of the Inner Ring Road's economic retun. This is
consistent with the Bank Group's practie in economic analysis, which focuses on the
benefits and costs attributable specfically to the project.
4.9         Benefits from the Inner Ring Road were estimated as the savings in
operating cost (VOC) and time costs with the project as compared to the situation without
the prqect. Details of the benefit/cost calculations are included in Annex 12. The mijor
benefit strm comprise: (a) VOC savings and time cost savings for present traffic on the
nner Ring Road, compared to the more congested case without the project; (b) VOC and
time cost savings for the growth in taffic on the Inner Ring Road, compared to the cost
they would incur on alternate routes without the project; and (c) VOC and time cost
savig (n the central road network, compared to the more congested case without the
project where growing tc in the Ring Road corridor would have to make its way
through city streets. The benefit streams in (a) and (b) were directly estimated (see
Annex 1J and together they form the benefit stream used in the numerical calculations of
the rate of return. The network effects, potentially the most important ret   to the
project, cannot be estimated without a robust model of speeds and flows throughout the
system. Since no sch model is available, these benefits have simply been omitted. This
obviously imparts a conservative bias.
4.10        The traffic management component of the project will conist of a series of
subprojects identified and evaluated during implementaion. Although present calculation
of mtes of return is therefore imposible, the main benefit and cost streams can be
identified so as to contribute to economic judgments. First, it is intended that the many
small investments usually associated with traffic management will be concentratd to
support spefic corridor improvements in the rest of the traffic manement component.
Their costs will (properly) be included with other costs in evaluating these corridor
improvements. Second, within a few corridors, mutually reinforcing investments will be
sought with the aim of finding a practical solution to the problem of mixed modes. For
example, the draft stategy for traffic management prepared by Shanghai contains two
bicycle bridges across Suzhou Creek and the improvement of two bicycle routes of several



- 45 -
kIlometers. This is expected to clear bicycle traffic from two paallel streets and tfieir
bridges, which will bocome motor-vehicle-only roads, and from an additional street that
will become a busway. Should such a corridor scheme be carried out its economic rate
of return could be very high, since the conmavely minor cost of bicycle bridge and way
improvements would lead to lar  percentage increases in the speed and throughput on the
busway and motorways, and to  eatly increased safety for bicycles in the coridor.
During implemention, Shanghai will prepare feasibility studies and econonuc analyses
on each series of reated subprojec, for approval by the Bank before implementation.
4.11        As shown in Annex12, the calculated economic rate of return for the Inner
Ring Road is 20 percent for the road investment taken as a whole. Both the northern and
southern sections, considered separately. have retumns in excess of 12 percent. It should
be recalled that these estmates exclude benefits to traffic inside the road; only Ring Road
traffc benefits were included. The isk of lcwer-than-anticipated economic rates of return
derive largely from the possibilities of cost overruns and from delays in project completion
(that is, delays in benefits) after significant costs have been incured. Both of these seem
unlikely on the basis of exwperience with the ongoing trasport project in Shanghai, which
is nearly conforming to a very ambitious schedule and is being completed at a cost
considerably below estmtes. Calculations in Annex 12 show that a 20 percent cost
ovefrun, or a doubling of the exected construction period, would still produce rates of
rewn  nsiderably above the cutoff rate of 10 percent.
D. PRtojDr RaSuS
4.12        Delays In Iner Rhig Road Viaduct Construction. The risk of long delays
in the completion of the Inner Ring Road viaduct is very small. This project is the top-
prority road investment of Shanghai. Furthermore, a very similar project (nner Ring
Road Stage 1 under the SMTP I project) is under way, and the minor delays and
difficulties in its implementation have clearly provided useful lessons. For example, the
delays in sufaice works and trail roads in the Inner Ring Road Stage I delayed the start
or reduced the efficiency of the sevea viaduct contractors; for this project, the surface
works are already wel advanced and they should not be a delaying factor. Nevertheless,
there may be some delays compared to the ambitious schedule of construction suggested
by Shanghai and used in the economic analysis, tat is, completion by the end of 1994.
As stated above, a two-year delay in the completion of the project ardly conceivable in
view of the project's priority) would lower the economic rate of return by about three
percentage points, from 20 percent to 17 percent.
4.13        InadequateTrMc Enat Viaduct Interchanges. With the heavy
emphasis on construction, in other road infrastructure projects as well as this one, there
is a risk tht inadequate attention will be paid to the surface traffic engineering works and
minor investments needed to realize the full benefits of the ring road improvements. The
road network feeding and draining the viaduct is weak; severe local congestion near
intercanges, where the surface network will suddenly face a multiplied local demand,
would not be surising. This proect attempts to minimize this risk by providing for the
more obviowus traffic engineering measures in the immediate vicinity of the Inner Ring



- 46 -
Road. Furhermore, Shanghai has a stmng record of response to problems as ftey
develop. It is to be ex   that  wiftfin a  irly hort period, say one year after project
compledon, the nWor emerging bottlenecks in the road system supporting the IRR wil be
eliminated. If so, the effect on the project's economic rate of return will be insignificant,
although the temporary and unpredictable traffic snarls may be serious.
4.14        Inadequate Ring Road Capacity. Considering the current and recent
growth rates in the economy of Shanghai, and the plans for the rapid development of
Pudong, road traffic in the Inner Ring Road comdor may grow much faster than
anticipated at the time this project was identified. There is a clear risk that the Inner Ring
Road will once again experience serious congesion in the fairly near future. In a purely
formal sense, this would imply very high returns to this investment. The discounted
benefits, were the Inner Ring Road to be fully used witiin a few years, would be huge,
considng the complete grdlock and very high costs that such growth would imply for
the "without project" case. More practically, however, the early congestion of the
improved Inner Ring Road would indicate that the wrong investment was chosen, and
would demonstate (regrettably in retrospect) that a higher-capacity alternatile would have
been preferable. While this risk must be recognized, there are several reasons for
tolerming it. First, the altenative opposite risk-to build improvements in the Inner Ring
Road that turn out to be too large, and therefore economically wasteful-would tie up
scarce capital during a time when Shanghai is booming and many high-value investments
are available. Second, congesion may not materialize in spite of very rapid growth
because of complementary investments. The first stages of the Outer Ring Road, for
example, will be completed in 1995. Similarly, major tffic management improvements
are envisioned (some financed in this project) for an interior series of streets roughly
paralleling the Inner Ring Road. Finally, Shanghai is showing itself capable of extremely
rapid response to twansport bottlenecks. If congestion threatens the Inner Ring Road,
Shanghai is capable of conceiving and implementing a complementary investment in short
order. This is in sharp contrast to some other Bank experiences, where an investment
might deliberatly be overbuilt because of the difficulty of gearing up to implement an
additional project, should it be needed.
4.15        Inadequate or Delayed Traffc Magement Measures. It is not clear that
Shanghai fully aWreciates the importance of traffic management and of achieving greater
separation between the growing motor vehicle fleet and the noniotorized vehicle fleet, in
part because serious congestion is a relatively recent phenomenon. This project is intended
to finance several investments in support of traffic management activities, and there is
scant isk that Shanghai will fail to complete them in good order. In the larger picture,
however, the overall traffic maagement program may attract insufficient attention and
financing in competition with more visible infucure investments. Were this to
happen, there is a risk that the specific traffic management investments under this project,
laclkng the complementary investments of a comprehensive system of traffic management,
would have reduced benefits. It is worthwhile to accept this risk, and include these
components in the project, in order to give impetus to traffic management activities.



-47 -
S. AGRE EMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1        During negotiatons, agreement was reached with the Borrower that it woud
onlend the proceeds of the loan to SMO under the following terns: 20 yean, including
5 years of grace, at the same rate as ta payable to the Bank by the Boower with a
0.75 percent per annum comitment fee on the outstanding balance (par 3.42).
5.2        During negoions, agreements were reached with SM that:
(a)   SM would furnish to the Bank, by June 30, 1994, the cufrent SM medium-
term transport investment plan, and annually thereafter the SM annual
tansport investment plan (par. 2.54);
(b)   subprqjects to be included in the Traffic Magement Program (TMP)
would be selected in accordance with criteria and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank. Each subproject for the TMP would require approval by the
Bank prior to disbursement (pam. 3.18);
(C)  taking into account the findings of the technical assistance provided under
SMTP I, SM would prepare a time-based and costed progam for the reform
of ST and tnfter take appropriate steps to implement it in consultadon
with the Bank (par 3.21);
(d)  the environmental monitodring pro&am  set out in the Environmental
Monitoring Plan, and the environmental protection measures stipulated in
the Environmental Action Plan, would be implemented in a manner
satsactory to the Bank (paa. 3.33);
(e)   SM would prepa  a time-based and costed plan for implementing a VIM
progam, and a time-based and costed strategy for reducing damaging
vehicle emissions, would furnish them to the Bank by December 31, 1994
and  eafer take appropriate steps to implement theem in consultation with
the Bank (Pam 3.34); and
(f)   all land acquisition and resettlement activities and monitoring of resettlemnt
with rewect to the project would be completed according to the
Resettement Action Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.39).
5.3         Subject to the foregoing, the proposed project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of $150 million to the People's Republic of China; the term would be for 20 years,
including a grace period of five yeas, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



*48 -
Tabb Ll: PMMARY Cr= IN CAMW            1
Population
-millions)       Urban       Urban        ODP/hab. t Y )
City "ad  City      area     pop. deneity   City and City
Counties  ProperIa  (lm)      (hab.Ikm')    Countte  Proper
Shoanhai       12.87     7.53     254        29,646        6,663    7,7S5
BeiJing        10.40     5.93     397        14t685        5,174    6,979
Tianjin         8.77     4.61     336        13,720        3,849    4,799
Guangshou       6.02     2.95     182        16,209        6,421    8,788
Shenyang        5.74     3.65     186        19,624        3,825    4,362
Wuhan           6.77     3.32     191        17,382        2,841    4,048
Choogqin      14.93     2.29      99        23,131        1,551    3,534
Harbin          5.27     2.46     156        15,769        2,771    4,071
gbngshou        5.79     1.11      72        15,417        3,604    7,289
Chabuchu        6.43     1.70     114        14,912        1,748    2,935
China --
479 Cities   727.51   346.02  13,792         A5,088       2,163    3,0S7
/A Nonagicultural popui  only.
Note: Sttistc differ ftom thfos in Oana Sdstical Yearbook, 1992.
Somre: Cana Ciy SUacal Yearbook IM12.
Table 2.2: SKANGRAL   PRojzcrD popELAUON AND DLysmrr
Pouulaion t'0001               Rmloyment E'00o0
Year                 1990            2000            1990            2000
Urban                9,643LA        11,0001k        6,025            6,668
duburban             5,191           5,600          3,450            3,802
otal           14.834          16.600          9,471           10.470
Mobile               2,000           2,200           1,805           2,000
Resident.           12,834          14,400          7,670            8,470
La Iuding 1.9 milion unregstered populion.
&  Including 2.2 million umegistered pop on.
Soure:  SMTP I, C4 Identification of Uitan Trasport invement Prorities, CS
Prefasibility Studies SCCrPI and BCEOM, 1992.



-49 -
Table 2.3: SEnAumaL PMIC TIANSrFU Rw, 1981-91
Lenath   Number    Amnual
Number of Vehicles        of Bus   of Bus   Pas.mger
Year          Total   Bus"    TroUsy    Route         Rout..    Volume
Qal)                (million)
1981         3,974    3,269        705       5,291     236        3,685
1982         4,189    3,374        81S       5,428     247        3,842
1983         4,456    3,616        840       6,854     268        4,109
1984         4,703    3,835        868       7,019     276        4,555
1985         5,036    4,153        883      10,138     297        5,010
1986         5,505    4,579        926      14,146     331        5,185
1987         5,859    4,899        960      15,780     348        5,542
1988         5,988    5,027        961      17,443     368        5,599
1989         6,087    5,187       900       17,368     372        5,509
1920         6,264    5,341        923      18,593     390        5,437
1991         6,562    5,628        934      20,275     408        5,695
3 Change -    65.1    72.2        32.5       283.2   72.9          54.5
(81-91)
Sow-e: Shangh&W Stadss    Yerook 1992, p. 446.
Tabl 2.4: SRANGin[  SIUNGEUI TRANsrr (SI) FRUNCLAL STATAIMCS, 1986-92
(Y million)
Parebou         Financial         Operating         Farebox
Year       Revenue           Subsidy            Cost            Ratio (t)
1986    289.88            30.46             320.34             90.49
1987    315.39            83.05             398.44             79.16
1988    322.79            132.20            454.99             70.94
1989    327.76            250.00            577.76             56.73
1990    581.70             95.50            677.20             85.90
1991    611.30            187.00            798.30             76.58
1992    636.08            297.00            933.08             68.17
Sowe:  ST, ad Bus Tanhawpado In Snghal: Stopplg Oh Decy, Ridwd Dabm
and Berad MXO  1989.



-50-
Tabk 2J5: SUANGHIE   JOINT VwMmu BUS CONPANIES, 992
Daily                         Number of         Vehicle
w_.               passengers         Staff          Routes            Pleet
Guam Zhong           19,000             83             3                30
Great Wall          23,000              116            6                42
min Nu                6,000              60            2                35
Sao Rua              17,000             135            6                63
Zhong Iu            49,000             312             6                91
8BC                116,O00             518            18               158
ZTaal         230.000           IL&24            41               419
Source. ST.
Table 2.6: SHANGNAL    URY FLu= Am PASsEGER NUim
Number of                            Iqual
Year                       Ferry Boats                       Passener Trips
(million)
1981                           107                                 253
1982                           106                                 261
1983                           103                                 284
1984                           105                                 316
1985                           103                                 345
1986                           105                                 362
1987                           107                                 370
1988                           115                                 379
1989                           122                                 359
1990                           126                                 374
1991                           125                                 359
Sawe: gS ghai  5anl   Yearbk, 192.



-51 -
Table 2.7: SHANGEA   MOTrO VE,CLE FIM  1981-91
Freight           Pass. Motor-   Other              Private
Year        Vehicles  Buses  Cars  cycles Vehicles  Total  Care IA
1981         39,338    4,758  7,238    n.a.   28,852    80,186       0
1982         40,548    5,075   7,104   n.e.   29,497   82,224        0
1983         42,338   5,613   7,992   n.e.  29,497   85,440          0
1984         44,90S   6,162  9,356   n.a.   29,881    90,304         0
1985         54,095    7,707  18,334   n&a.    58,104   138,240   5,128
1986         60,651    9,110  24,224   n.&.  63,717   157,702  13,376
1987         64,906   10,071  29,851    n.e.  70,349   175,177  21,205
1988         71,860   10,851  33,052  32,884   45,649   194,296  28,401
1989         75,034   11,586  37,150  36,865   37,781   198,416  31,554
1990         79,139   12,379  41,523  40,057   38,721   211,819  33,412
1991         83,621   13,485  48,095  44,748   38,892   228,841  36,685
Vehicle per
category in
1991 (I)       36.5      5.9   21.0   19.6    17.0    100.0   16.0
Annual
Increase
1981-91 (X)     7.8    11.0   20.9        -      3.0      11.1
1986-91         6.6      8.2   14.7   10.81k  -9.4         7.7   22.4
Notes: (1) Private Cars are already included in fte category Passenger Cars.
(2) Motorcycle Annual Increase is averaged over the period 1988-91.
Some: Shanghai Public Security Bureau.



-52-
Table 2.8: SlAUNGDUA  NONIIWIO VZaICz (NMfV) lmRt 1981-91
Year                      utcycl .       Other NW!          Total
1981                     2,022,197         53,839         2,076,036
1982                     2,342,087         68,580         2,410,667
1983                     2,672,889        115,989         2,788,878
1984                     3,115,854        128,682         3,244,536
1985                     3,687,690        149,162         3,836,852
1986                     4,237,311        139,274         4,376,585
1987                     4,764,406        145,124         4,909,530
1988                     5,671,491        111,517         5,783,008
1989                     6,654,243         97,947         6,752,190
1990                     5,438,918        103,648         5,542,566
1991                     5,850,675        107,405         5,958,080
Vehicle per cat.-
gory In 1991 (2)            98.2            1.8             100.0
AuxA3l 1ncrmwe (2)
1981-91                      11.2             7.2             11.1
1986-91                       6.7            -5.1              6.4
Sowwe: Shanga Publc Securt Bureau.



.53 -
Table 2.91: SHANGHAU fuCBICu   FNtSCAL RuvmNquS
(1990 Y milion)
1990    1991    1992     1995      2000
Gross Regioal Product (ORP)    74,467  79,753  90,355  122,242  202,300
Fiscal Revenues                   26,287  29,735  29,796   40,340   66,759
Fiscal Revenues/ORP (1)             35.3    37.3    33.0      33.0     33.0
Fiscal Revenue Retained in
Shanshai                        15,787  19,900  19,883   28,238   46,731
2 retained In Shanghai              60.1    65.9    66.7      70.0     70.0
Fiscal Revenuse to Central
Government                      10,500  10,135   9,913   12,102   20,028
Sowr*: SW?P 1, TA CA/C Final Repoa, SCCTPI and ECEOM, 1992.
Tabk 2L10  SKANElALv AUOCAnON OF RzsouRcIs iN mI  TRANSPONr SbwrOR
(1990 Y milion)
1990    1991    1992     1995      2000
STC Deficit                           96     174     261      967       967
Road Investments                      77     708     702    1,430    1,430
Road Maintenance                     295     421     439      544       720
Metro Line. I and 2                  525     743     250       269      269
=oal                           M9   2.046   1.652    3.210    3.386
S of Fiscal Revenues in Shanghai   6.3    10.4       8.3      11.4      7.2
Z of GRP                             1.3     2.6     1.8      2.6       1.7
Nte:  Investment cost figures difer fmm those of updated investnent progam shown
in Table 2.11.
Sowtx: S?TrP 1, TA C/C   nal Rpoom, SCCTP and BCEOM, 1992.



- 54 -
Table 2.11: SHANGH    EDIUM-TZRM TRANPORT INVMMRMET PROGRAM
(Y million)
1991    1992  1993-95      97TP    TOTAL       aMS
Bridges and Tunnels
A  1       Tanupu Bridge                     480     38S      466         0    1,332      7.50
2       ORR River CrossagS                 0        0      300    2,700    3,000      0.00
3       Yanf Roda tunnel                   0        0      600         0      600      3.00
4       Ancllary Roads                      0      10       30        60      100      0.00
Subtotal                    480     395    1.396    2.760    5.032    10.50
Pasoengpr Rail
a  1       go. I Metro                       412     605    1,526         0    2,543    14.60
2       No. 2 Matro                        0        0      500   10,500   11,000    30.00
Subtotal                     12     605    2J026   10.502   13.543    44.60
city R11g Eoads
C  1.1    IRR Stage 1                        142     177       371        0      690      5.50
1.2     IRB Stage 2                      243      623    2,206         0    3,072    23.70
1.3     IR  Pudong                        30       90       90         0      210     7.20
1.4     ORB                                0        0      100    2,900    3,000    89.00
1.5     Bnoa>^ Road                        0       90        3         0       93     3.60
Subtotal                    415     980    2.770    2.900    7.00   129.00
North-South Routes In PwUX
2.1     Wasong Rd Stage 2                 32       20        0         0       51      1.54
2.2     Zhongahan No. 1 d (E)              0      60        0         0       60      0.80
2.3     Zhongehan No. 2 Rd (E&S)            0     120      250         0      370      2.06
2.4     Jiangu Road viden                  0       57       51         0      108      1.65
2.5     ChengdU Road Viaduct               0        0    1,500    1,000    2,500      8.00
2.6     Other N-8 Links                    0        0      300       150      450     0.00
Subtotal                            257    2.101    1.150    3.539    14.85
Beat-West Routes in PuzL
3.1     Zhoujlazui  R4. widen              0        0      187         0      187      2.38
3.2     Xujiahut Rd widen                  0        0      145         0      145      1.63
3.3     Zhaojibagl Rd                       0       0       50         0       50      4.00
3.4     Yanan Rd. viaduct                   0       0      400    1,100    1,500      8.50
3.5     Otber 3-W Links                    0        0      200       200      400     0.00
Subtotal                      Q       Q       9      1.300    2.2l8     16.51
Puw Interchanges
4.1     Caoxi L/C                         32       11       17         0       59      1.40
4.2     Kujiahul underpass                 7       13       10         0       30     0.84
4.3     Wencaobang Br. Stage 1             10      30        6         0       46     0.97
4.4     Wencaoban8 Br. Stage 2             0        0       94         0       94     0.97
4.5     GuanDXIn ROad l/c                   0       0      110         0      110      1.14
4.6     Other ped/NMV brdga                 0       0      100         0      100      0.00
Subtotal                     49      54       337        O       439     5.32
Other Roads In Puni                            5       5       190        0       200
miv  yste In Puzi                              0       0        50        0        50



- 55 -
Table 2.11: (cout'd)
(Y million)
1991   1992  1993-95     9pm   TOTAL        INS
Rloads sa  Brid.. In Pdoug
D  1       YIgsad WU"                      110    606        0        0      716   24.22
2       -/h lads 3                       5      50       55        0      110     7.00
3      3.jIsg   Rd                       0       0       60       25       85     6.50
4              Rood                      0       0       60        0       60    4.20
S       J      Rld                      10      40        0        0       50    3.20
6              Aos   11dlIc             0       0      142        0      142    0.00
7      LoAgyag ad l/c                    0       0      110        0      110    0.00
a      Other oads, Pudoug               30    173       524    1,273    2,000     0.00
9      Other loads, Pudoea               0       0       80       64      144    15.00
10     Rio  tech sou rds                 O       0      140        0      140   20.00
Subtotl                   lSS     869    1.170   L3        La    L A124
leglonal Eprsesays
1.1    Najlng-sbsngh                     0      S0      660        0      710   25.40
1.2      j1ia PFreeway 1                 0      80       82        0      162     7.71
1.3      ajla lressay w                  0      20      131        0      151    6.18
1.4    Nougqiao Road                     0       0      100       50      IS0    6.00
1.5    Shbagsai-vsngzhou                 0       0       84      700      784    28.30
subtotal                    g    in    L.AU7        750    LnZ    fLJI
Regional Clas 1 Roads
2.1    Natal Rd                          0      30      170        0      200    28.80
2.2    Buqlngpslg Rd                    72    164       113        0      350   53.95
2.3    No. 5120 Highway                  0       0      220        0      220   30.00
2.4    Xldu Bridge                       0      So      150        0      200     1.83
Subtotal                   72     244      i1_        Q      22Q   114J.8
Regional Cl.SO 2 Roads                      74     85      509      650    1,317
frrsy acIilttes                             11     20       48       20      100
bus Faclilties
Depots ad Uuinteuance Shope              0       6      103      175      284
Buses (ne and replacements)              0       0      347      495      843
}nterchanges                             0       0       12        7       19
Subtotal                    2 0            462      in    1.4
TOTAL Y xdlllon         O1.0    3.670   13.753   22.069   41.197
Y mlllonlyr            1,705  3,670    4,584    4,414    4,120
299    644    2.413    38       Z.t
8 9 il.11onyr           299    644       804      774      723
Sowe. SM, Deoemb  1992.



- 56-                         AN=  
ECONOMIC REFORM IN SHANGHAI
A. BACKGROUND
1.         A centra feaue of China's economic reform has been the emergence of the
collective-based industril sector to displace the stateowned enteprises in the secondary
industrial sector. The end of farm collecttvintion and the introduction of household
contract responsibility and markets fcr cash crops in the early 1980s yielded greater
productivity and increased both incomes and surplus labor. Surplus labor in both nura and
uan areas was encouraged to establish serc businesses and to work for newly formed
township and village collective enteprises. Such enterpises were formed with the help
of a growing financial sector bolstered by rural savngs, were less regulated than state
entepnrises, and operated mainly in the newly emng commodity market In light of the
demonstrated efficiency of this approach, prices were gradually decontrolled and state
entpises were also encouraged to adopt commercial practices and allowed to operate in
the market. In 1992 the government announced its plans to universally adopt a market-
based economic system and, inter alia, nominated Shanghai as a leading proponent of
reform experimentation.
2.         Shanghai, as a principal engine of the Chinese economy and mainstay of its
centra revenues, was long insulated from the government's experiments with economic
transfoation. Propelled by their special geopolitical circumstances, Guangdong Province
together with Fujian Province were chosen by the government in 1980 to spearhead
China's opening ard economic mnizaton. In these provinces, expenditure and revenue
authority was dentralized from Beijing to allow local initiative to work with Hong Kong
and Macao interests in developing an export industry and encourging technology transfer.
Through tral and error the systemic transformation of the Guangdong economy around the
Pearl River Delta became well advanced to the extent that it overtook Shanghai in gross
output and income terms by the end of the decade. However, unike the special economic
zones of Shenzhen and Zhuhai, the inner-delta economy became well intgrated with the
provincial and national economy. "Delta dynamism" became therefore one of the key
national development models emulated in the subsequent opening of virtually all coastal
provinces to economic reform and export development. This model is now strongly
evident in the Yangtze Delta economic region encompassing Hubei, Anhui, Zhejiang and
Jiangsu Provinces with Shanghai as its apex.
3.         Shanghai's development has historically been linked to the fact that it has
the largest port facilities in the Yangtze bp: and indeed all of China. As China's
international trade grew through the nit saith and twentieth centuries, Shanghai
prospered, becoming the nation's busiest port, its leafing commercial, financial and
manufacturing center, and its largest city. After liberation the govemment was, however,



- 57 -                        AN=  I
ddetermned to achie more balanced regional development. It therefore limited investment
in Shanghai and tapped the city's resources to support development of the national
economy. Financial constrints limited investment in infastructure and productive advity,
while economic controls resticted the response of industry tQ changing econonuc
coditions and impeded the naural evolution of the region's economy.
4.          A more open policy regime would have seen Shanghai's industry
transormed from a low-technology, energy-intensive sector to one characterized by high
technology, high value added and low envionmental damage. Moreover, the entire
economic struchtre would have evolved into one where manufactg industry was
relaively less dominant while    trtiary sector, especially commerce and finance, became
the major genetors of increased income and new employment. In more recent years, the
centra goverment has recognized these problems and has decided to revitalize the
economy of the Yangtze basin with Shanghai as "the Dragon's head." It has reduced
Shanghai's fiscal burden, encouraged reform expiments and sanctioned the creation of
the Pudong Special Area to atact foreign investment, promote export development and
stimulate the growth of the entire region.
B. EcoNoMN c EmRm Am SANGHA'S FUnRE DEVEOPMENT
5.          The Government of Shanghai recognizs the need to reform and transform
the economy. It is also, however, aware that these necessary processes will themselves
Impose certain costs on the municipal economy. Shiffing the strucure of the economy to
raise the share of tetiary industry from 30 to 40 percent or more, for example, and
hanging the strucue of industry will impose significant costs. A considerable amount
of existing industrial capacity wi be rendered obsolete and large numbers of workers will
be displaced. Some of these workers will be reabsorbed easily; others will have to be
retained, but many may find it difficult to find new employment and the living standards
of these worlers must be protected. It is recognied, however, that failure to carry out
reform because of fears about its employment consequences would result in the long-term
decay of Shanghai's economy. Increasing numbers of firms would find it difficult to
compete with newly emergng firms in other provinces. Attempting to mantain these
industies would ;mpose high cost subsidies on the municipal budget, limiting funds for
construcion and maintenance of vital infrastcture. The city would thus be faced with
a vicious cycle of decaying inrasucture, aging industry and falling living standards.
6.         The Govemment of Shanghai has been moving ahead rapidly to take
advantage of this opportunity and has developed a time-bound action plan as described
below to promote the growth and evolution of the economry. The major elements of the
plan are (a) experiments with enterprise, social security and financial reforms designed to
increase the autonomy of stte-owned enterpnses and allow them to compete on an equal
footing with townshp and village enterprises and firms with foreign participation, and (b) a
set of complementary reforms deigned to upgade the city's inadequate inffrastcture and
the provision of essential services, including housing and transport. As part of this effort,
the development of Pudong has been accorded special attention both to relieve pressure on
Pwd and serve as a pilot for some of the reform initiatives.



-58-                          ANNEIX I
7.         Reform experiments have begun tat will give selected entepiss gater
autonomy by separating ownrship from management functions and giving firms greater
latitude in res g   eir opeations. These experiments will be refined and expanded
as experience is gained. Unprofitable firms are being helped to merge with more effcient
ones, upgrade their technology, improve their management and rationaize their product
lines. Mobility of fact  of producdon is being facilitated by brealdng the link between
employment in a partcular firm and receipt of social benefits and providing income-
protection and retaining for displaced workers. Development of a land market is being
encouaged to bring about a more optimal spatial distribution of economic activities.
8.         Development of Pudong is being promoted by adopon of clearer and more
expeditious admive rules for fon investnent. In addition, fiscal incentLives have
bee established to favor investment by firms from otier provinces of China as well as
foreign firms. The idea is to create in Pudong a model where most frms are largely
autonomous and local government authorities can turn their attention to provision of public
investment and services. Development of Pudong will provide additional space for
industial growth while relieving congestion in Puxi. This wil facilitate infrst
improvements in Puxi, provide an opportunity for introducing marke-related land
tansactons, and male room for the development of financial and commercia enterpxises
in the city's center.
9.          Public expenditure for the development of Pudong and the revitalization of
Puxi is being expanded. Emphasis is being placed on transport links between Pudong and
Puxi and between Shanghai and the world (new port and airport facilities). In addition,
power supply, water and sewerage and internal transport, including development of
financially autonomous enities responsible for their delivery, are being given prioty.
Continued growth of worker housing, including the development of the financial system
designed to relieve enteprises of this responsibility is also envisioned.
10.        Fiscal resources for public investment will be mobilized in ways consitent
with reform effort and aimed at removing economic distortions. Subsidies are being
reduced and a uniform profits tax will replace the contract responsibility system. The
government will also adopt sepat recurrent and capital budgets to introduce transparency
into its fiscal operapons. Investment by enterprises will be failibtaed by reforms in the
financial system, including expansion of the securities market.
C. ECONOMIC REFORM ACIION PLANNING
11.        Recognizing that the circumstances of Shanghai and its dominant state-owned
entprise sector required special (and urgent) attention, the Shanghai Municipal
Government and the World Bank agreed to collaborate in the development of a framework
for economic transformation and possible Bank financial assistance. In February 1991,
mThe Interational Workshop on the Development of Shanghai's Economy" was
cosponsored by SM, the Bank, the Ford Foundation and UNDP. At the meeting the goals
of Shanghai's development for the medium and long term, and the economic and social
reforms necessary to achieve these goals and assure continuous and stable benefits were



- S9-                         ANN 
disussed. The pardeipants' Concluding Statement held that reforms n four key economic
areas were feasible and prccal. As a follow-up to the Workshop, a working group
fonred by Shanghai Economic System Reform Office (SESRO), under the leadership of
a Shanghai World Bank Loan Leading Group, prepared the Shanghai Economic Reform
Action Plan (SERAP) on the basis of the Concluding Statement.
12.         The above-mentioned Worldng Group, after considerng the reform plans
of the relevant SM agencies and rel t polices and measur, drafted a prelimiry
Shanghai economic reform policy framework and the SERAP, which were presented to the
China and Mongolia Department of the World Bank in May 1991 for comment. The
review confirmed the necessity of the SERAP to attainment of Shanghai's goals and
generally endorsed the proposed framework, emphasis, policies and timing, and also
provided some constructive revisions to the arrangement of the reform program, timetable
and macropolicy basis. The prelimnary SERAP was held to be a suitable foundation for
further refinement, which due to the gradual nature of the reform process was expected to
be an evolutionary process.
13.         A World Bank mission visited Shanghai in September 1991 to discuss the
initial draft with the relevant SM agencies. On the basis of these discussions, the SERAP
was restuctured into six sections relating broadly to (a) management of the transformation
of enterpises; (b) price and fiscal reform; (c) financial and securities market reform;
(d) infr      reform; (e) land use and housing reforn; and (f) social security and labor
market reform. The mission's proposed revion of the SERAP was reviewed by the
concerned SM agencies and the Chbia and Mongolia Department, and was further refined
at a Workshop Anniversary Meeting held on March 13, 1992 attended by SM, UNDP and
the Bank. The meeting discussed vanous technical issues related to the SERAP and
measures for integrtion of the reforms with future World Bank operations in Shanghai.
The meeting endorsed the revised SERAP and agreed to develop the six areas of emphasis
n greater detail with financial assistance for this purpose provided by UNDP.
14.         During May through July 1992, six SM groups were organized to visit
abroad with a prepared agenda to carry out comparative studies. With the aid of the
expeience gained overseas and the assistance of foreign experts funded by the UNDP
project, detailed action plans for the six reform areas were drafted and discussed with the
relevant agencies. The deailed action plans were reflected in a furither revision of the
SERAP dated October 21, 1992, a summary of which is in the Project File. The SERAP
represents the first steps designed to encourage integrated development of a dynamic,
outward-oriented, mulinctional economy. It is part of a 10-year program approach that
will encompass fte Eighth and Ninth Five-Year Plans and is a key understanding that
underwrites the future lending program of the World Bank in Shanghai. In implementing
reform, Shanghai face severe inf re deficiencies as well as growth requirements
that together will require considerable capital investment. It is expected that provision of
municipal services will remain a government responsibility for the foreseeable future. The
financing of this expansion is seen as the key issue and cost sharing among the
beneficiades where identifiable and the municipality is seen to be desirable. The aim,



-60-                          ANNEX I
however, Is to reduce the burden on the municipal budget to a minimum. The content of
SERAP with respect to inftstructure is as follows.
D. MUMCIPAL INIRAsrRUCJUE REFORM
15.         A fundamental objective in beeping with the separation of government and
enterprise is the strengtheng of government's ability to provie mundcipa services
efficiently in an enabling environment for economic development. The trend and pattern
of expenditure in Shanghai is consistent with this objective. In earlier development plans,
only some 10 percent of municipal resources were spent on social infrastructure. During
the current (8th) Plan it is expected that 50 percent of available resources will go to  cia
development. Planned major iftastructure expenditure porities total Y 18 billion dunng
the Plan period, although not all may occur during this period. Domestic and foreign
borrowing, together with some central government contribution, is expwected to make up
the balance. In addition, about Y 13 billion of primary and secondary infrastucture
exPenditure (including housing and enviromnment) is planned as a contingency, but in
general it is expected that secondary inftastructure costs at least will be financed by real
estate developers.
16.        Reforms that are being camied out in relation to all municipal services are
as follows:
(a)   price reform for urban services aimed at ultimately achieving full cost
recovery is proceeding as follows:
(i) tariff levels have been increased during 1990 and 1992, totaling
approximately 100 percent for bus fires, 20 percent for electricity,
and 150 percent for gas supplies and domestic water supplies; tariffs
have been introduced for municipal sanitation services; and vehicle
license fees have been increased by 150 percent to 450 percent, such
that subsidies were reduced;
(ii) in addition, various connection fees intended to recover secondary
infrastucture investment costs are now collected for individual
service connections and for property development networks, and
tolls are levied on key bridges and tumels;
(iii) tariff levels for most services in future will be used to cover
depreciation and repayment of interest as well as some proportion of
future investment equity funding requirements; tolls will be collected
on new major highways; new mechanisms including the expanded
use of borrowing for funding of capital expenditures will be
explored.
(iv) strengthening of the municipal and public utlity finance system for
infrastructure investment and operations and maintenance will be



stdi  incuding the use of borrowing, the development of revenue
sorces including prope    taxes and user charges, and the
development of longer-term finmacing mochanisms;
(b)   ste enig autoomy of public utility agencies and (to the extnt
feaible) mnuicipal servic departments to include full responibility for
plawing, investment, operations and maintenace, persomel and finmcing
has proceeded through various measures including the creaton of a
weage company responsible for the sewere system  now under
construction and a subway company; reonsibiity conta  sstem applied
to all service departmets at municipal district and subdistrict levels; in
fiture, municipa services agencies will receive greater autonomy in the
planning, investment and financing of their systems and public utility
coans will be subject only to policy guidance and regulation f*om the
Bureau level, while municipal service departnents will adopt an independent
cost acounting system to ficilitate sector management and financing; new
services will be introduced including mechanisms for support of industa
waste mement;
(c)  eunablig the use   enterprises as contactors to provide seleted stric
(public tport, garbage collectin, etc.) is curently under considirtion
by Shanghai;
(d)    egaoand guidae of the infiastucture s        will be introduced by:
(1) updating and strengthening of strategc spatia planning to recognize,
inter alia, the suport required for economic development, the
spatial development trends influenced by land and housing markebts,
the mobile poplation influx, the Pudong development, and
enironmental protection constaints; detailed control of land use
zonig and building development will be relaxed in favor of broad
control mechanisms commencing in Pudong;
(ii) the integrt  of planning for pimary infastructure investment to
support spatial development stategies (especially Pudong) based on
onsstent population and employment projections, consistent land
information, affordable service standards and modal choices
(including environmental protection);
(iii) segthn the medium-term and annual comprehensive planning and
budgeting procedure, and ependiture monitoring system;
17.         Each infras     subsectr will face specific institutional development and
polcy issues constet with the foregoing:
(a)   optmal stategic planning based on demand and affordable standards;



- 62 -                        AN r
(b)   appie standards for environmental protecton; and
(C)   estab          a corporate strucue including a capacity for demand
forecasting, planning and budgeting, implementation and O&M, together
with a cla cost accounting system and financial management c ty.
E NM STm EOaR INFMAnT  SwEro REFORM
18.        Early hininkmg by SM suggests that municipal services would be classified
according to their self-finang ability and required to operate on commercial principles
with considerable autonomy. Appropriate pricing policies are already under consideration.
Under these ciumstances, govemment would reglte only quality and quantity. Utilities
or serc  that can cover their costs would be converted to shareholding companies and
equies will be offered to individuals and legal persons.l/ Joint ventures with foreig
partners will e sought in appropriate case. In cases where partial sub ion is
required (e.g., subway), the services would be oprted by an enterprise to predetmined
standards and with a contact guaanteeing the required subsidy. In cases where no
revenues can be geneted (e.g., storm drainage), the budget would provide recurrent and
capital requirements. Measures for cross-subsidization from real este development
privileges are under consderation. Where services require capital financing from the
budget but which exceed the municipality's PAYG capacity, then deficit financing though
borrowing (e.g., bond issues) is proposed. Revenue from land use rights sales (about $2.4
bilion to date) is curently retined chiefly at the District level, but a case can be made
for retention at the municipal level for primary infructre purposes.
19.        The foregoing agenda is moving SM in an approprate direction but many
issues remain. While the advantages of corporate strctures for municipal services are
recognized, application of key policies (e.g., pricing) may be more critical hn
institutional form. Different kands of corporate structure would be considered depending
on the service concemed. Their capital structure would likly be different than industrial
enterprises and based mainly on debt financing. The development of municipal bond
market and a prudent debt management policy would be important. SFB would play a
major role in the control and allocation of borrowing. Enterprise efficiency will be a
major consideration in the competition to attract lenders. Economic efficiency pricing
should be adopted as a matter of policy or adequate taxes must be levied instead to cover
shortfls. Subsidies from general revenues should be carefully justified and targeted.
Sound accounting practices would be fundamental to efficient opeaions and costing;
guidance to municipal services entrprises by SFB is necessary as in the current case of
SOE accounting reform. Land sales revenues or endowments are chiefly a one-time
phenomenon; rents and property taxes would yield continuous incomes.
J1  Li Cbao water _caut plan, and to tm copomtos have be  conveted to d nad8mg
_ompanies to dat.



- 63 -                         Abu=  2
REFORI OF SHANGHAI TRANSIT
A. INTRODUCUON
1.          This Annex describes the progress made in the restructuing and reform of
Shanghai Thnsit (SI) and the technical assistance being provided to support ST in this
task. The Annex concludes with a summary assessment of how ST reform compares with
reform of public sector bus companies in other Bank urban tasport projects.
B. BAcKGROuND
2.          ST rns one of the largest bus operons in the world. It employs more
thaan 84,000 workers, manages a fleet of about 6,500 buses, and carries 15 million
passengers per day. ST currently comprises 20 major work units covering:
*     Bus operations (5 operating companies);
3     Trolleybus opeaons (3 companies);
3     Suburban and longdstance sevices (five oprtng companies);
3     Power station opertons;
*     Manufacturing plants (3, including 1 bus plant and 1 trolleybus plant);
*     Headquarter operations, and other service units.
3.          Bus routes are etnsive with 400 routes covering 20,300 route-Idlometers
in the metropolitan area. The route network is dense, with some routes carrying
particularly heavy traffic; for example, the East-West route Number 26 carries more than
300,000 passengers per day. On the main North-South corridor, bus passenger trips
during peak periods approach 30,000 per hour, and on several other major thoroughfares
reach nearly 20,000.
4.          The high density of bus traffic and the level of congestion of the streets
presents ST with a severe optng challenge. Despite wide spacing between stops, the
opeatn speed of buses is slow, averaging only 8 kn per hour in the central city, about
the same as bicycles. Bus services are very frequent with average headways of 3 minutes
at the peak period, and with many routes operating a headway of 2 minutes or shorter.
The flow of buses at the peak period exceeds 50 buses per hour per direction on several
sections of the street network and exceed 100 buses per hour in some cases.
5.          STIs most difficult challenge is financial. Costs have increased in rocent
years due to price increases for oil and other raw materials, but also due to inefficient
management, wage and bonus incrses for workers, and the larger than necessary number
of employees. Bus fares were not increasd between 1949 and 1990, so ta the aespite



-64-                          ANNEX 2
a doubling of fares in 1990, farbox revenues still cover only 70 percent of ST opeatng
costs. Hience, ST opetons requirean operating subsidy from SM, as wel as capital
grants for budng and bus acquisition. The existing fleet is inufficient, and both vehicles
and maintenance faities are in need of mo  n.
6.          As part of the Economic Reform Action Plan (Annex 1), SM have included
the reform of ST. The objectives of ST reform are as follows:
(a)  to incrase the decsion-making power of ST ma-gement in planning,
implemenation, management, and fincing poL;cies;
0b)  to progressively adjust ST tarffs in order to cover all opeting expenses,
including staff costs, goods and maerials, maintenance, depreciation and
interest, as well as maing a contribution to construcdon costs of new
investments, by the year 2000; and
(c)  to engthen the competence and duties of ST management, maldng ST
management responsible for planning, investment, operation, as well as
profits and losses.
C. RzuoIm Imrr[ATIVmS OF ST
7.          ST has already started to move towards the segmentation of its actvity into
sveral autoxomous companies, each responsible for its profits and losses, toward a more
flexible labor management, and towards regaiing the operating profitability through fare
iceses.
8.          Since 1988, ST has created several joint venture companies, responsible for
their own profits and losses, to cater for long-distance and suburban services oping
under different conditions from STrs core urban servces. So far, six such companies have
been created, following different patn and with difeent mandates. Some joint venture
involve foreg pars. In 1992, these independent companies operated all together 419
buses and transported 230,000 passengers daily.
9.          The most significant experiment so far is the creation in 1992 of the
Shanghai Bus Company Ltd. (SBC) for the operation of higher-quality, premium-fare urban
bus routes in Shanghai City. SBC is a joint ventre of ST and 13 other municipal
companies. It operate bus routes called ZX routes ihat replicate the exsing ST bus
routes, but with smaller buses and at a higher fare. Monthly tickets cannot be used on
these buses. After four months of opeation, SBC were operating 160 buses on 16 routes.
These buses are apparently as crowded as those on standard ST routes, which casts some
doubt on the reality of the higher quality of smice at peak hour, but gives an idea of the
latent demand.



-65-                           A3NNX  2
10.         SBC pays fees for the use of ST facilities, including depots, cantees, and
dispatch offices. However, SBC has its own staff, worldng according different rules that
aim to achieve higher productivity for higher wages.
11.         Although SBC has the saus of a private enterprise, its fes are set by SM,
and it has the same route itinary and number as the ST ones. Fares are higher than those
on similar ST routes (Y 0.077 per passenger-klometer versus Y 0.02 on ST routes) and
there are no discounted fares (by comparison, ST offers student tickoets at half price, and
monthly tickets at discounted prces; besides, monthly tickets are usualy paid by the
employer up to 90 percent). Higher staff productivity, and higher fire levels, are expected
to make this company profitable.
12.         Besides SBC, two joint ventures have been established with foreig partners:
the Great WaU Bus Serie Company Ltd. with a Taiwanese partner and Guag 2iongB 8
Company Ltd. with a Hong Kong partner. The Great Wal Bus Servie Company was
established in 1991, with a capital of $140,000. Each side provides 50 percent of the
pital plus in-knd services and equipment, and will share 50 percent of the profit and
losses. This company has been assigned to operate specific bus routes serving Pudong.
13.         ST is also tesdng the contracting of the opeaon of certain segments of its
suburban operations to subsidiary companies. So far, three suburban opeating companies
have accepted such multiyear contracts. In such cases, ST retains responsibility for capital
investments and the definition of services, but the subsidiary company annually negoates
the provision of the operating subsidy with the local Finance Bureau.
14.         ST has also consolidated several of its industrial units into a Bus
Manufacturing Company, aiming at satisfying ST's demand for bus producdon, as well as
developing outside markets. The bus production capacity of this unit is aepected to
increase from 760 standard units in 1992 to 1,500 in 1993.
15.        In order to employ staff and utilize property, ST has started to divrsify into
other fields, creating companies in fields as diverse as a real estate development, material
sWly, restaurants, and karaoke clubs.
16.         Moves have also been initiated to overhaul the personnel policies in order
to provide more incentives for labor productivity, and more flexibility in the hiring/firng
procedures. By the end of 1992, 98 percent of ST's personnel had been placed on
contract, and 1,775 employees had been transferred from ST mainstream opaions to
subsidiary companies.
17.         A new fare policy has been defined, with the agreement of the Price Bureau,
aiming at eliminating the need for an operating subsidy. After a fare study conducted in
1992, the following program objectives were agreed:
(a)   1993: fare adjustment to reduce the deficit and cover opeaing costs;



-66-                           ANNEX 2
(o)   1995: second fare adjustment to achieve a limited profit (10-15 percent);
and
(c)   during the Ninth Five-Year Plan, further fare adjustments to provide fimds
for investnents in capital works and equipments.
D. TCNcAL AS TANCE uE:R SMTP I
18.        It was agreed with SM that Technical Assistance funded under SMTP I
would be used to assist ST in its enterprise reform tasks; this work is due to commence
by the end of 1993, and includes the following tasks:
(a)   Stream A: Enterprise Operational Management
(i)  Survey of enterprise management and analysis of strengths and
weaknesses;
(:i) Analysis of the financial and operational situation of ST;
Siii) Establishment of a computer-based management information and
decision-making network system;
(b)   Stram B: Bus Replacement Program;
(c)   Stream C: Location of Bus Depots and Interchanges;
(d)   Stream D: Training in Management and Planning Techniques;
(e)   Stream E: Analysis of Reform Options:
(i)   Description, discussion and evaluation of Asian and other
international options for enterprise reform of public sector bus
companies.
(ii) Put forward possible options for enterprise reform of ST.
E. COMMENT: THE WAY FORWARD
19.         Tbe initiatives taken by ST to operate higher-quality services at a premium
fiae, to pla employees on contract, to establish subsidiary companies, to diversify in
order to use surplus siaff, and to contract out certain activities demonstrate an
entrepreneurial approach by ST management. They are similar to the responses observed
in other public bus companies faced with the requirement to become financially viable, and
constitute the first steps to operate ST on a more commercial basis.



- .7 -                         ANNEX2
20.         However, achieving financial self-sufficiency may prove to be more difficult
than the progam set out in pam. 17 suggests Fare levels can affect rdership in ways that
cannot always be forecast, so fare increases do not always bring in the expected additional
revenues. The opating costs of bus services are very vulnerable to taffic congestion,
and the cut det    ia  siion  Il not be easy to reverse. Rising inflatin is a
frer hard iat can esalate costs, while making commensurt fare incres difficult
to implment while Tariff Policy remains under SM control.
21.         It is too ealy to evaluate the results of the curmt initiatves, but they are
early a step in the right direton. The expermental joint ventures with privately funded
companies, in particular, are similar to models being followed elsewhere.
22.         The TA being provid under SMTP I will assist SM in deailing the next
steps, which wil need to focus on a number of key areas:
(a)   First, furtier cost reductions in ST core buginess by vanous means
ncluding through contacting out, establishment of other joint ventures, and
cowrporataion.
(b)   Secondly, adjustments to the regulatory framework including conideron
of ways to introduce competition m the provision of services, and the
separion of the powers for overall service provision from operation of
services.
(c)   Tbirdly, improving stategic and operational public transport planning.



- 6B -                        An=  3
PROCEDUE FOR PROCESSING
TRAFF[C MANAGEMENT PROGRAM SUBPROJECTS
A. BACKGROUND
1.          The development and implementaton of the Traffic Management Poam
(TM), subcomponent B3 of the project, comprises a phased submission of subprojects to
the Bank for review and approval. This annex sets out the requrents for procsing
these subprojects for review by the BanL
2.          The TMP will be prepared in the context of an overall traffic maagement
sttegy  under praron by SM. An oudine of the stategy was reviewed during
appraisl (IBRD Map 24984) and found to be a suitable base for developing the
subprojects. SM now needs to refine the oveal stategy, and then prepre subproject
designs that fit with the strategy. This work will be supported by technical assistance
under both SMTP T (TA Item C2) to mid-1994, and technical assistance under this proect
(Item D4 from mid 1994 to mid-1996).
3.         In order to minimize the worldoad on SM, subprojects will be rewved in
two stages. Only those proects acceptable to the Bank in the first more general review
woud pass on to the next more detailed stage of preparaton. The two stages and
indicative dates for subproject review are:
(a)   By the end of 1993, completed traffic management sgy submitted to the
Bank for approval.
(b)   Beginning of 1994 onwards, SM prepare feasibility studies and preliminary
designs for subprojects, and submit to the Bank at intewrals for approval.
(c) Beginning of 1994 onwards, SM prepare final designs, implementation
schedules, and cost schedules of subprojects and submit to the Bank at
intervals for approval.
(d)   Beginning of 1995, SM stat implementing the subprojects.
B. CIUhERLI FOR SUBPROJECr SELECIION
4.          The criteria for obtaining the Bank's approval of each subproject are set out
below. Essentially, each subproject should:



- 69 -                         ANN    3
(a)   fit in fte overal traffic management and road safety strategy for the central
area, and relate to the road hierarchy, the IRR and the arteral road
network;
(b)   comprise a series of fully integated measures and note merely be an
isolated scheme;
(c)   be supported by:
(i) curent traffic flows and estimates of trac after the subptoect is
implemented. ('Before' and 'Afte traffic);
(ii) an estimate of subproject costs broken down by category:
demolition, resetliement, utility relocation, civil works, goods
(imcluding mateials and equipment), and   strative costs;
mIii) an estimate of subproject benefits, quantified to the extent possible
in terms of operating cost savings and passenger time savings;
(iv) an analysis of any environmental effects where appropriate; and
(v) a resetdement action plan where appropriate; and
(d)   conform with Bank guidelines with regard to procurement.
C. TRAMC MANAGEMENT STWGY
5.          The underlying traffic management strategy will be further developed with
technical assistce (C2) under SMTP I. For Bank approval, the strategy should contain
the following information:
(a)   the existing and proposed road hierarchy as agreed in the Shanghai Master
Plan and how this relates to the IRR and other strategic routes;
(b)   a statement of both strategic and traffic management objectives;
(c)   a statement of the agreed traffic management principles and methodologies
for realizing these principles in practice;
(d)   the existing NMV, MV and bus flows along key corridors and an analysis
of the existing capacity of the network;
(e)   the forecast traffic flows for 1998, or other agreed date, using the EMME/2
model developed at SCCrPI and refined under Item C3 of TA in SMrP I;
an analysis of the required capacity of the network for each taffic mode
(NMV, MV and bus) based on these forecast flows;



70-                            A
(t)   analyis to define the potendal location of bus priotity measure and
potentalW restucturing of routes to bettr serve pasenger demand and
achieve operatonal benefits;
(I)   refinement of NMV, MV and bus routes so ta they relae to the Master
Pln and consider exisng and future flows, physical consints and
strtegy objectives;
(h)   an overview of potential taffic management measures and an initial
prioton of these _meu    including possble taffic sgal and road
safety subprojects; and
(i)   an outline time-based program for implementng subproje.
D.  sr SiY
6.          The feasibility studies for each subproject should contain the folowing
FMion to suppoftthe inclusion of the subproject in the Trfc Management   m
(a)   the objective of the subproject;
(b)   the relevance to the traffic management stategy;
(c) description and initial estimates of scope of works, including layout plans,
cross-sec ,ns, location of main traffic engineering measures;
(d)   description of eaxted benefits, and quantification to the extent possible in
tms of savng in operting costs and passenger travel time;
(e)   current traffic flows and estimates of traffic flows wafter fthe supoect is
impleetd;
(f)   estimates of any demolition and resettlement;
Og)   brief statement on environmental impact, including noise and polluti
levels on street included in the subproject;
(h)   options considered to achieve the same objective witn the generl
fiamework of the traffic management strategy; and
(i)    utline implementtion shedule w  chart).
E. PIYELNAY DESIGN
7.          in prpong schemes for inclusion in the TMP, the following informato
is required:



- 71-*                         ANN         3
(a)   preliminary engineering designs and cross sections as appropriate of NMV,
MV and bus routes;
(b)   description of the impact of bus priority routes, NMV and MV routes on
adjacent roads and whether the capacity of both the planned route and the
adjacent roads is sufficient;
(c)   description of measures planned to solve the problems of sidewalk activity,
NMV and MV parlkng, street markets, access to work units by MVs on bus
routas and NMV routes; access by NMVs on MV and bus routes;
(d)   description of actions required and agencies involved in the relocation of
bus routes, stops, termini and associated equipment as necessary;
(e)   preliminary taffic signal intersection designs and stage/phase arrangements;
(f)   an initial estimate of signing, lining and barriers required;
(g)   a preliminary demolition and resettlement plan, as appropriate;
(h)   a brief statement on environmental impact, as appropriate;
(J)   description and quantification of benefits achieved:  for bus priority
measures, the benefits expected from reduced travel time and increased
passenger convenience; for NMV routes, the benefits expected in terms of
safety and efficiency; for MV routes, the benefits expected for increased
capacity; for traffic signals, the benefits expected from signal Linlcing,
incrsed capacity, reduction of delay and number of stops; for road safety,
the expected reduction in the number of accidents and the cost to the
community;
(j)   initial implementation and construction schedules and procurement and cost
estimates; and
(k)   a preliminary enforcement action plan.
F. FINAL IMPLMWTATON PLAN
8.          The following information is required to be submitted for Bank review and
no-objection prior to commencing implementation:
(a)   final engineering designs to scale 1:500 and cross-sections as appropriate;
(b) final traffic signal intersection designs and stage/phase arrangements;
(c)   the final demolition and resettlement plan;



-72-                               3
(d)   an l     men  sac      pla to migte any adverent Impact
(as pprpia);
(e)    n acto pln detg the mau   teued to hoat bro    stops
and tm     ad ot  euipment and pm; an msce
ad cow for ts pla;
(f)   a ation pln to solve any rmining probkm  of sdeWk avity9 WV
ad MV parng, stee make, access to wor udi by MVs on bus rt
md WV routes; aes by N s on MV a  bu roues;
(g)   th fua esimate  fgning lnig and bars rquird;
(b)   f   imp tation and conswtcto  shdules, pt  pos,
and cost estimawes;
(I)   th fina enf mt acti  plan.



- 73 -                         ANNEX4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Dl: PROJECT MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
OuTLINE TERMS OF REFERECE
1.          These Terms of Reference rdlae to SMTP II Technical Assistance Item DI:
Project Mnagemet Suppor They concern the provision of consultant services to support
Shanga Municipal Govenment in the project management of SMTP ii, with particular
emphas on the Inne Ring Road (RR) component.
I-Cgod
2.          Technical assistnce for project management support is being provided under
SMTP I undl end-1993. This pemits initial taining of SM staff involved in the project
with a basic introduction to the subject and to the use of the personal computer (PC), and
the development and  ngthen   of the Project Implementtion Unit (PIU). Advice on
proect  nagement, pariculay in relation to the IRR, is also being provided on an as
requestd bads. Separate TA is being provided for training and advice on construction
supervsion of the IRR.
3.          A generally high quality of construction work is being obtained from
contrator on the IRR by Shanghai Municipal Engineering Construction Company,
(SMECC). Tbis is constent with the generally high quality of work normally achieved.
TA  pport for constructon supervion in SMTP II is therefore considerably reduced in
SMTP II to on-request advice.
Objetive
4.           he ojetve of the consultant services is, taking account of experience
gained in SMTP IP, to furier tain and advise the local staff of the PIU in the design and
implementation of proper project management procedures in compliance with interational
conditons, and to advise on potential problems during the implementation of SMTP II, in
order to better plan, coornate and monitor implemention of the various components of
the project



-74 -                         &I      4
Scope of Work
S.          The consultants are to train and advise the PI on mattr relating to proect
management including:
(a)   Updathe microcomputebased management in           system (IS)
established in the fir Shanghai Muropolitan Transort Prodect (SMTP 1)
to meet the requirements of the World Bank and intional onditions,
and train staff of the PIU to enable them to sldllfuiy opate the system.
(b)   Train and advise on inional poent systm  and World  ak
procedures for procurement for civil wors, mateials, equipment and
serces for the project, including the prepaton and evauation of biddin,
documents.
(c)   Train and advise on efficient contract       in compHance with
interationalstandards,, including conston  viion.
(d)   Trin and advise on standard project reporing fomats, including proect
progress, cost management and statement at completon.
6.          During the course of the assignment, the consutants will also provide
advisory sernces to the PIU on prqect management and consucton supevson upon
request as required.
7.          The consultants will not have direct responibility for project managment
or construction supervision, but will be expected to provide the necesary on-the-job
training to the PIU and both formal and informal training to the team as necewssary for thiem
to perform their function at the level of intnational standards for the areas covered in
para. 2 above.
Consultant Services
Duration
8.          The duration of the assignment is 12 months, sting in January 1994, and
would comprise about 15 person-months of individual inputs.
Skils and Experien
9.          There should be at least two consultants, with substantial experience in the
project manwWment and construction supervision of major constucon and institufional
development projects, with particular reference to World Bank procedures.



Il   .a
I    I  aaI    54.
a                  i
'                           ii
_~ I           a           Is{_z   
ao         i        I   Ii 



- 76 -                         AN=I 4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
D2: TRAFFIC MANAGEM  SUPRT
OUTLiNE TERM OF REFEECE
Introduction
1.          These Terms of Reference relate to SMTP It Technical Assistance Item D2:
Traffic Magenmnt Support. They concern the provision of consultant services to suppoEt
Shanghai Muncipal Government in the development and implementation of the traffic
management program component of SMTP II.
Background
SMTP I Traffic Management Component
2.          SMTP I includes a traffic management component designed to mncrease the
capacity of the transport network in and around the CBD and to reduce congestion caused
by conflicts caused by the competition for road space between NMV, buses, motor vehicles
and pedestrians. The component comprises:
(a)   NMV Action Program: establishment of an 19.4 km NMV route network
in and around the CBD;
(b)   CBD  Action Program:   development of a comprehensive taffic
management system for 26.2 km of the CBD road network,
(c)   NSC Action Program: establishment of bus priority measures, 1.1 mn in
length along the Waitan, and traffic engineering wmeasures to the north of the
recently constructed Wusong Bridge.
The component is scheduled for completion by the end of 1994.
SMTP I TA C2
3.          SMTP I also includes technical assistance (Item  C2) to support the
implementation of the traffic management component, the development of the SMP 11
traffic mnagement component, and for training of SM staff. The technical assistnce that
is the subject of this TOR is intended to build on the support and training provided in
TA item C2 of SMrP I.



-77-                           A       4
Traffic M          S
4.          S-M has prepared a draft strategy for the expansion of taffic management
mponent of SM]T I, to gradually enlarge as required the area covered by taffic
management *fom the CBLi to the whole area witin the IRR. Tbis draft statey is
contained in the report entited "SHANGHAI TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT STRATEGY
(Draft) February 22, 1993" (the draft Saegy Report). This draft sategy is to be
deveoped and refined with the assistance of the consultants, Northwesten University
Traffic     t     A sron Achman Associates, engaged by SM under the TA Iten C2 of
SMI? L
SM'! II Traffic Man         t Progra Subomponent
S.          The suboomponent comprses the design and implemention of discrete
taffic    ment measures win the famework provided by the draft Stategy Report,
and t    account of exeiece gained in the implementation of the taffic   ngement
co MpOnen of SMTP I.
6.          Inital devlopment of the trffic management component of SMIP II and
refement of the draft Strate  is to be undetakn by the SM tc  management eam
in asation with NUTI/BAA Cimsultants under Item C  of Technical Asitance in
SMTP I. Te current situation is dfscrbed in the Traffic Management Program Report
produce by NUTI/BAA Consltants in conjunction with the SM Tfc Man           t
Team.
Objective
7.          The objectives of the Technical Assistance are:
(a)   to assist in the design and implementation of discrete taffic management
measures that will constitute the Traffic Management (1) Progam
component of SMTP I1, within the framework provided by the daft Traffic
Management Strategy, and taking account of experience gained in the
implementaion of the tffic management component of SMTP L
(b)   to provide further training and profsional development for SM  staff
involved in  the planming, programming, evaluation, deign, and
implemeation of traffic management measures.
Scope of Wrk
8.          To achieve the primary objective of designing and implementing the taffic
manag    pgam coponent of SMTP II, the consultant will advise SM staff on key
tas, and assist them in undeaing these tasks.



-78-                          AM= 4
Task A: Review SMN     I Trm     Mnagement Componet
9.         in conjunction with dte SM staff involved, produce a concise evaluation of
the traffic managemeIt component of SMTP I using information from Bef   and Afte
Studies cared out under SMTP I TA Item C2. Advise on lessons to be leamed from
SMTP I, and ensure these are incorporated into the development and implemenion of
the TrAffic Management Stategy (rask B to F). This task can be carried out concrrenty
with the development of the Strategy and feasibility studies on selected traffic measure.
Task B: Refine the SWateg
10.        The Sttegy Report, produced by the traffic management team wit
_astance from NUTI/BAA Consultants, contains an outline of a StrAey tat has been
approved by SMCC as a bais for further analytical and design work. The consultant wil
advise on the methodology for refining the strtegy, and for the specific ta   to be
undertaken, including, as required:
(a)   addidonal traffic counts to describe the current traffic flows before schemes
are implemented
(b)  traffic asignments to descibe fuure flows (uing tc  models as
apicable)
(c)   additional analysis to define the potcntal location of bus priority measures,
and potential rest-uctuing of bus routes to better serve passenger demand
and/or achieve STC opeaonal benefits
(d)   refining as necessary the interelationship between the motor vehicle (MV),
the Master Plan road network, the Inner Ring Road, and the SM investnent
plan
(e)   refining as necessary MV, NMV, etc. routes considering edsing and futue
flows, physical constaints, Master plan, and strategy objectives
(f)   clarification of bottenecks and oter problem ares as recessary
(g)   potential traffic management measures and revised pno ion for
treatment of bottlenecks, etc.
11.         The t      management measr  to be considered for the TM statgy
include juncdto redesign and chnneizon, taffic signals, setting up of the fourth and
fifth reginal SCATS control rooms for Area Tafc  Control, measures to improve road
safety, enhance acddent analysis procedures and remedial meas  progams, bus priority
and relocation of bus routes and terminals, nonmotor vehicle routes, consructon of
missing lnks, pedestian and cycle bridges, as well as signing and lining.



-79 -                         ANNEX 4
Task C: Feasibilty Studes and Prelminary Desips
12.         With the objective of refining the Strat  and detailing measures reqWred,
the consultant will advise relevant agencies on the approach to be taken and the data
required in underding feasibit  studies and peliminary designs for junction and link
designs; channelization requirements; all work related to the relocation of bus routes/stops/
temni as neessay; taffic signal requirements; signing and lining; enforcement.
13.         The feasibility studies should include all engineering, demolition and
constuction requirements and costs, as well as an initial estimate of benefits and an outline
implementation schedule.
Task D: Prepare an nmplemena non Program
14.         From the feasibiEty stdies and preliminary designs, advise on and assist in
the prepation of a revised implementaton progwm, which takes account of increasing
tavel demand, availabiity of resources, and other construction activity in the central city.
Specific attention should be paid by the consultant to the roles and responsibilities of the
different agencies involved in implementation, and advice given on how thes, can be
clared and strengthened to faciliae the selecdon and implementation of measures in the
pwgam.
Task Es Pepr Proa'w res for Bank Fundlng
15.         Advise on the preparation of an annual progam of measures for Bank
funding, paying particular attention to Bank requirements with respect to resettlement,
environment, evaluation and supporting documentation.
Task F: R mplenion
16.         Assist SPSB in implementing the traffic management measures included in
the program agreed between SM and the Bank, building on the existing implementation
procedures successly used during the implementation of the traffic management
component of SMTP I, and exrience gained as identified in Task A. Monitor progress
regularly and advise on revisions to the measures or the implementation schedule as
requied by the monitoring results.
Task G: Training and Professional Development
17.         The consultants are to build on the training provided under TA C2 of
SMTP I and provide training and professional development to SCPDI (SUPDRI), SCCrPI
(SUPDRI), SPSB staff on the technical areas included in Tasks A to E, including study
methodology, operonal and economic evaluation of options, program development,
appLication of proect management (basic project management is provided under a separate
TA compoent), use of trial schemes. More specific technical raining is to be given in



-80-                          AM=  4
fte deign of taffic sidal progams, road safely remedial measures, and bus prinoity
networks.
18.         TrMc Signal,. The oonsultant will provide professional support to SPSB
in the desig of the traffic sigDal program. Specifically, the consultant will advise on the
deign of signal-controlled junctio th emphasis on:
(a)   des  and staging/pg to give NMV appoaches separae phases with
suitable clearance times where appropriate
(b)   designs and staging/phasing to give prioity to buses where appriate
(c   considering an expe     ng wih late starts, early cut-offs, simultaneous
opposing left turn, banning right turns on red and other measures to
nimize conflicts at junctions.
19.        Road Safety. TMe consultant wi be required to furh improve road safety
by enhancing accident analysis procedures and remedial measure progamms introduced
under SMIP I and to develop road safety education programs. Under this task, the
consutant will also provide advice on the setting up of the road safety center for research,
education and trning, which is one element of the SMTP II traffic management and afety
component.
Task G: Institutional      ening
20.         Review, taking acoount of Task A and exeience from SMITP I TA C2, the
current arrangents for the plannig, design and implementtion of traffic magement,
ienti  strengths and weakn   .  Suggest ways to further improve the current
rangements, generlly witin the eisdng institutional framework, ihrough strengthening
of exising instiutios (staff, budgets), clarification of roles and resonsibilite,
enhancement of capabilities and professional development of staff in technical, management
and project management areas.
Consultat Seres
Duration
21.         The duration of the assistance will be two years, sartdng in mid-1994, and
would comprise about 15 months of consultant inputs.
SkMs and Experience
22.         A number of consultants with skldls in traffic engineering and tranport
plaming will be rquired. It is essential that the consultant team include individuals with
experience in China and in the following subject areas:



-81-                          ANNBXA
(a)   panning, des, implemation, monitoring and evaluaion of area-wide
traffic management measr
(b)   Area Traffic Control (ATC) systems: installation, validation, operaon,
evaluation
(c)   bus priority measure
(d)   road safety, acident analysis and remedial meaures
(e)   training and profeional development
(f)   Intdtonad development
23.        in additio the following will be an advantage:
(a)   E     e  in design and implemion of NMV routes
(b)     erience h project mangement
(c)   Fluency in Mandarin as well as Engs
(d)   Knowledge of, and experience in Shanghai
)



-82-                            ANNEX4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
D3: TRANSPORT PLANNWG SUPPORT
SHIANGHAI TRANSPORTATION INFO}MATION CENTER
OUTINE TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.          These Terms of Reference relate to SMTP II Technical Assisance Item D3:
Tansport Planning Support They concern the provison of consultant services to support
Shanghai City Comprehensive Transport Planning ILsbttite (SCCTP1) in the implemenion
of the Shanghai Transport Informatin Center, and to frher tain SCCTPI staff in the
use of this data fr transport planing, proect appraisal, and the definition of investment
-ru
2.          In order to establish a unified and organized transport d-ia ssm that can
be shared by all relevant agencies, the Shanghai Municipal Govnment has reqsted
Shanghai City Comprehensive Transport Phnning Insitute (SCCTPI) to develop a
Transportadion Informudion Center for Shanghai.
3.          Since 1986, SCCTPI has conducted a number of surveys, and colected and
stred data, including on person-trips (1986), motorized vehicle trips (1986), taffic
volumes at intersecions (1986, 1990), and freight movement (1986). Data have been
assembled on existng land use and trsport networks, and socioeconomic forecasts.
4.          Under the first Shanghai Metropolitan Transport Project (SMTP 1), technical
assistn  was provided under TA Item C3 to strengthen SCCIPI. Task 4 of the initial
consultancy assignment of this assistance, which will be completed by the end of 1993,
covers the desig of an integrated databas. A second comultancyassignmentill provide
for the initial estlshent of Lranporaton Information Center through the
implementation of the surveys and dhe other aangementsfor the collection of the reqwred
data on computer equipment also funded under TA Item C3. lis TOR is to asist
SCCTPI in the furtier development and use of this database. Funding for vehicle detection
equipment to provide classified counts at inrions, and for travel ime data acquisition
equipment has also been prwvided under the TA of SMTP I, as part of item C7 Equipment.



- 83 -                        ANNEX
Objectives
S.          provide advice andttaining to assist Shanghai City Comprensive Tansport
Planning Instituft (SCCrPI) in the development and use of the Shanghai Tnsportation
Informatio cene data base for trnpr planning, project apprisal, and the definiton
of investment pdoities.
Scope d Work
6.          The asstance is to be provided though a combination of tenical advice
nd training. The topics to be covered include expnion of the data sets to be mantainned,
enhancement of the d    collection system, data requirements and usage for tanwot
planng, feasibiity  udies, functiona design, projct appraisal and definitiun of
investment proties. A fuler TOR would be wtten on the compledon of tie conulting
services being prvied under TA Item C3 of SMTP I.
Crnzltant Services
7.          Some 8 months of consultant services will be required, spread over a six-
month pd  staning in mid-1994.
Sklls and Experiece
8.          A number of consultants will be required with sklls and exeince in:
(a)   database management, tsport planning, analysis and economics
(b)   classom and on-t'-.-job training
9.         In addition, the following will be an advantage:
(a) Fluency in Mandarin as well as English.
(b)   Knowledge of, and experience in, the regon



-84-                           ANNEX 4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
DC: PAVELET MANAGEMENT SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introducdon
1.          These Teams of Reference relate to SMTP II Technical Assistance Item D4:
Pavemt Management System Development. They concemn the provision of consultant
services to support Shanghai Engmneening Administraton Department (SMEAD) in the
enhancement of the Shanghai Highway Pavement System (SHPMS), and the introduction
of SHPMS citywide.
Backgoud
2.          As part of the first Shanghai Metrpolitan Transport Project, equipment has
been provided to SMEAD to permit them to complete a comprehensive inventory of the
condition of streets in the urban area. This equipment consists of a falling weight
d-efectometer, evenness tester, and axle load weigh bndge. In conjunction with Tongi
University SMEAD has developed a highway pavement management system for Shanghai,
known as the Shanghai Highway Pavement Maintenance Management System (SHPMS).
By the end of 1992, SHPMS had been introduced in five of the 12 districts of Shanghai.
Objectives
3.          The objectives of the consultant services are to assist SMEAD to further
develop, improve and implement the SHPMS.
Scope of Work
4.          Development of SHPMS.  With a view to realiing computer-aided
maintenance management within SMEAD, and to raise to modem  standards the
management quality of existing management staff, provide advice and training ,n:
(a)   international best pacte in highway pavement management systems, and
suggest improvements to SHPMS based on this best practice
0)   methodology for evaluaing and forecsting pavement condition and
performance, optimation, technical and economic analysis of maintnance
and rehabilitation strategies and costs



-8S-                            K4
(c)   enhancements to improve the eisting PMS function
(d)   schedule for citywide introduction of SHPMS
5.         Data Collection Tn . Organize and tain in the use of the equipment
already purchased a special worldng group for data logging, so as to ensure the accuracy
and rliablity of data and a schedule of data logging.
Conultant Servie
6.         The duration of the assignment is exected to be about 5 montbs and to
involve about 4.5 peron-months of consultant input (including local and over
expenditures). An overseas study tour (about six persons for two weeks) and oveaeas
taning (about five persons for one month) is included in the tas
Skis and Expeience
7.          There should be at least two consultants, with substantial experipce in the
development and implemeation of pavement management systems, and in-depth
knowledge of inion  best ptce.
8.         Experience in the following is essential:
(a)   establising and opating a pavement management information system for
a metropolitan area; and
0b)   clasoom and on-thejob taining.
9.         In addition, the following will be an advantage:
(a)   Fluency in Mandarin as well as English
(b) Knowledgc of, and experience in the region



-86-                           ANM=iX 4
TECHNCAL ASSISTANCE
DS: ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN SUPPORT
OuThN TERMS OF REFERECE
1.          These Tem of Reference relate to SMTP II Technical Assistance Item D5:
Environmental Action Plan Support. They concern the provision of consultant sevices to
support Shanghai Environmental Protection Bureau (SEPB) in evaluating the envronmental
impact of the IRR and the effectiveness of mitigation meass, and based on the
aluation results, advising an revisions to the IRR Environmental Action Platn (EAP).
2.         ITe Inner Ring Road (IRR) Stage 2 includes the constructon of a four-lane
viaduct and the eason of a motor velicle (MV) and nonmotor vehicle (NMV) ground-
levd thoru . The IRR generally follows the existing Zhongsban Road enciring old
Shanghai on an alignment Xt is densely populated and very congested. The project entais
construcdon of 23.8 kn of roadway and viaduct between the Nanpu and Yatpu bridges,
on either sde of a 5.5 km viaduct constructed under an earlier construction phase.
3.          The Environmental Assessment (EA) prepared for the IRR project identfies
at least nine environmentally sensitive road sections passing through concentrated
reidential, cultual and educational facilities. Potentially significant environmental impa
include noise, dust and social and traffic disruption durng consruction and elevatin of
vehicle exhaust pollutant levels, nc-ise and scial impacts following completion of the
proect.
Objective
4.          The objectives of this technical assistance (TA) are (a) to provide
environmenta support to the Shanghai Environmental Protection Bureau (SEPB) during
constructo and the the first 18 months of operation of the Inner Ring Road (IRR); this
support will assist SEPB in evaluating the environmental impact of the IRR and the
effectiveness of mitgain measures, and based on the evaluation results, advising on
vions to the MRR Environmental Action Plan (EAP); (b) to assist the preaation of a
tme-bad and costed plan to implement a Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance (VM
program; and (c) to assist the development of a strategy to reduce damaging vehicle
enmisons.



-87 -                        ANNE  4
Scope of Work
5.         The scope of work entails:
(a)  reviewing air qualit, noise and vibration data collection and evaluation on
a quarterly basis;
(b) inspection of the alignment area during and after construction at daytime
and at night; inspection of sites where monitoring equipment have been
installed; and providing advice to the monitoring team in gathering data at
locations identified as sensitive during the inspections;
(c)   evaluation of the adequacy of the previously suggested mitigation measures;
(d)   as required by monitoring results, providing advice on the location and
nate  of additional mitigation measures for implementation as an
mendment to the EAP;
(e)   provide advice on the scope, conterst and equipment needs of a vehicle
inspection and maintenance program;
(f)   providing advice on how to incorporate the experience gained in reviewing
the environmental impact of the IRR into policies and procedures for
mitigating the environmental impact of transport infrastructre development,
leading to the development of a strategy for reducing dangerous vehicle
emissions.
6.         Inspections will tae place on a quarterly basis, each inspection lasting for
a period of approximately 10 days. An additional five-day period will follow the
inspection period for analysis of laboratory data, evaluation and formulation of necessary
recommendations for inclusion in the EAP amendment.
Consultant Services
7.          The TA will have a duration of throe years and will involve about 12
person-months.
Skill and Experience
8.          An individual consultant is required with a minimum of 10 years' consulting
experience in environmental impact assessment, with at least five years' experience in
monitonng and development of mitigation alternatives, and prior work in China.
9.          In addition, the following will be an advantage:
(a)   Fluency in Mandarin as well as English



-88-                         AMN=X 4
0)   Knowledge of, and epeience in, the iegion
(C)   Fandliarity with urban tnsport project.



-89-
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECIS OF
INNER RING ROAD STAGE 2
A. BACKGROUN
i.         Tbis Annex discusses the prepantion and content of the various documents
covering the env   al aspects of the Shanghai Inuner Ring Road (IRR) Stage 2. The
documents  :
(a)   Envrnmental Assessment (EA) Report;
(b)   Envionmental Action Plan (EAP);
(c)   Environmental Monitoring Plan (EMP); and
(d)   Em     y Respon  Plan (ERP).
Procedures
2.         In China, major infrstucture projects costing over Y 200 million require
the preparation, by a licensed agency, of an Environment!i Assessment (BA), which has
to be approved by the National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA). In July 1992,
NEPA approved an EA for the construction and operation of the Shanghai Inner Ring Road
(IRR), prepared by the Shanghai Environmental Sciences Research Institute (SESRI,
fomedy the Shanghai Research Institute for Environmental Protecffon-SRIEP). The
prposed proect includes the construction of a four-lane viaduct and the expansion of a
motor vedice (MV) and nonmotor vehicle (NMV) ground-lev'el thoroughfare. The
prWosed alignment traveses msy the exsting ring road encircling old Shanghai known
as Pui and passes through 8 of 10 city districts. The proposed project entails construction
of 21.8 km of the IRR between the Nanpu and Yangpu bridges, on either side of the 7.4
km viauct consruted under SMTP I.
3.          The authority, policy and administrative procedures required under Chinese
regulations during prepartion and evaluation of this EA included the following:
(a)   Management  Guidelines on Envimnmental Protection of Construction
Procts, Ministy of Communicatons Directive No. 17 (1990);



- 9( -                        AM=q  s
(b)   Mnagement Procedures for Environmental Protcon of Constucon
Projects, NEPA (1990);
(c) Official Response to the First Phase of Zhngshban Road Elevated
Epsway Proposal, Stae Plnning Commion (1990);
(d)   Official Response to the Shanhai Inner Ring Expresway Plaing Scheme
Report, Shanghai Municipal Construcdon Commision (1990);
(e)   Commissions issued by the Shanghai Municipal Construction Compay
(1990) and the Highways Dpatment of the Shangi Munipal
Engineeing Administration Bureau (1991) for conducting EA sdies of the
IR.
All internal rocedures required under Chinese regulations were folowed prior to
submission of the project to the Bank for possible funding.
4.          The EA was submitted to the Bank prior to tie prpatoy mission in
Augst 1992. Following this mission, an addendum to the EA providing great deti
of the itn;xts on the northeast section of the proposed alignment, a summary BA, an
environmental action plan (EAP), an environmental monitoring plan (EMP) and a
prehminary em-ergency response plan were submitted at the Bank's request prior to the
preappraisal mission in November 1992. The Bank's review and comments on these
reports was provided to SM in the Preapraisal Aide Memoire. Revised versons of the
above documents incororating major aspects of the Bank's comments wer submitted to
the Bank in February 1993 prior to the appraisal misson; these were supplemeted by
documents prvided to the Bank in May and June 1993.
D. ENvIRoNMENTAL AssESsamE? RipoRLT
Baseline Environmental Description
5.          Topogaphy Climate and Hydrology. Shanghai is situated on the eastern
fringe of the Yangtze River delta at the confluence of the Huangpu River. It is bound on
fte north by the Yangtze, on the east by the East Chira Sea, on the south by Hangzhou
Bay and to the west by the riangsu and Zhejiang provincial boundaries. Te terain in ts
region is a typically flat alluvi plain of the Yangte delta with some hilly areas to the
southwest. The topography lies four meters above sea !evd with a slight gdient from
the higher areas in the north, east and south to the lower-lying western portions.
6.          Shanghai lies in the northern subtropical regions, which is harcrize by
prevailing monsoons, a mild climate and modeate precipitation. The division of the four
seasons is disdnct with average high temperatures of 30C in summer and lows of 0'C in
winter. Average annual precipitaion is approximately 1,500 mm and the wet season is
normally between May and September.



-91-                           MM  5
7.          Shangbi   siaUd in the Tai Hu catcmetntterlaced with uivas
in a dense drainag network  ajor rives in the catmnt include the Yangtze, the
Huan   and the Wusong, which are interconecd by seveal minor creeks. Surface and
groundwatrs in the Shangbai area are heavily polluted due to waste discharge fhom
industial and domesc sources.  Surface wates along the proposed alignment are
parWularly heavily polluted by municipal, aoculural and industrial sources. The creeb
in this area are for the most part stagnt and marobic in nature. Groundwater data are
not avaiable for the area along the algnment, regional groundwer quality data however
indicas that conminaion levels are high.
8.          Alr Qualty. Shanghi is a densely ppulated industi city  a is rapidly
dvelong and  dualiing in respone to the recent opea-door policy of the cental
government.  he eonomic acvitiei of the city, and the traffic congestion caused by the
increased number of pdvate motor vehicle traffic sharing inadequate road space with
commerial and nomnotor vehice traffic, has caused a deterioratica of air quality in recent
years. Basline datc, gdered at varou locations withn  1,000 meters of the proposed
project alimat indicate that national Grade 2 standards for NOx, CO, TSP, NMHC and
lead are eed  wihn 50 to 100 meters of the roadway center line durin peak traffic
priods and within 25 to 50 meters durng normal tafic times. The northeast sectica of
the proposed allgment has somewhat betea air quality as this 4.7 kn secton is curentdy
inaccessible to taff for awrximny 2.3 hn and is used for light residental subdivision
taffic in the remaining 2.4 km.
9.          Noise and Vibraion. Noise levels along the existng ring road exceed
national sandars by apprcximately 10 to 15 Db(A) in daytime and at night. The
northeat section of the prposd alignment is an exception as it cunrendy is not a
thoroughfre for heavy city tffic. Vibrton levels along the existg anment sightly
exceed national standards durin dayime and are below stndards at night.
10.         Populaon. Te populatio of the  tpolian area at the end of 1991 was
over 12.8 million persons, excluding the apoximately 2 million floatng population,
wbicb is not officialy regitered in the city. Approximately 7.5 million people live in the
city prop  where the poplation dens  reaches 30,000 persons per kmr2. By the year
2000, it is estimated t  the municipl population may rie to 17 million witl a 50 percent
incr in the population ofthe city proper. Most of the inceasewil be due to migration
ftom rural areas as a ret  of the increase in Shanghai's prosperity.
11.         Cuual and ArcheologIcl Aspects. Shanghai is a relaively new city that
developed in the past 200 years as a major port and indusil center in the Qing Dynasty.
Most culturl or historic areas were developed in this recent perod and are situated in the
inner city. There is te      no indication that this proposed prject will impact cultrl
or archeological aspect of the city.  Should any arifacts be encountered during
constto, howev, sa laws requr  at costuction be suspended and the Antiquities
Bureau be informed to eamine the site.



- 92 -                        ANNI! 5
12.        Naual Habitats. The proposed alignment encircles the inner business
district of a very large urban area that was developed and constructed many years ago.
There are no undisturbed naura habitats in any area adjacent to the -ilignmert, and tae
only cunently open areas include small plots of farmland distnbuted anong the industrial
and residential districts in the norteast of the proposed roadway. Suzhou Creek also
passes the northeast area, but the waterway and its banks are extremely polluted and
anaerobic in nature.
13.        Urban Condition. Conditions along the existing ring road alignment are
relafively poor.  Emission from vehicles, traffic noise and living circumsances
immediately adjacet to the alignment ae not conducive to the well-being of area residents.
Shanghai generally is an overcrowded and congested city with poor air and water quality.
In light of these drcumstaes, the enviromental evaluation of the ring road must consider
ambient conditions and mitigation measures formulated to overcome potential impacts of
the prposed project withn the constraints of the existing envmroiental situation. Remedy
of existing conditions is not within the scope of this project and should be addressed as pan
of a citywide environmental imrement program. The exception may be if, as part of
the mitigation of a prcoect impact, an existing condition can be positively affected.
Impac Anaysis
14.        The EA concluded that the most significant impacts resulting from the
construcion of the nng road would include:
eIncrease in air pollution resulting from vehicle exhaust emission due to
increased traffic. With increased traffic volumes and restricted air flow
below the elevaed roadway, particulaly in areas confined by tall structures,
projections indicate that air quality may reach acute levels since rapid
dispersl of pollutants is inhibited. The elevated portion of the viaduct will
in tun increase the sptial distribution of contaminants. These impact will
be more severe in the noreast section of the alignment, which currently
has limited vehicle access.
*    Increased noise and vibration during construction and following the opening
of the ring ror- to traffic. This impact would be more significant in the
norteast section of the alignment since most of the area has limited vehicle
access. It is estimated that the noise along the proposed alignment would
increse by approximately S to 10 Db(A) at various locations depending on
exposure and adjacent building height.
*    Health, safety, and economic impacts resulting from construction-related
taffic and traffic congestion, and other environmental degradation resulting
fom construction activities, unless adequate countermeasures are taken
during construction.



-93-                          A
15.        Route Location. Tle proposed alignment traverses the heavily traveled
Zhongan  Lu for most of its length wit the excpton of a sogment to the exteme
north    of the rig road. Zhongshan Lu may be conidered the logical choice for the
viduct alignment since it is curently the inner ring road. The alignment conects the
major xsting and proposed crsngs of the Huangpu River, and s  wide, enoug  to
require minimal demolition work compared to other potential alignments.
16.         The deviation from the existing alignment of Zhongsban Road in the
nortat sect  is designed to avoid a dense prime residential area adjacent to the current
roadway. The existng alignment, which consists of Zhongshan Lu to the west, Handan
La to the north and Waning Lu to the east is flanked by new office and commercial
developments, two major uniersities and a large military base.
17.         R'seft1ement. Residents within the proposed ROW wi1l be rlocated to
better housing areas in the north of the city. This is discussed in detail in Anneoc.
C. ENVItOMENAL ACON PLAN
18.         An Environmental Action Plan (EAP) was developed tD specify the
mitgatng meas   to be applied t counter the potential adverse mvironmental impacts
of bulding the MRR, and other adverse impacts associated with taffic growt anticipated
to occur even without the IRR, as identified in the EA.
19.         Rslemen  A contngency fund of Y 16 million has been established to
relocate residents outside the ROW who are found to be significandy impacted following
project cotpledon. This allocation is in addition to the funds allotted for reocaion of
resdents and commercial fadcititi!s within the proposed ROW.
20.         Hydrology and Water Quality. The design of the expressway wil allow
the unhinerd  passage of the 100-year return flood. Contactors are to constuct and
satctorily maintain septic lanks for construction instalations. Hazrdous material and
geneal storage areas are to be sited away from surfae waters and are to be provided with
rng dmns and soak pits to prevent spillage from reach e water bodies. The dnage
system of the roadway and bridges, however, are not C  pged to prevent rleases of
tansported liquids from reaching surface waters in case of trffi acidents.
21.         Mr Quality and Noise. Control of dust during construction would conist
of sufae wapplicaion as necesary and limiting vehicle speed in eosd areas.
Batch plants would be located away and downwind from residential areas and consuion
times would be Lmited to between the hours of 7 am. to 10 p.m. to minimize noise
impact. Noise in residential areas will be minimized by insalation of cast-in-place piers
rther than pile driving. In some areas, however, piles will be d-ven. The duration of
driving in these areas will be restricted to the first 140 days of c.ustruction. Due to the
short cmstuction schedule, site operations in this case will be continuous over a 24-hour
period. A public awareness campaign has been undertake to inform area residents.



-94-
22.         To minimize noise impact during the operation of the ring road, sound
bariers are to be instUed in sensitive areas including the northeast section of the proposed
alignment, and ote areas impacted by traffic noise. Additionally, specially grded
pavements, sound-absorbing paving mateis and greenbelts will be used. Specific noise
control isaaon areas have been designated for a total of 4.5 km of the IRR at various
locafions along the roadway and on both sides of the new alignment in the northa
section. The implementation of the monitoring program, theore, is essential to develop
final locations and installation schedules for noise control facilities and identify additional
structurd soun-d-proofing measures needed for severely impacted buildings.
23.         To mitiate air quay impacts during ring road op ons, greenbelt areas
will be established where practcable, partcularly in the northeast section where slightly
wider land areas exist Shrubs and hedges will also be planted where possible along the
expressway to control total suspended particulate (MSP) and lead movement.
24.         Major mitigation measues included in the EAP include formulation of a
tffic management plan (such a plan is included as one of the main components of this
project), and long-term popuation resettlement and rezoning of the adjacent buildings
within 75 meters of the ROW  for commercial and other nonsendtve uses. These
recommendations are being incorporated into city planning progms to be implemented
within a 15-year period. Several policy recommendations are also  ented, which are
under consideraton by SM for future implementaton. These nclude enforcement of
vehile emision standards by fining vehicle eperators (197); and requirements for
catalytic converters and unleaded fuel (2000) among others. Inspection and maintenance
programs will also form a critical element of a comprehensive mitigation stategy.
25.         Miseineou Ma       e   Action. Contctors will formulate site safety
plans for the construction opans followig award of contracts. The site safety plan
wll include site enclosure strategies; taffic control; nmrial and waste management; and
worker safety. Implmntadon of the site safety plan would be monitored and enforced
by the construction supervision teams.
26.         Traffic management measures would be enforced during construction to
ensure the maintenance of reasonable traffic flows. The experience of the ongoing SMTP I
construction works for the IRR Stage 1 is relevant here, where insufficient attention to this
aspect in te early constction period led to chaotic and hazardous conditions for motor
traffic, bicycles and pedestrians. With this expeince, construction traffic management
has been tightened considerably and inconvenien,e to existing users minimized. These
lessons will be applied in the IRR Stage 2 works.
27.         A preliminary Emerge&, ;y Response Plan (ERP) has been formulated for the
project. The plan addresses adequately the issues of accident prevention and emergency
response.



D. ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORNG
28.        An Enviroimental Monitoring Plan (EMP) has been formulated to moitor
the impact of project consuction and opation, as well as the adequacy of implemented
miigation measures. Elements of the EMP include instllation of fixed monitoring stations
at various sensitive locations throughout the ring road area. The stations would monitor
noise Impacts for comparison with forecased values. Monthly air quality sampling for key
eisswon parameters would also be performed at fixed and random locations to monitor
imp    on areas adjacent to the alignment. The standards adopted by the project
proponents is curt national standards devoped by NEPA.
29.        Since the pwblems associated with growing motorizaon are relatively new
in Sanghai and in China generally, it is agreed that technical assistance will be provided
under the proect to assist the environmental moitoring process and the interpretation of
reslts. An outline tms of reerence for this technical assistance is included in Annex 4.
E. PROPOSD INVESDmEN  FOR ENVIRONmTAL PROTECION
30.        The esfimated costs of candidate environmental protection measures are set
out below. The only mease to be incorporated in the initial construction are noise
bariers at sensitive locations, but other measures will be incorporated as necessary,
depending on the results of environmental monitoring.
COST
(Y million)
Green belt plantings                                      5.00
Sound barries                                            10.20
Sound absorbing paving (endre lower road)                74.20
Sound absorbing paving
(sctdons 3 and 4 of viaduct)                            58.68
Sound proofing of sensitive buildings                     3.86
Resettlement contingency fund                            15.99
T8ining                                                   0.35
Fixed monitoring costs 1/                                 0.28
Total                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~168.56
1/ Annual monitoring costs are estimated at Y 0.1 million per year.
F. CONCUsONS
31.        While the EA generally addresses the Bank requirements for environmental
analysis, it did require strengtheing in some areas. This is not surprsing considering that



-96-                            E
motorization is in its early stages, and insufficient experience has been built up for these
issues to be ackled at the same level of detil as the industralized world. The situation
is complicated by the act that tffic forecsng procedurs are also at an early stage of
development in China. Thus, the combination of the uncertintes of taft1c foecating
models, and the uncerinties of the theoretical models of taffc noise and polluion
imcts, means that traffic envirmental impact assessments in China must be eated with
caution. This is particularly true in Shanghai where, being one of the very largest
metropolian regios of the world, these quesdons are pardcularly complex to andalyze.
32.         The Shanghai environmental teaii focused much of their effort on measuring
current air and noise pollution along the line of the IRR. Their sneasurements do not
present a pleasnt piue  of the cunrent conditions along fte existing road; these resudt
from dense urbn developme nt, poor traffic conditons caused by increasing traffic volumes
uing inadequate infatructure, and dominance of vehicles based on outdated and pollutng
gne and fuel technology. Faced witi this, the key questions concern how the prject
will affect these conditions, and the nature of the stategy to gain improvements.
33.         Future Condhkos. A weakness of the EA is that no estimate was made
of future conditions without the proposed IRR project. Hence, the future projections based
on a large taffic increase is comprted direcdy with the existing conditions under currt
traic volumes, demonstatng that with more traffic in the future, ar quality is likely to
deteorate. Howc"er, much of this trafc  increase, and degradation in air quality, is
likely to occur even/without the project, being driven by the current motorization trends.
A more useful com arson would have been made in two steps, first estimating conditions
without the prodeqt but with realistic assumptions on traffic growth, and then estmang
how these conditibns would likely change with the project. Such an analysis would take
account of exected increases in traffic speeds on the proposed IRR viaduct, on the
exanded ground-level rad, and more generally in the central area of Shanghai within the
IRR due to traffic diverion, and the benefits this would introduce through reduced
emissions, all compaed with the no-project situation. While it would be difficult to argue
that conditions would actually be improved along the IRR compared with today, it can be
argued that conditions with the ItR project would be better than without the project. The
exception to this general statement is the northeast section of the IRR, which would pass
thrugh an area of currently resticted motor vehicle access.
34.         Proposed Actions. It is a long-term goal of Shanghai to reduce the impact
of evrmntal problems caused by road  ansport, and the approaches proposed in the
EAP faU into three broad categories:
(a)   amelioron measures to reduce the impacts, including sound-absorbent
pavements, noise barries, green baiers to help absorb (cushion) vehicle
emissions, building modifications to pro    occupants from noise, fumes
and dust, and controls on contrctors during construction;
(b)   changes in land use in the affected areas; and



-97-                          ANNEXS
(c)   reduction of the problem at source, including better motor vehicle
technology, enforcement of emission standards, and cleaner fuels.
35.        The awrelioration measures cited in (a) above can be expected to bring
significant benefits durilg the constrion period, and will cetinly lessen the impact of
the road when carrying trffic. In themselves, however, they would not transform
conditions along the IRR alignment. The measures in (b) and (c) are therfore both
required before conditions would improve substantially.
36.        The implementation of land use changes requires both investment resources
and development initiatives. On resources, the cost of acquiring and making ready the
right-of-way (ROW) for the road already accounts for over 30 percent of the total project
cost. SM is therefore reluctant to add to this cost at the present time. However, they
expect that the areas around the ROW will be redeveloped over the coming years, partly
as a result of the oontinued city rehousing program (Annex 6), but helped by growing
commercal pressures to develop land near the IRR. With the rapid growth of the
Shanghai economy, the development of land markets, and the inherent attractiveness of
land near the IRR from the point of view of accessibility, these expectations appear
credible.
37.        For the implementation of improved vehicles and fuel, actions under the
project would include: (a) preparation of a time-based costed plan for implementing a
vehicle inspection and maintenance (VIM) program; and (b) development of a time-based
and costed strategy for reducing damaging vehicle emissions. Motor vehicle pollution is
a serious concern for all urban areas in China, and to address the issue, the Bank is also
supporting the EhWironnal Technical Assistance Project (P-6056-CHA). Under this
project, a pilot program is to be launched in the southern city of Guangzhou where the
pressures of growing motorization are even greater than in Shanghai. The results of this
study are expected to be incorporated in the pruposed Bank-funded Guangzhou
Metplitan Transport Project, and are expected to help develop motor vehicle design and
fuel policy throughout China.
38.        Construction of a major arterial road in a large metropolis will inevitably
cause some dislocation and adverse impacts, especially in a city such as Shanghai where
Little modern road construction has so far been undertaken. In many ways, the alignment
selcted for the IRR is a logical one, linking the two new Huangpu bridges and the IRR
Stage 1 along what is currently, for the most part, an existing ring road. Although
conditions along the new IRR are not likely to be good, they will probably be better than
if no new road were built. One of the major objectives of the M.R, together with the
associated Nanpu and Yangpu Bridges, is to open up access to Pudong, allowing
development to take place there and so relieve the pressures on the existing city structure.
Thus, in the longer term, the environmental impact of the ring road on the city as a whole
is likely to be beneficial.
39.        Environmental assessment capabilities are still in a process of evolution in
China and the forces advocating development need to become more sensitive to



- 98 -                        ANN    f
environmental issues bafore more rigorous stauidards are implemented. Projects such as
the ring road may therefore be used in the capability building process in support of larger
environmental improvement programL



-99 -                         ANNE6
]RESE TLEMENT ASPECTS OF THE PROJECT
A. SCOPE OF     RESMMLEIIW
1.          The prject comprises three components th could require resettlment:
Constructon of the In   Ring Road Stage 2, Public Trnsport F vestments, and the Traffic
Man agement Plan (pert of the Taffic Manament and Safety component). Sunce the
Trffic Manaement Program comprises subprojects to be Uientified and prepard durng
implementation, no detailed resettlement information is available at present. A resettlement
plan for each ientified prqject under the traffic management program is required as part
of required documentation for the Bank rview. Resettlement for fte other two
components is summarized in Table 6.1.
2.          Resettlement for the Public Transport Investments component mainly
concerns the two prosed bus depots at Caobao and Yinghang. The third subproject,
Caomi Bus Interchange, is located win the interchange of the nner Ring Road and
demolition and relocation have already been completed under the Inner Ring Road
esetlement efforts. A summary of the Resetdement Action Plan for this component is
summadzed in Table 6.2. The remainder of tfis annex concerns resettement associated
with the Inner Ring Road Stage 2.
3.          Acrding to the resetement plan submitted by Shanghai Ihner Ring Road
Project Offce in October 1992, the endre I    Ring Road, Stage 2, will relocate a total
of 6,290 households or 21,700 people, living in eight urban districts of Shanghai,
demolishing 184,355 m of residential houses within the project site. The proect will also
affect 560 enterprises, by removing 249,192 n2 of nonresidential floor space. About
335 mu (22.3 ha) of land area will acquired, among which 148 mu (44.2 pent) are
farmland.1/ A summary of resettlement requirements is given in Table 6.3.
4.          Table 6.4 provides more detailed information on resetded households and
their geographical distdbution. The cufrent floor space per household is very low,
averaging only 29 m2 per household, or 8.4 in2 per person.1 If we convert floor space
into living space, the per capita living space is only 4 or 5 n2, which is below the city
J11 7h r_dmt lad arm claed for th viadu d  surfic od consucto ae o iclued.
21  lb aveagp nune of peou p family is 3.45 for tho prject sit



- 10-                          am=
average of 6.7 m2 (1991).X/ According to the survey estimate by the project office, most
demolished housing stock by the Inner Ring Road (about 75 percent) was built around
1950. Another 20 percent was built in the 1960s. Only 5 percent of them were bilt after
the 1970s. In terms of quality of demolied houses, except the 5 percent built In the
1970s, exstng housing was in much poorer condition than the proposed new resettlement
housing. The recently completed sample survey of relocated households from the brer
Ring Road Stage 1 confirms this basic situation. According to this survey, among those
being rlocated, 85 percent of households do not have private bathrooms; 80 percent are
without private kdtchens, and one quarter do not even have nning water. Among total
demolished resdential floor ar, 63 percent is privately owned; this is another indication
of poor condition of these houses since most new housing built after 1949 is owned either
by the city or by enterptises.
5.          Like the resetement practice in SMTP I, all displaced residents will be
relocated to new suburban hiousing estates. One major improvement in the proposed
project is that there will be no temporary resetlement. Most residents will be directy
resetted to the new housing districts. The resettlement housing for the proposed project
will come from seven new housing districts, including Sitang, Dezhou, Zhongyaun,
Tumen, Changqiao, Pengpu, and Meilong. For almost all relocated households, these new
housing estates will have much better living conditions than that in the old communities.
On average, each relocated household will get a housing unit of 57.5 mn (ranging from 38
to 89 M2), compared with only 29 m2 before rettlement, an average increase of almost
100 percent. The new apartments, ranging from one to hee bedrooms, are all equipped
with private batoom, kitchen and gas facilities. In addit;on, each new housing este will
provide smndard schools, shops, clinics, and parks, with much improved environmental
quality.
6.          Perhaps the only drawback is increasing commuting distance for most
resettled residents. According the survey of resettlement on SMTP I, about three quarters
of households claim their commuting ituation deteriorated after the resettlement. In
comparison, the commuting aspect on new resettement in the proposed pro.act seems to
be improved as the result of increasing the number of resettlement sites. According to data
provided by the project office, about 68 percent of new resetdement housing is located
within 5 km from the existing project sites. Only 9 percent of resettlement housing is
located over 12 km distance from the project site, compared with 60 percent of
resettlement housing for SMTP I.
7.         in terms of information on affected enterprises, Table 6.5 provides a detailed
overview. Among 560 enterprises affected by the Inner Ring Road Stage 2, there are 411
factories (73 percent); 126 shops (23 percent); 19 schools (3 percent); and 4 hospitals
(0.7 percent). Over 250,000 e2 of floor space will be demoLished, among which over
40 percent is cc 'sidered in very poor condtions. The demolition and relocation will result
3/  In China, living space refers to net uwful space by excluding litchen, batoom, closet and stuchtms.
Ihe ratio of livmg space is often 50 pement of total floor spae for now apartments; for old type of
houses, such ratio could be as high as 60 to 70 perent



- 101-                        ANNE"
in temporary job loss for 1,S550 employees. They will be compensated according to the
average wages in the city at about Y 280 per month. The compensation is usually paid for
a year. For those who wil be affected for more than a year, the work unts are
responsible for providng condnuous compenaion for the employees. Since the full wage
compensation is paid to the w,rk units at once, and since not all affected employees are
expected to be unemployed for the whole yea, te compensation shoduld be sufficient to
support small number of employees for rveral years.
B. RE        S      ; EXPERENCE IN S wANJA
8.         In a rucently completed Bank review on resettlment experience in China,
the performace of urban resetement in China was considered as the best among all
secors.4/ Overall, relocated urban residents in China have been compnsated more
generously, and the risettlement prs    has more often been handled by expeienced
resettement exprts. Although the amount of resettlement in the proposed project is about
2 to 4 times larger than hat 1n SMTP I, it is still quite small in comparison with the
overal resettlement work in the city. In the past 20 years, the amnount of resettement has
been increasin rapidly in Shanghai. The annual resetdement has increased from only
68,000 m2 of building demolition and 2,260 households relocation during the early 1970s,
to 580,000 m1 of demolition and 30,000 households relocation in 1990s (Table 6.6).
Table 6.7 gives a further breakdown in terms of ypes of resetement in Shanghai after
adoption of Shanghai resettement regul.-an. As one can see, resetdement caused by
urban infrastructur projects is reltve small, sharing about 12.7 percen of total
households and 8.2 percent of removed floor space. The urban housing redevelopment
corises the major part of resettlement in Shonghai between 1991 and 1992, accounting
for about 85 percent of relocated households and 75 percent of removed floor space.
Accordig to officials from tde Shangha- Real Estate Administatioi Bureau, it is estimated
that by the end of year 2000, about 15 million n9 of floor space will be demolished, which
will relocate about 300,000 and 400,000 households. Most of these demolitions will be
within the central city of Shanghai.
9.         It is from such a large scale of demolition and relocation that the process
of resettlement has been modified and improved, and eventually institutionalized. The
review of resettlement implementation in SMTP I has illustrated convincingly tha such a
process, including a legal framework, well-organized institutional network, well-defined
cimpensation policies, and dedicated staff, is quite capable of carr3 ;ng out the resettlement
*vork for the proposed project in accordance with Bank's guidelines on involuntary
esettlement. The following sections briefly summarize such process.
C. LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR RESErnIEmENr
10.        Since the 1980s, a large number of laws and regulations have been adopted
in both national and local governments that provide a legal framework for urban
41  Mmw Inbwwy Rweseaknem (I1641-CHA), luno 8, 1993.



- 102 -
construction process In Cbina. At the national level, the most releant legilon
conceng the issue of urban resettlement are two laws and one reg on: (a) the Land
Admn 3s.ratiov lAw (1986); (b) the City Planning Act (1990); and (c) the "AdmnTrAve
an Urban Buildg Relocation' (1991). In addition to thes national laws and
reguatios atherer many locaImplem       ion  ma   or regulations adopted by
Shnghai Municipal govemment, the most important of which are: Shangha Municipal
Administrativ  Regaon on Urbn Construcion Planing (1989); ProvIiona Regulation
on Land Use Rights Trsfer in Shanghai (198Th and Shnghai Implmenton of
Adm i    Regulions on Urban Building Relocation (1991).  All the   laws,
regulaons and implementation measures provide a legal frmework govering th urban
constuct  pocess. Of these, the 1991 Reguladon provides the most guideines fo uban
resettlet   work in Shanghi.
D. PtwxEr APROVAL PROCEDM
11.        In Shaghai, the resettlement is only one step of a long project cycle. For
any urban proect, before it enters the process of demolition and rlocation for obtaining
onstuction land, at lease sevea key steps have to be passed. They include: (a) ect
investment plan approval from the local planning commission; (b) urban planning approval
on proposed csonsrc    by the city planning bureau; and (c) land use application app l
by the land adn bureau. Here, the urban planning approval is to ens  the
p4z-t confom  with the master plan and other zoning regulations, and land use approval
is to ensure land use rights being transfred properly.
12.         This project ap  l procedure provides a context from which the proect
demotion and nrsettlement work coud be carried out.  The newly adopted
"Adminsve Regulation on Urban Building Relocation and its local imp tai
measu   prvide a comprehensive famework for implementig resettement process.
Accodn to these regulations, the municipal real estate astation bureau or the
district real estae administration bureau is given the authority to supervise the overall
resettlemnt maters. Broadly spealdng, the resettlement work could be divided into tree
steps. Te first step is to apply for the demolition and relocadon pennit from the proper
levels of real estate administraton bureau. The second step is to consut the public,
particulay those affected residents and work units, as well as relevant govenment
agencia. The tird step is to comnplte a resettlement contract between construcnton unit
and those to be relocated.
E  CONIICr RESOumION AND APPEAL PROCEDUE
13.        If the negotiaton cannot reach a contract, a process of persuason, ruling,
administive reavw and appeal as well as court orders could be followed. In general,
Chinae procedures emphaizes peaon raher than legal procedures to resolve conflicts,
and this applies also th resetement process. A typical process for conflict resolution
inckides:



- 103 -                        Abu     6
(a)   Proaslou. After the resettlement plan and compensation arrangement
have been made public, the .;aff of rsetetement office wilU visit those
famflies who refuse to siged contracs. They will introduce reguons and
listen to households' concens. If seval visits and negodation stll fail to
produce results, the officials wDll visit the work units of these reidents,
hoping that work uits could persuade he employees to comply or provide
some assistance if it is necessary.
(b) Ruling. If these talks sfill cannot resolve the conflict, the resettlement
office will turn the case over to e real este adminision bureau, which
also grants the demolition and relocation permit in the first place. The real
estate administration bureau will deliver the final rling in paper on proper
level of compensation and retement arangement based on given facts.
If necessary, the District Legal Committee will set deadline for forced
relocation.
(c)   Adminitatie lki view and Appeal. If the resetled persons are still not
sfid  with the ruling by the real estate bureau, they could, within 15
days, request an adminisative review of the case by the same or higher
level of govemment, or appeal directy in court. In general, there is a very
small proportion of cases going through the ruing and appeal stage. For
example, in Shanghai, within one year of the adoption of the new
resettlement regulation in 1991 (August 1991 to September 1992), less than
1 percent of households settled their disputes through final ruling (222 out
of 31,002), of which only 7 to 8 households were forced to resetde. For
the whole resettlement of SMTP I, there were only two cases that went to
the appeal stage, but both were settled before reaching court. However,
since most these laws and regulation have been adopted quite recently, one
cannot expect such smooth implementation in every project across China.
14.         According to Shanghai resettlement regulations, dunng the process of
appeal, if the affected resident has been given resettlement housing, or temporary
accommodation, the demolition and relocation could proceed without delay. In other
words, it assumes that the appeal only deals with the issue of 'fair compensation,' rather
than 'due process." The process of project approval, from project investment and planning
appoval to grantng demoltion and resettement permit, establishes the bais for
proceing with the project After this appwval, the unresolved issue is to decide what
is a proper level of fair compensation for the affected parties.
F.   IrrltN    ORGANI ON AD PLANNN
15.         There are two levels of organization responsible for coordinating and
implementing the resettlement work. At the city level, within Shanghai Municipal
En,ineering Construction Company (SMECC), te    is a permanent resetement
depment dealing exclusively with resettlement issues from early design stage to project
implementation stage. In every urban district, coespon     with SMECC, there is the



-104-                          ANNEX
Distit Engineeing Constructin Company (DECC), which also contains a resttement
office responsible for iplemeng retlement for various inf1astucture projects within
dhe district. Since the Inner Ring Road Prqoect involves eight differet urban districts,
there will be eight such resettlement offices, made up of staff from DECC and some other
district agecies.
16.        In addition to providing early estimates of resettement scope and cost, the
resetlement department at SMECC is responsible for obtaning resettlement housing units
from the city. During the project implementation, tiey are also responsble for
coordinating actual resetlement process, including signing resettlement agreemets wi
distict level resetdement offices, and to a certain degree, handing resettlement cases
involving large work units. Since the actual resettlement work is contracted to different
district resettlement offices, SMECC's resettlement department also performs the function
of monitoring the resettement progress and keeng implemention schedules for the
project.
17.         The resettlement offices at the disict engineering construction companies
deal with resttlement at the local level, dimctly communicating with relocated households
and affected work units. They are often required to sign contacts with SMECC for
caymng out actual reettlement work under a fixed dmetable and budget. The budget
includes cost of demolition, various compensation fees and moving expenses, as well as
a small amount of service charge. For SMTP I, the distrct resettlement office has been
paid at Y 150 per relocated household, and Y 500 per rlocated work unit. In gene,
there are 10 permanent staff in these district resettement office. On a cae-by-case basis,
the district Inner Ring Road Project Office may organize a special resettlement team to
expedite the resettlement process in order to meet a construction schedule. Thi special
resetement team is made up of staff from many rlated district agencies, such as public
scurity, family p! nning, district housing office, as well as officials from affected
subdistrict governments. For the second phase of SMTP I resettement, a 150-person team
was assembled and headed by the deputy district director.
PMRNCnLEs FOR COMPENTION AND RESEMllM
18.         The resetement and compensation of the affected popuation is based on
principles set down in all relevant laws and regulations on resettement, particularly the
Shanghai government adopted, Implemenion of Administative Regulation on Urban
Building Relocation1 (1991).  Following the above documents and the current
administrative praice of Shanghai municipal government, including experience in
SMTP I, the basic principles of resettlement were tially established as follows:
(a)   All affected residents will be relocated to new suburban housing districts.
The resettement housing for the proposed project will come from seven
new housing districts, including Sitang, Dezhou, Zhongyaun, Tumen,
Changqiao, Pengpu, and Meilong. The distribution of resetdement housing
among different districts wi1l be detemined by their proiumitY with relevant
projects sites.



- 105 -                        ANNEX6
(b)   On avage, each rlocatd household will get a housing unit of 55 mn2,
equipped with bathroom, kitchen, and electricity, running water and gas
facilities. The aparument size ranges from one to three bedrooms.
(c)   For demosed privately owned housing, compensation will be based on
Y 192 yan per e2.
(d)   Among the affected residents, only those who have permanent residency in
the city will be qualified for resettlement and compensation. Temporary
residents are not qualified for resettlement and compensation.
(e)   Since the  ttement process is intended to improve housing conditions for
affected residents, family members who live apart from their fimily units
are not qualified for resettlement assistance. A list of conditions under
which faily members do not qualify is specified by the city and district
resettlement offices.
(f)   The final arrangement is to match the size of resetement housing with the
amount of resetement housing to which that household is entitled, which
is based on number of qualified family members, size and quality of
existng housing. For the city government, the resettlement housing is
obtained at cost price of Y 960 yuan per m3.
(i) For most affected industrial and institutional units, if the demolition does
not affct main production opeation, they will not be relocated. Instead,
they will be compensated for loss of property and equipment, but not the
land area. For those units that need to be relocated to new sites, the cost
of rebilding will be included in the citywide investment program, but the
project office is required to requisition the necessary land.
()   The demolished property compensation standards vary between Y 713/m2
fo frame sructu, Y 497/m2 for mixed structures, and Y 402/m2 for
wood and brick strctr.
li)   Equipment-moving expense is based on Y 150l/2 of total factory floor
()   For collectively owned entrprises, compensation for employees temporaily
out-of-work is Y 3,375 per year.
(k)   Community sevce facilites such as grocery stores, elementary schools and
hospitals, will be relocated near the project site.
(1)   Individual and self-employed shop owners will be relocated in some new
markets in new housing districts, or along the streets near the project.



-106-                          AN     6
(m)  Surplus agricultura labor resulted from land requiition (about 10 ha of
famlnd are to be acquired under the project) will be absored either by
local township and villge enteprdses, or will have employment aranged
by the Shanghai Labor Bureau.
H. bIwMLMDATION OF RusSr
19.        The schedule of resettlement work for Inner Ring Road Stage 2 is shown in
Table 6.8. One important feature concerning reetement work in Shanghai is the close
relationship between resettement work and oveall project During each proect ccle
from feasibility study to final implementation, the resettlement department has to conduct
at least the resetdement surveys in order to provide accurate cost estimates for project
managers. The first two surveys are linked with project prefeasibility and feasibility study
and are intended to provide accurate cost esimate for the project. For the Inner Ring
Road Stage 2, this process started from 1991. The third survey, usually conducted before
acwal implementation, is completed by district-level consuctiotn compaies, and provides
the basis for making final compensation and resetetement aranement.   ed on the
surveys, a resettement acton plan was submitted to the Bank in October 1992.
20.         Given the tight schedue of the nner Ring Road Project, programmed to be
completed in 1995, project implementation including resettement work will be orgnized
by district.  For those districts where project design has aeady been finalized,
implementation could start early, including detailed project planning, land and resetement
approvals, and resetdtement implementation. Luwan District was the first ditict to start
resettlement work, with a district resettlement conference held on November 17, 1992.
The whole resetdtement work for the viaduct in Luwan was completed by the end of
December 1992.
21.         One major constraint for implementing the resettement wok is the
availability of resettement housing. The late arrival of completed rsetdement housing
often results in delay of resetdement worlk  For example, the project office orginally
aimed to complete all resettlement work for both the viaduct and crossroads by April 1993.
However, by the end of November 1992, only 40 percent of resetement housing had been
made available. Because of this, the resettlement for the Inner Ring Road Stage 2 will be
divided mto two phases. Phase 1 involves relocation resettlement work for viaduct and
surface roads, while Phase 2 involves demolition and relocation work for crossroads and
other facilities. By April 1993, only Phase 1 resettlement is required to be complete.
Tables 6.9 to 6.11 provides a further breakdown of relocato  and resettement work
according to these two stages. According to curent project schedule, all stemet  for
the viaduct would be completed by April 1993, and the restlmt for other items wil
start in June 1993. Table 6.9 shows the general progress of the Phase 1 
With the exception of the Zabei District where the Gong He Xing Road Interchange was
not finalized until January 1993, all districts have started the implemention procs.
Quite a number of them have already completed the viaduct part of relocation and
resettlement.



-107-                         ANr 6&
Table 6.1: REsM     SUMMARY
Total
Number  Number  Removed lousing  Nonhousing
of    of Work  Floor   Floor    Floor    Acquired
Items          Families   Units   space   Space    Space    Famland
(mW)    (ma)      (in)       (mu)
Inner Ring Road 6,290      560   433,547  184,355   249,192        148
PT Investments     82        4      9,200    4,900     6,500       471
Source: Sanghmai In=r Ring Road Project Office.



-103-                           A
Table 6.2: LAMND REQUISrION AMD RNSmTLEMENT Cosr FOR SHANGHAI
TRAwr COMPANY (SMTP 2 SBMPONENT
(Y'OOO)
Caobao        Yinghang
Items                                 Bus Depot       Bus Depot        Total
Land Requisition                        16.170          16.800        32.2970
Lend Area (mu)                          231            240            471
Unit Coat (yuan/mu)                      70              70            70
Elderly Compensation                     A"              4,200         8.243
Persons per Mu                          0.5            0.5            0.5
Number of Persons                       115             120           236
Cost per person                          35             35             35
Job Creation Cost                        1.270           1.320         2.590
Persons per Mu                          1.1             1.1           1.1
Number of Persons                       254            264            518
Cost per person                           5              5              2
Housing Demolition                         72              754         1.478
Affected Households                      40              42            82
Floor Space (en)                     2,400           2,500          4,900
Cost per m!                            302             302            302
Enterprise Demolition                    1.534           1.746         3.280
Property Cost                        1,479           1,526          3,005
Number of Enterprises                     1               3             4
Floor Space (ma)                     3,200           3,300          6,500
Cost per ml                             462            462            462
Wage Compensation                        55            220            275
lumber of Affected Workers               50            ?00            250
Cost per Worker (yuan)                1,100          1,100          1,100
Other Facilities                         7,616          7.914          1.553
Total Cost                        31.357          32.734         64.091
Source: Shanghai Transit Company.



-109.-                              A      6
Table 63: DImON AND RELOCATION FOR TME ITM  RING ROAD STAGE 2
Non-
lmber    lumber   Housing  housing
of      of Work   Floor    floor   Acquired
Items                Families   Units    space    Space            Land    Farmland
(in)      (Mn)      (mu)        (mu)
Iner Rftu  Road        5,251       560      153,324  249,192        35S         148
On-Site Reeott. /         539         -      16,531          -       25           -
Adamt. Butldins a*        500         -      14,S00          _       21           _
Tots-l             .290      56      184.355  2i9.12          3 Ai
La  Onr-sie reselement reers to more demoL;tion maidng room for relocaing commerci
and serce facilities within the same community.
&   Admadinitation building is to be used by fte Inner Ring Road Administion Agency,
including maintenance, management, and monitoring functions.
Soaun: Shanghai n     Ring Road Project Office.
Table 6.4:  ESEIAL DEMoLIToN AND RELOCAToN FOR
INNER RING ROAD STAGE 2
D"etruit                     Total    No. of  Demolisbed of Which  Floor   Percent
go. of   lumber    Self-    Floor    Privately Spae  Privately
FamiLese Resident Employed   Space       Ownd   Per so   Owned
(m)         m )    (a)       ()
Rin8 l..4           5,251    18,117    320      153,324     95,212   29.20    62.10
Nansbl              313     1,060      32       9,732      3,140  31.09    32.26
Lwaa              1,120     3.864      37      33,312     22,584  29.74    67.80
XU%t                $879    3,033      78      22,051      15,561  25.09    70.S7
Cbaagnla            767     2,646      44      22,714      13,509  29.61    59.47
Putuo                33       114       0       1,053      1,053  31.91   100.00
Zabel               920     3,174      46      28,519     24,923  31.00    87.39
Eongbou             790     2,726      56      23,617      12,518  29.89    53.00
le4agpu             429     1,480      27      12,326       1,924  28.73    15.61
On-Site Reset.        539     1,860       -      16,531     10,731  30.67    64.91
Ad.n. 81dg.           S00     1,725       -      14,500      10,150  29.00    70.00
otal           6.290    21702    320       184.355    116.093  2L.31    06LI
Soer  Shbha Inr Ring Road Prcec Office.



-110-                             M
Table ;.S: DAMOI       nAND RILOCAT[ON OF AmcmD WORK UNYS FOit
DO=  tiG ROAD STAG  2
number of  Dwl.bed   Number of
Affwtd       *loor     Iblplol            M    of A1fl!eed Unfits
District    Units    Space a)         =pod   YiS - hoo   Saii  iIu1M
Nonsbi        17         6,690         189         9       6       -
Luwz          38        28,105         792        24      12       2
Xubul        266        86,027       3,520       241      23       2
CbJangan1     67        23,626       2,616        37      25       3         2
Putuo          6         2,917         141         2       3       1
Zabel         90        28,096       2,080        55      32       3
Honskou       45        24,099       1,340        25      13       6         1
Tagmu         31        49,632         872        18      10       2         1
Total    560       2491.12      15 15011            1 i      1n         1
Som: Sghai I}  Ring Road Project Offioe
Tble 6.6: SHANG"  UUAN                      r SIUATnON: 1971-2
Total
Removed                            Total
1loor    Annual  Growth         Number of   Asnual  Growth
Year              Space    Average   Rate          Households  Average   Rate
5m')      (m)         (X)                                 (X)
1971-75           337,941   67,588                   11,288      2,258
1976-80           872,030  174,406  158.0            29,305      5,861   159.6
1981-85         1,602,212  320,442   83.7            62,485    12,497   113.2
1,986-90        2,035,713  407,143   27.1            73,138    14,628    17.0
1991-92         1,158,579  579,290   42.3            29,699    14,850       1.5
Total"    6.006.475  273.022                  205.915       9.360
Soure: Shanghai Real Etate Bureau.



- 111 -                         A 
Table 6.7: 9W    AI   R           kErWNww AuGUsT 1991 A   S      E    1992
Total
Number of  Number of   Percent    Remaoved       Percent
Issued      m1.ili8    of Total   Floor         of Total
District          Perits    or Units        (2)      Space (se)     (2)
Infrastructure                 3,945       12.7        124,581       8.2
Rousing                       26,244       84.7      1,140,122      74.9
Commercial &
Industrial                     813        2.6        256,832      16.9
Zta1                      1.002      100.0      1.521.80$     100.0
Sowwce Shanghai Real Estate Bureau.
Table 6.8: DAMO       N A RSE N    SCNML    FOR
NNsR RiNG ROAD STAGE 2
Itoms                                              Schedule
1. Feasibility Study                                  Jan 1991 to Apr 1992
2.  Desisn Survey                                          May to Sep 1992
3.  Resettlement lousing Construction                 Jan 1991 to Jan 1993
4.  Project Approval                                  Sep 1992 to Dec 1993
S. Dmolition for Viaduct Construction                 Oct 1992 to Apr 1993
6.  Demolition for Administration luilditg            Apr 1993 to Oct 1993
7.  Requisition of Temporary Construction Site        Apr 1993 to Sep 1993
8.  Demolition for Side Roads                         Jun 1993 to Dec 1993
9.  Resettlement Housing for Units                    Nov 1992 to Oct 1994
Sowre: Shan        Inner Ring Road Project Office.



-112-                          A
Table 6.9: DmIIInON OF RELOCAION AND RESMENT FOR
INNER RING ROAD STAGE 2
Items                             Phase I           Phase 2          Total
Number of Families                  2,474             2,777          5,251
RQmoved Housins (a!)               87,000            66,300        153,300
Affected Work Units                   436               124            560
Removed Floor Spaco (m')          194,000            55,200        249,200
Land Requisition (mu)                 217               118            335
Soure: Shanghai Iner Rig Road Proect Office.
Tabk 6.10: RESIErIUA&L RELOCATION FOR INNER RING ROAD STAGE 2
Total     Stase I              Percent       Date of
Relocated  Relocated  Percent   Completion  Resettlement
District        Families   Pamilies   of Total   by Mar 1  Conference L&
Nanshi              313          4       1.3       100.0
LuWwan            1,120        658      58.8       100.0       11/16192
Xuhui               879        540      61.4        70.0       02/15193
Changaing           767        318      41.5       100.0       02/05193
PutuO                33          0       0.0
Zabei               920        248      27.0         0.0       03/05/93
Eougkou             790        316      40.0        90.0       02/05/93
Y8angU              429        390      90.9       100.0       02/05/93
Total        5.251      2.474      47.1
La  The reselement conference is held by fte distict government to formally inform the
public, partcularly the affected residents and work units, on the scope of the prqject,
compensation policies, and detiled schedule of rettlement process.
Source: Shanghai Inner Ring Road Project Office.



- 113 -                          SNB:
Table 6.11:    NSS RELOCATON FOR INMER IG ROA DSTAGE 2
Total                               Percent      Date of
Relocated    stage I      Percent    Completion  Ps3ettlement
District  Enterprises Demolition  of Total L1   by Mar 1   Conference
Banshi          17           0           0.0
Luvan           38          54         142.1                    11116192
Xuhui          266         178          66.9        75.0       02101/93
Chapgning       67          77         114.9       100.0        11127/92
Putuo            6                       0.0
Zabel           90          59          65.6                   03/05/93
Nongkou         45          60         133.3                   02/05/93
Tangpu          31          38         122.6                   02105/93
Total      Q          46           AL
La Because the district resettement office uses different definition for counfting the
number of affeced units, which considers the small shops or branches by one
institution as sepaatd work units, the number of affectd work units is much higher
tm  the number provided by the city resettlement office. But the total amount of
demolition and numba of affeced employees are still the same.
Souwr: Shanghai Inne Ring Road Project Office.



-114-                                            ARM1
I1l 71
PROJECT COST ESTlMATES
Prqjc Cos Summa  withi Contingemnies by Comonent (Y MNllion)
A.  IMn., RAW.    -0ad State                 L i.a%a.i    ...    wz.l   1,    _49.4               _           w._...
k r                                            Ax   1.".*    1s467.t X47w7.1 1X4.l 249-4 ,J-4 4 
U:. load  a.ty Coat.,                            9.0       5.0     14.0      1.0       2.1     0.2      2.         17.1
aS. efIt.    _      t                          109.)      5.2          140.5   1is    55.6     4.7    40.8    214.8
w. -e.,IA                                                            .pxW ;7771 ; B
Ca:  aIn    De                                  47.7      32.9     80.5      7.4      12.4     2.2    14.8    102.7
C3. CL.",   hoge                                 7.0       4.8     11.6      1.1       1.8     0.)      2.1      15.0
"   S1 w           .pp,.0.0                               6.                                        0.0       4.t
ffiffi. Sruti41_   8c         0.0       1.7       1.7     0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0       1.7
'X3. T=sgper  P   gs4  Su-port                  0.0       0.9       0.9      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.9
D4. Pr _   ag               enI                  0.0       0.9      0.9      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0       0.9
D5.      _it  ActI a P         p8                0.0       1.4      1.4      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0       1.4
?otal  125.1   ,41.g3  L142.4   194.8  111.9    94.M   404.6  3.74.7
Al. Inner Ring Road StUe 2 (Y Mill)
sonat  tp e    TT.h         YU          ac _Ota l
&hV-Imalist. 4tEt                 tA          M    9.4 WI                                     12.14   044
l."ettle.m                        IA         197.0    111.4    $28.4       0.0      21.4     4.1    25.7    $54.1
UtlUtles r.loeetit                VA         139.8    106.5    264.3    26.6        19.3     3.4    22.9    315.8
eiui il                                            7 i   4 4 roe4 Wf  14                        4  44AR4
USMlbr  {B)                              4.0       ?82 1.182.    1X. 1484? IN                    969 1.9
Other Voriwe*,L4 UO                           94.9      23.7   1U8.6    11.9        4.7      5.2    46.9    177.4
Material.                                        0.0    254.1    254.1       0.        0.0     11   4 f         247.2
=Uii! 5ItIoaay Prowea c                                A1 UIT    1317                Hu    i UU  TT 
bitamen                         208          0.0      25.l      25.4     0.0       0.0      1.0     1.0      24.4
teel dICD                                    0.0    2)0.7   2U0.7        0.0       0.0    10.1    10.1    240.8
92&smtiaull, Procurod:                   1      8;          T      1T                  II      44                19.7
malueneac. 4p5=.                103          0.0      4.0       4.0      0.0      0.0      0.5      0.5      4.5
moultoring EqIpmt               103          0.0      12.1      12.1     0.0       0.0      1.1     1.1      13.2
Localy Pocureis                                4.1       4.3      8.6      0.0       1.5     0.4      1.9      10.5
ualatev"c Eqailpent             Les          4.3       4.3       6.4     0.0       1.5      (.4     1.9      10.5
hdaleerfacts         14?-s         t       41 16.4    0.924             0.      24.4 19.
16          A > a;    1;11      961,         IV,    1141    ZM    44        109.1
Desija. Eeeear.h, S1Urvey         at          47.1       0.0     47.1      0.0       6.0     0.0      6.0      73.3
telltruetittn  8Up lon       ai *9.3                0.0      9.3      0.9       2.4     0.0      2.4      11.6
_____                               1.309.4  1.447.?  2.777.1   144.2    249._4   804-.  _32   P.275.4



ItX    I  1-XiQ   I                                         9 1!                  I              11 1-1                           I
. ....   .                            ...
.9.. 9..                                ........99,.
_-*-e.-w2                                  oooov eoo                                                                 -4eooo                   .43*0.~       vo
_ if.9if*if4   i4                                                                    XfOi-if                                                 * .40if
____                                                              @-~~.........-..9.9...9 ..49- .9ifff4.4                         ......*if 
l~~~I  In         II    I3                         GO    II    0   |1    ~~-~:       IV3||||1  
@l .0il00i0 S                                  if1i                   Hal    $-11
j!                                                                                                         -.                               -
i ~               _                                                                                                     143                                 II :- ==       k
}~~~~.i            g   1I  lX l i *o   ,.



- 116 -                                     &INNEX.7
Table   .
B. TrfIc Maaeetand safet CY MI"lon
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tot
1344~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ am                                              _
B..lu.tal                               1 t4  14.  14    A               14      10     14      14
Cg X   $t   UI  0.?  0.2    0.0             0.3O-$    0.0    1.2    4.3
~~   ~14  114    8~14      8.4    84      144       .
Ni         t 1.4    1.4     1.?  0.0    O          0.1    0.4      5.1
C.  t   w    }0)    0.3     0.6    0.0      041    0.0   0@1        0.7
-1       .      0.      0.0    0.4    0.4    12.4
La    Z r1 _ .0  L 4        5       0.0     0.:0    0.3    0.3      5.7
Coutrol Room equI39p                             :9     0.0      0.     0a      0.2      441
p.    taDboL0.0                                07      0.7    0.0 0.0 0. 0.0                    0.4
boutdIatteo aezylee        LU         0.0      1       1.7    0.0       0.0    0.1    0.1       1.0
W-  4.1    1 :    4  . N '   4
mitur fPA0.5                                   la      1.0    1.0      0.1     0.0 0.1         1.1
Insane:. proosanow                      1.5     1.3      1.0    0.0      0.4    0.1    0.4       3.
SlmIAtov. eam p-tar        I          04       0.7              0        2     0.0    0.2       1.4
IS         0.6     0.4      1.4    0.0      0.2    0.0    0.2       1.0
VA                 M 414 484814814848#
843~~~484 148$54    4 40.0 i
U<1ep                       PA                         -4                                      R       
;wn pXg   1.  0.0  0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0
toe.  ord.                              0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0                     0.0      0.0
I=tp*goI                                .       0.0     O0.0O    0.0    0.00            0.0     0.0
ot.  , " .                   nJ      ".2~~fl  120.4    j2-    t$-                    255.1
-wifgroNW fti    | t .4 *# .2 4 9W4  M s a m   94M
=1iin            *        1        t       na          it   19 17. s       LI    9A  .35



- 117-                                       A3S
ITal 7.4
C. Public Isport InWSWn  ( MillionM
UP      ~~~1.9   1        31      0.       0.       . 2            2.7
_m        48 48.8 4    1.4  14.  H.   44
_ _              14,,, _. _       .4 _   4 _     4      4
LI         2j       2.2     6.5    0.0       I.0,     .      1         .
0.0  0.0    ~~0.0    0.0     @.*    0.       00        .
KS   0.0      0.0      0.0 00 0.0    0.0        0.0             0.0
AW"                             N~~ H.  N.  04  44  4.4  44  4.4
C2. CTi7nJ ,~ . af                                                            UA       2
N  N  8 1.a444444
0.0lt  0t.8      0.0    0.0       0.0    0.1      0.0      0.0
G S Sood and QN -ote-@
t  18      0.0      0.0      0.     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      t0.
tatetbt.1                              94el  0-  0-0  00  4 4 14             
to         0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0    0.     0 0.0
89"           wavgL            *tU         1.4     0.9      +4      0        0.4     0.4    0.        2.0
"I_                            Pa 4                         14   I
Ct.XV et44X780 7f 14441444102.6
.  "s. ttfV '               K          R.      1 _ 7Y;
WI         0.2      0.0                                       0.1     0.
0.0141        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.      0.0     0.0
Le         0.0      0.0     4.$     0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0
0.eX oad Xbt d 2A *.0                             0.0      .2a
^ wrZ~~~~~~~~s                 0.       N        s        o'1
"am nmi                                  14 14 44              -4 4W g               4  f.E  .2
ORAMM                             9h.a    G a    JUa         15    .1 26             RJZ    107.6



i4    WA        Xl-e 3
6-1           I   e0000  3
3 po=oo 0
.q4 3Eo X
@0004;e
@00000@
X 3E-oe- 3
1     0000.
9 00X1
WI
@00000.
II



PROJECT MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
Shanghai Municipal Leading Group
for the
City's Major Engineering Projects
PROJECT  ltENT&TION UNIT
Shanghai Municipal Engineering
Construction Company (SeCC)
Parts A, Di
Shanghai           Shanghai          Shanghai City       Shangha City         Shanghai Shanghai
Public            Municipal         Comprehensive        Planning and      Environmental      Transit
Security          Engineering          Transport             Design          Scientific
Bureau         Administration         Planning             Research          Research
Department             Institute          Institute           Institute
Parts 51, B2       Parts B3, D4           Part D3             Part D2             Part D5        Part C
Part A of the Project refers to the Inner Ring Road Stage 2
Part 3 of the Project refers to the Traffic Management and Safety component, compriaintg
B1, Traffic Signal Control
B2, Road Safety Center
B3, Traffic anagement Program
Part C of the Project refers to the Public Transport Investment component
Part D of the Project refers to the Technical Assistance Program, comprising:
Dl, Project Management Support
D2, Traffic gMangement Support
D3, Transport Planning Support
D4, Pavement Mbangement System Design
D5, Environmental Action Plan Support



- 120 -                           A       8
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SUMARY
Beneficiary   Est.   gstlat.d   gotimnt.d
Item       Description        agency        P-Via     start    cost ($'000)
Di    Project Management        s8ECC       15     Early 1994       300
Support
D2     Traffic Management        SCPDRI    1S      Mid-1994         300
Support
D3     Transport Planning        SCCTPI      8     Mid-1994         150
Support
D4    Pavement Management        SEKAD       4.5   Mid-1994         1501b
System Development
D5    Environmental Action       SESRI      12     Early 1994       240
Plan Support
La Person-months.
k  Including costs of taining.
SMECC = Shanghai Municipal Enlgering Construction Company
SCPDRI = Shanghai City Planning and Design Research istute
SCCTPI = Shanghai City Comprenive Transport Planning Instiute
SMEAD = Shanghai Municipal Engineeing Administration Department
SESRI  = Shanghai Environmental Sciences Research Institute



* 121 -                               11LK
IMPLiEMENATION SCEEDULE
1993    1994    1995    1996   1M
A. Innr UiN load Stage 2
Acq, Dam, Rettle, Utils            _
Croud.Levl _oam
Vladuct53
Other voh                             ____ __ -
il. Trafic Masnanmt an4 Safet
11. rafic 81fl Control                                      - __ _
32. Road Safety Cente-
33. Traffic  m at Program                                     -        -
C. ImbUg Trannrt IM6eatmepts
Cl. Ceobao Depot                                             -
C2. Tinabn Dept                                 U  _
CS. Cmin lnecbn                                            _ l
D, TeGUChIcd Assistsnce
Dl. Project I-anagm t Support
D2. Traffic Ianagement Suprt
D3. Tnsport Planning Suort
DM. Pa_umt 1N4t. Sptg. Deela4
D5. IUP support                                                        m



- 122 -                          AMN=  9
DISBURSEMENT PROFILE AND EXPENDMTURE FLOWS
DCOMW PROMSL
Semaeter   Cumulative   Project   Beak profile Li
(_$ million) ----    ---------- (S) ----------
im
Jun. 30, 1994            28.3         28.3         18.9             8.0
December 31, 1994        20.0         48.3         32.2            12.0
June 30, 1995            19.6         67.9         45.3           22.0
im
December 31, 1995        22.0         89.9         59.9            42.0
June 30, 1996            21.5        111.4         74.3           58.0
mx
December 31, 1996        20.0        131.4         87.6           62.0
June 30, 1997            18.5        149.9         99.9           67.0
December 31, 1997         0.1        150.0        100.0           69.0
June 30, 1998             -          i50.0        100.0           72.0
Decembr 31, 1998         -          150.0        100.0            77.0
:une 30, 1999             -          150.0        100.0           80.0
ZQD
December 31, 1999         -          150.0        100.0           91.0
June 30, 2000             -          150.0        100.0          100.0
La  Standard disbursement profile for the ubn sector in China isued in August 1993.
Note. Asmumes Board date in October 1993; Completion Date: xDecember 31, 1997;
Closing Date: December 31, 1998.



- 123 -AN=2
labl 9.2
ELMb bftu=Mntlbyh         D 41444  14 Sa 4X    1 ilion                   14 0.0
coomoswA t     _                                  vaxw  *vroam  -  _ 
C_ _=  Ai   o to2W    UAW6     dW-1 MAM                                   r.  M      wg
h f.* sU-tm  lo90*dod              14  H2.      8 94 u-4   NS. I?!v.IS4        .7  N., H       
;;: -1r4-nia    zc,7               0   0.0  10.0  1.7  4.0  1:   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0  0 0
33. Trafte  ahn                    0.0  0.0  ".9  0.0  58.   6.7  44.7  7.1  47.4  7.7 0.0  0.0
c7 bp'Mht                     IM. 144414  >I  N4 o4   14  N 44 0.0
el. T                             17.7  0.0  32.4  1.8  15.4  7.5  21.8  14.5  0.4  14 0.0  0.0
es. Cas t toaaqp                   0.0  0.0  6.6  0.7  4.6  1.0 0.0  0.3  0.0  0.0 0.0  0.0
12.      Kma~at SuppoiS            0.0  0.0  0.0  0.3  0.0  0.7  0.0  0.7
PS. Transport flbanlep SuPA        0.0  0.0  0.0  0.4  0.0  0.4  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0  0.
34. PawusmS Itanagt trainIng       0.0  0.0  0.0  0.4  0.0  0.4  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0 0.0
PS. _UtEIint581    1tu  opp.zt     0.0  0.0  0.0  0.4  0.0  0.1  0.0  0.1  0.0  0.7 0.0  0.0
1*. P                                                          S30.0
Al  inner   a  Road Stage 2 (Y Million)
R=endlture Flow tS-ver Calendar Yegr)
Comonent                                    1993     1994   1995    1996   1997    1998
Ac. Dm  1eett. Utt"                         LI  0   223.1    0. 0       j    0.0      0.0
Dolitio                                    80.02   20.02
Iesettlomst                                80.02   20.02
Utilitles relocatioa                       80.02   20.02
'      =1U Iftrks IM-a 1                             47.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Crowd L         Roaft_                     $680.02   20.0X   0.02    0.02   0.0%    0.02
C.1l  Works (1m2) 38                                142.7  459.9   358.1  302.8       0.0
Viaduct, IC,                               10.02   20.02  35.02   25.02  10.02    0.02
Other Works, 1I                             0.02    0.02   0.02   10.02  90.01    0.02
EhS.rilal                                    94.3    18Z    94.2      Q4    0. 0      0.0
Internationally Proeureds                  94.3    ?8.7   94.2      0.0    0.0      0.0
Iltn                                     50.02   25.02  25.02    0.02   O.O    0.02
steel                                    34.32   30.02  35.82    0.02   0.02    O.O0
gg2A1                                         L94     9       0.0    30.2    Q4 O      .
Internationally Procud                      0.0     0.0    0.0    19.7    0.0       0.0
Maintenane eSquipment                     0.02    0.02   O.O  100.02   0.02    0.02
monitoring  lquivUt                       0.02    0.02   0.02  100.02   0.02    0.02
Locally Procureds                           0.0     0.0    0.0    10.5    0.0       0.0
Maintenance Bqu4mst                       O.O    0.02   O.O0   100.02   0.02    0.02
lInnemXin  and Adds105.    36.1   38.6    13.6    1.5                                 0.0
Admln  sn Pr4mvement                       30.02   30.02  30.02   10.02
Deign, Research, Surwey                   100.02
Conetruction Suevilon                      20.02   30.02  30.02   10.02  10.02
TOTAL                          1.444.1   532.7  592.6   371   304.2        0.0



- 124 -                                  ANNB 4
MR VUduct  n  ( 
EsDsoditure Plow (2 Per Calendar Year)
Coponennt                                   1993      1994   1995    1996   1997    1998
Contract 2.2                                 10.01   20.02  35.01   25.0?  10.01
Contract 2.2                                 10.02   20.02  35.01   25.02  10.01
Contract 2.3                                  10.02   20.0S  35.02   25.0%  10.0O
Contract 2.4                                 10.02   20.02  35.02   25.O  10.02
Contract 2.5                                  10.02   20.02  35.02   25.02  10.02
Contract 2.6                                  10.01   20.02  35.02   25.0  10.02
Contract 2.7                                  10.01   20.01  35.02   25.02  10.02
Contract 2.8                                  10.0?   10.02  35.0S   25.0?  10.02
Contract 2.9                                  10.O   20.02  35.02   25.02  10.02
Contract 2.10                                 10.OS   20.02  35.02   25.02  10.O0
Contract 2.11                                 10.01   20.02  35.02   25.02  10.0O
Contract 2.12                                 10.0   20.02  35.02   25.02  10.02
MR Gn4JmLE Cm(LM ilhKAno
_ Exoenditure Plow (2 per ClndJagr Iear
Component                                   1993      1994   1995    1996   1997    1998
Contract 1.1                                 80.02   20.01
Contract 1.2                                 80.02   20.02
contract 1.3                                 80.02   20.02
Contract 1.4                                 80.02   20.02
Contract 1.5                                 80.02   20.02
Contract 1.6                                 80.0?   20.02
Contract 1.7                                 80.02   20.02
Contract 1.6                                 80.02   20.02
Contract 1.9                                 80.02   20.02
Contract 1.10                                80.02   20.02
Contract 1.11                                80.02   20.02
contract 1.12                                80.02   20.02
Contract 1.13                                80.02   20.02
Contract 1.14                                80.0?   20.02
Contract 1.15                                80.02   20.01
Contract 1.16                                80.02   20.02
Contract 1.17                                80.02   20.02
Contract 1.18                                80.0S   20.02
Contract 1.19                                80.0S   20.02
Contract 1.20                                80.02   20.01
Contract 1.21                                80.02   20.02
Contract 1.22                                80.02   20.02
Contract 1.23                                80.0?   20.01
Contract 1.24                                80.02   20.02



- 12S-                                AIi
Tabe3 (ced)
MRk the Wodks Can=mt (X HMilin
c-qwmat                                  1993    1994  1995   1996   1997   1i9t
1.25  Slow* *ISnIl IlI=n                                         10.02  90.02
1.26  lU.ht=a I0.02  90.0
1.27   &mlz h1ldka810.0  90.0S
1.28  outall _m. cebI.                                           10.02 O 90.01
1.29  Ibtel mll n. devnee                                        10.02  90.01
1.30  lItll pinT OupplT                                          10.02  90.01
IRi Goods and Matas COta    (Y M ")
zmoengdture jlow (1 Uer Caledar Year)
Ccoaeut                                  1993    1994  1995   1996  1997   1998
2.13 Ittume                               30.02   25.01  25.03
2.14  Steel                               34.32   30.01  35.81
2.15  nute         1ulusbat                                     100.02
2.16 Monitoring Zqul4pmsut                                      100.0O
1.31 Nalateusce Squlpmout                                       100.0O



- 126 -                                 ANN    2
Ible 9.4
B. Traffic Manageme and S_e (. M.i'
Ixuendittar-Plow t1 car Calenoas Tear)
Component                                   1993     1994   1995    1996   1997    1996
i. Area Traff2c Control
Work                                         -0 0.0 20 ..
Controller installatlon                                 80.0S   20.02
Cable  nstallation                                      80.0:   20.0S
Gcod8 and_aterI aZ                                  LA Q.           la     0.       0.
LoCally proonrod:                         0.0     1.8    1.9      0.0    0.0      0.0
Signal equipment                               SO.OS  50.02
Com. peripherals                               50.01  50.02
Internet. procureds                       0.0     S.4    6.2      0.7    O.C     0.0
Signal Controllers                             50.O  50.02
Control Rom equip                              50.02  50.02
41dios                                         50.02  50.02
nstallation services                           10.02  50.01   40.02
Ace. Dem. Ueoett. Util0                             1.9    0.0    a&2    LI         LI
Total                                           100.O2
32. Road SafetY Research Center
W2kt                                         LI0  Li                0.0L 094  09
Conetruct budlding                               50.02  SO.02
Goode-and Materials             t4                          2.3     00    0.0       0.0
Locally procured:                         0.0     0.6    0.6      0.0    0.0     0.0
Furniture, fitting.                            50.O  50.01
Internat. procureds                       0.0     1.7    1.7      0.0    0.0     0.0
Simulator, computers                           50.02  50.02
Aca. Dem. Resettt ptils                     0.0     6.2    Q Q      0.0    g. 
Total                                           100.01
B3. Traffic Mananement Pronra
Works                                       0.0     0.0   9.9    18.8  Z0.5        94
First package                                           33.02   33.02  34.02
Goods and Materiasl                         0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     940
Locally procured:                         0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
First package                                  30.02  30.02   20.02  20.02
Internat. procured:                       0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0
First package                                  30.02  30.02   20.02  20.02
Ace. Do.. Resett. Util                      0.0    44.9   47-1    32.9   34.6       0.
First package                                    30.01  30.02   20.02  20.02
Gzand Tot*l                        0.0 L I5       8       53.9 -    5.1    Q.O



- 127 -ANN  
IkLe9.s
C. Public Transort b=vestments (X Millionl
h9enditure Play (2 per Caletdar Yeesr)
Component                                  1993     1994   1995    1996   1997    1998
C1. Caobao Deuot                           Id    13.5   22Z    18.8    00          Lg
Ace. Dem. Resett. Utils                   35.1     1.7   L.3      1.5   O.        0.0
Land requisition                       100.02
Utility relocation                     100.02
AuvtIlliary englneering                         30.02  *0.02  30.01
Wg!                                        0.0    11.3   15.9    12.S    0.0      _.0
TotAl                                           30.01  40.01   30.02
Goods and MaterialS                        L.      0.0    3.8     4.0    0.0     gB
Locally procureds                        0.0     0.0    3.8     4.0    0.0     0.0
Equipment                                            50.01   50.01
internt t. procured:                     0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0
Equipment                                            50.01   50.01
XnUMneerInE and Admln                      0.0 Q          0.6     o. s     .0    0.0
Admia and Procurement                           30.0  40.01   30.01
=-2. xta EboM  Devot                   IL.      24.2   22.8   36.3    1.7      0.0
Acg_ Dem. Rgett. Utio                     17.7Z   19.3  2L3    Ill   0.0         0.0
Land requlsltlon                       50.01   50.02
Utlity relocation                       50.01   50.01
Auxlliary eangineering                          10.01  40.01   50.01
WorkL 0.0                                          4A.Z   19.9   26.0    0.0     0.0
Total                                           10.01  40.02   50.02
goodo and Materials                        0.0     0.0    0.0     6.4   1.7    0L0
Locally procured:                        0.0     0.0    0.0     6.4    1.7     0.0
Equlpment                                                    80.02  20.0S
Iateroat. procureds                     0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0
Equipment                                                    80.01  20.01
Inaineerina and Admtn                      0.0     0.2   0.6      0.8    0.0     0.0
Admin and Procurement                           10.02  40.01   50.02
C3. C3axt Iaterebanne                        0.0     7.3    6.5     1.1    0.0     0.0
Aco. Dem. Resett. Utle                     0.0     5.3    1.8     0.3   QB Q       .0
Lad requisition                                100.02
Utility relocation                             100.02
Aurilliary englneering                          30.02  60.02   10.0S
Works                                      g0.     1.9   4.1      0.7    0.0      0.0
Total                                           30.02  60.02   10.01
GoodsandkJ  Nterla;f                       0-C2.0         0.5     0.1 0i         -2
Locally pr cur"t                         0.0     0.0    0.5     0.1    0.0     0.0
Equipment                                            90.02   10.02
Internt t. procureds                     0.0     0.0    0.0     0,0    0.0     0.0
Equipment                                            90.01   10.01
La0.0    L.     L      0.0    0.0     0.0
Adoln and Proeureheut                           30.01  60.01   10.01
GPMDIOA                          52.8    45.0  52.0    56.2    1.7       0.0



- 128 -                                  ANN
.Technical A.tU   (Y MMi
_ Emondlturo Plow l2 nor Calendar Year)
componet                                     1993      1994   1995    1996   1997    1998
?ecbnical  es" itace                           0.0      2.9    34       1.2 23          P.O
DI. Project Management support                         40.02  40.02   20.02
D2. Traffic MSnagement Support                         20.0S  40.02   40.02
D3. Transport Pl Snning Support                        50.02  5O.O0
04. Pavement Management Sy.tem Dealg                   50.02  50.02
DS. Iuviroumental Actlon Plan Support                  30.02  10.02   10.02  50.02
TOTAL                               Q.0      2.     24       1.2    gj       g.
Nowe Pfie coutigecy * iaxd  fm  TA, but remun with   umt.



- 129 -                               AN=    10
SUPERVISION PLAN
mission                                                                                    LA
date                      main activity                       Skills           Staff-week.
Mar 94    Implementation Review, with emphasis ont       Procurement                  8
loan effectiveness                        Transport Plannjig
procuremeat procedures                    Enagneering
coustructlon progress
preparation of traffic management
strategy
preparations for TA
Oct 94    Supervisions emphasising:                      Traffic Management          12
construction progress                     Engieering
TA progress:                              Transport Planning
traffic management strategy
SCCTPI support
ZAP support
preparation for Strategic PT planning
Mar 95    Supervision, emphasisings                      Transport Planning          12
eaviroamental monitoring                  Traffic Management
1IP subproject desiga                     Environmental
PT investments
strategy on vehicle emisslons
Plan for VIM
Oct 95    Supervision, emphasisings                      Transport Planning           8
construction progress                     Engineering
Mar 96    Supervision, emphasizing:                      Transport Planning           6
ml implementation                         Traffic Manageneat
Environmeatal aspects                     Environmental
Oct 96    Supervision, emphasizing,                      Transport Planning           4
construction progress                     Engineeriog
Mar 97    Supervislon, emphasising:                      Transport Planning           4
environmental monitoring                  Environmental
Oct 97    Project Completion Supervision                 Transport Planning          tO
Engineering
Traffic Management
Transport Economics
Lotald64
InIcuin  iea haduares



- 130 -                       AN        1
PROJECT MONITORING INDICES
This annex presents an :nitial list of monitoring indicators tht will be used
by the implementing agencies and the Project Implementoton Unit (PIM) as a tool to plan
and valuate the progress and results of the project. The List may be modified during the
course of the projec, reflet  the experience in its use and redefinition of maagement
needs. Any significant departu    from plans will be noted, causes analyzed, and
conrective actions recommended. The PIU will report a summary of the evalion and
recommendations to the Project Leading Group and, mainly through the quartery progress
report, to the Bank. Where applicable, indicators wull be enumerated cumulatively as well
as for the peiod concemed.
1.          Preparation and Procurement Status. For each of the procurement
pacages planned, note the type of procurement, the number of lots, total cost, and planned
and acual dates of the detailed steps as follows:
*    Completion of final engineering design or terms of reference;
e     Compleion of bid (and, if applicable, prequalification) documents;
3     Approval by SMCC
*     Submission of bid documents to the Bank, if applicable, and no objection
received;
-     Adverdsement, letter of invitation, request for quotation;
-     Prebid conference;
*     Bid closing and evaluation;
*     Submission of evalution report to the Bank, if applicable;
*     Contact signing;
*     Start of work or delivery; and
*     Completion.
2.          physcl Implementation. Progress of works or goods delivery under
signed contracts and major elements of the contracts (for example, number of traffic
signals installed) will be monitored, noting the SAR estimates, contr  estimates, and
actual delivery of the following:
*     Quantity delivered or finished (e.g., meters of IRR viaduct), and percent of
total;
*     Expenditures incurred and paid, and percent of total;
*     Quality ratings, 1 for excellent to 5 for major problem;
*     Dates of inspection and name of inspecting officers; and
*     Dates of intermediate and final completion.



- 131 -                       ANNEX 1
3.          Traffic Management Plan (TM.  The TMP under the Traffic
Management and Safety component will be prepared during implemenaion.  1e
following sts will be monitored during TM! preparadon:
*     Refinement of the tffic   ment strategy, which sets the frmework
for the definition of individual subprojects;
*     Identification of individual subprojects with description, costs, estimated
benefits, tfic estimates, assessment of environmental and resettlement
ssues;
*     Presentation of subprojects for Bank approval with costs, engineering plans,
deails ofjusdfication, RAP and EAP when apprriate, and impntaton
program.
4.          Tehnal Assistace (TA). The following events under each TA will be
noted as they occur or as they are due:
i     Names and specialties of consultants, counterpart staff, days worked or
etpected to work, and any deparre from plan or contact and action tkn;
*     Fees paid and other expenses, compared with plan;
*     -Dates of reports, planned snd actual;
*     Topics covered and topics omitted;
*     Main findings and recommendations;
*     Main comments by the responsible task force, division, and by the Bank;
and thuir dates;
*     Plan and actual dates and costs to implement the recommendattons.
S.           eslemn. Preparation, implementation, and results of each phase of
the remnt will be monitored as follows:
*     Number of housing units required, planned and actual number constructed,
estimated and actual number chosen and seted in, by types, size and
locaton;
*     Planned and actl dates the selection and settlement steps were sted and
oompleted; planned and acal costs;
*     Evaluation of the process for a sample of households within three months
of resettlement operaton; and
*     Evaluation of the new housing and public facilities for a sample of
households; and any change in housing, job, and other significant
socioeconomic traits of the sample households after about a year.
6.          Summary of Expenditures and Disbursement, and outstanding invoices,
by component, category and procurement type; withdrawal and replenishment of the
Special Account.



- 132-                                12
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. ANALYSIS OF PRojEC BENUITS
1.         An economic analysis has been prepared for the Inner Rlng Road (IRR)
Stage 2, the main component of the project comprising 90 percent of project finacing.
None of the other components of the project can be analyzed quantitadvely, although the
subcomponents of the traffic management program will be subjected to economic scrutiny
by Shanghai, before they submit subprojects, and by the Bank, before a -no-objecdon' is
given for their inclusion in project financing. At present, none of the subcomponents of
the traffc maagement program is ready for economic evaluation.
2.          Savings in road user costs are the economic benefits that have been
estmated. These consist of savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC) and savings in the
cost of psengers time. VOC include fuel, tires, vehicle maintenance and depredation,
imsurance, and labor, for the main vehicle types in use in Shanghai (five classes of
vehicles). The cost of time was calculated based on average passenger occupancy for each
vehicle type. Both VOC savings and time cost savings result from a reduction in delays
and an increase in speed as a result of project investments.
3.          The Economic Justification section of the main text of this report gives the
general economic arguments in favor of the project, and this annex will not repeat these
arguments. Instead, this annex will discuss the major lines of quantitative analysis, and
the key assumptions made, in calculating the 20 percent economic rate of return (ERR)
shown in the text. This annex will also discuss sensitivity tesing to assist in evaluating
the ERR estimate. Annex tables will illustrate the calculations used in the ERR analysis,
but the full set of calculations is too bulky to be printed in this report. All are included
in the project fies.
B. TRtAmc FLOWS AM SPEEDS ON TME INNER RING ROAD
4.          Speed is treated as a function of the load factor (that is, the ratio of traffic
volume to road capacity) on various sections of the viaduct, and as a functions of the load
factor and the distance between intersections for the surface road. Road capacity is
approximately quadrupled by the project. Therefore, speeds are notably improved on the
improved surface road in the with-project situation, as well as on the completely
unimpeded viaduct. Speed calculations were made for various years, using empirically
detrmined speed flow fiunctions developed by Shanghai and evaluated as adequate for the
putpose by consulants assisting in the project analysis. Table I of this annex presents an
example; it shows the calculation of speeds on various sectons of the viaduct for the year
2000.



-133 -                         A     2NNEXI1
S.          Crcal assumptions affcing the ERR are contained in the flow data that
are used in the speed calon. For the basic esmate of the ERR, a taffic growth rate
of 6 percent per year was assumed. This would appear to be a conseaive estimate given
past growth in tfc and in vehicle fleets, and the rapid pret and expected economic
growth in Shanghai. Nevertheless, the taffic growth assumptin is such an important one
that snitivity testing is warnanted. The tisk that tffic will grow slowly, reducing the
rate of retun, is thought to atise mainly from the fact that other major road investnents
in Shanghai may draw potential traffic away from the ring road.
6.          An altemnatve analysis was done to determine a "switching scenario" for
traffic growth, that is, a set of traffic growth assumptions at would result in the project
being barely justified or "switching overe to be nmginaly unjustified. An ERR or
10 percent was taken as the minimum acceptable rate. Thc basic idea of this type of
analysis is to ask whetier the switching scenario is reasonable; if highly unliely
unfavorable assumptions are required to produce an in  rate of retun, the ERR can
be judged to be robust, at least in regard to this variable. This sensitivity test used patterns
of reasonable early growt (6 percent per year) in taffic, which slowed or reversed in later
years.  Tis pattern conforms to the concerns that other investments or unforeseeable
oth  event will makm the IRR less attrawtive.) Growth of at least 6 percent in the early
years appears to be prcally inevitable. The later decline could result from economic
stagnation, or from other road investments, or from other causes. After swveral iteraons
it was found that a pattern of 6 percent growth in the first five years of the benefit period
(that is, from 1995-2000) with a subsequent smooth absolute decline over the next 10 years
to return to the 1995 taffic level by the year 2010, would produce a just adequate ERR
of 10 percent (see Table 5, column i). Since this highly unlikely and unfivorable
assumption about the patten of growth and major decline still produces a just acceptable
return, we can fairly conclude that any reasonable growth assumption would produce an
acceptable ERR. In practical trms, the heavy urban road invemets in Shanghai's
medium-term lending program do not seriously treaten the ERR of this proect
C. SPEEDS AM VECLE OPRAnN  COm
7.          VOC decline as speeds increase throughout the range of speeds that will be
realized on the IRR. Table 2 shows a sample calculations of VOC related to speed, for
the improved surface road in the year 2010. The speed/cost fimctions result in calculated
costs at vanous speeds that are considerably lower than those esimated by others in
evaluating other recent investments. If the VOC included here are on the low side, the
diffences in VOC (hat is, the benefit esmates) will be on the low side and this will give
a consative bias to the ERR estimate. No sensitivity test is required, as there is no
critical assumption in this phase.
D. VEHiCLE OEAING Comn An  TOTA VOC SAVINGS
8.          The previous secton produced vehicle operaing costs per kilometer, for
each class of vehicle, for each secion of the ring road, corresponding to the different
lengths and load factors and hence speeds on each section. It remains only to aggregate



- 134-                        A       12
VOC for each segment in the with prQject case (an improved surface road and a viaduct)
and the without-project case (an unimproved surface road). Table 3 presents a sample
calculaion, showing the compilation of total VOC for the without-proect case for 1995.
9.          The distribution of traffic in the with-project case was assumed to be about
65 percent on the viaduct and 35 percent on the improved surface road, with buses and
articulated buses exclusively on the surface, and the rest of the traffic shared. (Obviously,
this same assumption was used for the traffic speed and flow stage of the analysis.) This
results in the roughly equal crowding of the improve surface road and the viaduct over
time, in the with-project case. Theoretically, a cost equization model between the
surface and the viaduct (constrained to keep buses and tuming traffic on the surface) would
be attractive, but practicaly there is no need for it in project justification. Such an
assignment model would produce slightly higher VOC savings. Use of the rougher
65 pert and 35 percent assumption, therefore, gives a slight conservative bias to the
calculat  ERR.
10.         While the growing traffic can be absorbed on the improved surface road and
viaduct throughout the period of benefit estimation (that is, for 20 years) the unimproved
rng road in the without-project case quickly saturates. In fact, the probable result would
be seation of the road space, and a drastic reduction in speeds and throughput, as
individuals attempted to use the road with no regard for the increased congestion costs that
this imposed on all others. For purposes of calculation of the ERR, it has been assumed
that speeds in the without-project case never go below 8 km/h, the speed at full capacity
use. Beyond capacity, it is assumed that additional traffic in the without-project case finds
alternative routes, at an additional cost of 25 percent. This assumption surely understates
cost in the without-project case, and probably by quite a lot. Nevertheless, a switching
scenario was sought for this assumption; it was found that, even assuming that overcapacity
traffic could divert at no extra cost from the without-project ring road the project still had
an acceptable return (see Table 5, column ii). The ERR is simply insensitive to any
reasonable assumption about the diversion cost of this extra traffic that could not be
handled on the unimproved ring road.
E. TIM SAVINGS BY PASSENGERS
11.         Using the speeds and flows derived in the analysis above, and the average
passenger loading of vehicles, the passenger hours with and without the project were
calculated. Just over 8 passengers per vehicle was the weighted average for the without-
project travel on the unimproved road. (Resulting from: 2 passengers per automobile; 50
passengers per bus; 75 passengers for reticulated bus; and one passenger each for small
and medium freight vehicles and large freight vehicles.) Since buses in the with-project
case use only the surface road, the average of 8 passengers per vehicle is made up of 21
passengers per vehicle on the surface road and just over 1 passenger per vehicle on the
viaduct.
12.         Several assumptions in this portion of the analysis are very conservative,
corresponding to ordinary Bank practice when evaluating benefits from time cost savings.



- 135 -                       ANN    12
First, only one ird of the hours saved is valued at all. This is meant to approximate the
work trip propordon of total trips over the life of the project. Second, the value of time
is based on the average yearly wage rate of employees. Since much of real income is
nonwage income (for example, company housing, transport allowance, subsidized meals)
this understates the actual value of time. Third, very low growth in real incomes was
assumed: 3 percent per year. Although the bias introduced by these assumptions is surely
downward, a sensitivity test was conducted on the only one of them open to challenge, that
is, the assumption of growing real incomes. It was found that stagnation of incomes, even
combined with cost overruns, still produced an adequate return (see Table 5, column iii).
F. THE EcONOMIC RATE OF REIUN
13.         Table 4 presents the standard Economic Rate of Return calculation. It may
be noted that the benefit period of only 20 years is short for a road project. In a period
of urban flux and dynamism such as Shanghai is experiencing, however, it seemed foolish
to extend mechanical extrapolations for longer than this. For much the same reason, the
value of the road, shown as a negative cost in the last year of the project benefit period,
is only half of the investment cost. The maintenance allowances included in the ERR
calculation are meant to be adequate to preserve the road, so there should be little to
choose, physically, between a new road and the well-maintained 20-year-old road.
Nevertheless, it is possible that time will have passed the road by, at least to some extent.
Such phenomena as increasing suburbanizaton, with travel between suburb and suburb on
some outer nng road, may have reduced the IRR's economic value. Hence the discount.
(The ERR is quite insensitive to this late year difference in benefits.)
G. ALTERNATIYE CALCULATIONS OF ECONOMIC RATES OF RErUIRN
14.        Table 5 includes the alternative calculations discussed above, as well as a
conventional calculation with increased cost. Concerning the latter, it is notable that an
ongoing project, virtually identical to the present one but smaller, is experiencing large
cost savings. Unit cost estimates for that were much lower than those estimated for tiis
appraisal.



- 136-                                AX  12
Table 1: TRAmC FLows AmD SPEDS, SAmpE CALCULATON
VIADUCr ON INE RING ROAD YEAR 2000
Road aeg.nt                                                           )Year 2000 /a
Origin           Destination                                Daily      Hourly    Load   Vehicle
Length    Capacity   traffic   traffic   factor   speed
(astere),&  (pcu/br)  (vehIday.  (peu/br)   (X)    (km/h)
haNft bridge     XinZhaoZhu Rd           936     3,050       7,358       506     16.6    75.01
XinZhaoZhu Rd    ZbiZaoJu Rd             420     3,050      5,253        361     11.8    77.21
ZhlZaoJu Rd      Lulan Rd                618     3,050      6,624        455     14.9    75.77
LuBan Rd         DaPu Rd                 410     3,050       7,048       484     15.9    75.33
DaPf Rd          Tunnel                  100     3,050      6,718        462     15.1    75.67
Tunnel           R4HulDong Rd            278     3,050     12,799        880     28.8    69.62
RitulDong Rd     DaluQiao Rd             580     3,050     12,794        879     28.8    69.63
DaMuQiaa Rd      WanPin Rd             1,580     3,050      16,559     1,138     37.3    66.13
WanPin Rd        Tia=Yaoqiao R           772     3,050      15,123     1,039     34.1    67.44
TianYaoqiao R    LongWu Rd               490     3,050     16,641      1,144     37.5    66.05
LongWu Rd        CaoXi Rd                550     3,050      15,273     1,050     34.4    67.30
Subtotal    Sectieon 1            6.934     3.050
CaoXli Rd        KalXuan Rd              236     3,050      12,178       837     27.4    70.22
KalXuan Rd       YiShan Rd               708     3,050     14,845      1,020     33.4    67.70
YlShan Rd        WuZhong Rd              882     3,050     17,240      1,185     38.8    65.51
WuMZhong Rd      Hongqiao Rd             954     3,050      17,216     1,183     38.8    65.53
HongQiao Rd      YanAn Rd              1,176     3,050     20,140      1,384     45.4    62.96
YanAn Rd         "S.anShan Rd            348     3,050      17,567     1,207     39.6    65.22
TianShan Rd      VuYl Rd                 356     3,050      16,955     1,165     38.2    65.77
WaYi Rd          Changlig Rd             550     3,050      17,692     1,216     39.9    65.11
ChanglNig Rd     Begln PMa. 1          1,280     3,050     22,292      1,532     50.2    61.13
Subtotal    Section 2             6.490     3.050
Begin phase 1    JinShaJiang Rd          420     3,050
JiaSaJlaang Rd   CaoYang Rd            1,000     3,050            PHASE 1 WAS TlE RING ROAD AND
caoYang Rd       WUNing Rd               500     3,050            VIADUCT COMPOIENT OF SHAN6HAI
-iuNing Rd       LaoGao Rd             1,000     3,050          METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT,
LaoGao Rd        Ouay2Un Rd              750     3,050                    NOW BElNG  HYLDZNTED
*GuangUin Rd     JlaoTong Rd           1,000     3,050
JiaoTong Rd     HISai Rd                 800     3,050
Subtotal    Phase 1               5.470     3.050
End of phase 1  GongfeXfn Rd           1,150     3,050     20,980      1,442     47.3    62.24
GongBeX:ln Rd    XIBaoXing Rd          1,131     3,050      19,537     1,343     44.0    63.48
XlBaoXlng Rd     GuangZhong Rd         1,311     3,050      17,834     1,226     40.2    64.98
GuangZhong Rd    XiJianWan Rd            490     3.050      11,463       788     25.8    70.91
Subtotal    Section 3             4.08Z     3.050
XiJiaaWan Rd     YuasLln Rd              818     3,050     20,410      1,403     46.0    62.73
YuanLln Rd       SiPlng Rd             2,340     3,050      14,631     1,005     33.0    67.90
SiPing Rd        SongHuaJiang Rd       1,352     3,050      14,788     1,016     33.3    67.75
SoagHuaJlang Rd  ChangYang Rd          1,881     3,050     17,385      1,195     39.2    65.38
Subtotal    Section 4             6.391     3.050
Total       Sections 1+2+3+4    23.897      3.050
Total       Inner Rint Road/c   29,367      3.050
fg Similar calculations for each road section of the viaduct, the surfac road (improved, with project) and the
surface road without the project for each year are available in the project file.
/b Length in meters refers to the distance between intersections on the surfce road. It is not relevant for
the viaduct speed calculafion but it is a determint of speeds (along with the load factor) on sections of
the suirfe road.
&   Total Rig Road includes that portionof the IRR financed  der Shanghai MetropolitanTnsport Project,
now being implemented. Neither cost nor benefits of this section are included in this economic evaluation.



- 137 -
Table 2: TRAMC SPEN AD VECLE O'ERAHNG CoSr, SAME CALCLATION
bMPROVED SECnONS OF SUFACE-LEVEL INER PiN  ROAD, 2010 La
-   Vehicle Ovev.'tina Costs. 1k1am
Small      Large    Articulated Fselght  Freight
Road segmeut                      Speed   Passenger  Passenger   Passenger  Vehicle  Vehicle
Origlin          Destination       (bla/h)   Vehicle    Vehicle     Vehicle   Type I   Type 2
NanPu bridge     XinZhaoZhu .Rd    60.00    0.52         1.24        1.50      1.15      1.14
XinZhaoZhu Rd   Z5ZaoJu Rd         52.00    0.56        1.31         1.58      1.22      1.21
ZbiZaoJu Rd      LuBau Rd          60.00    0.52        1.24         1.50      1.15      1.14
LuBan Rd         DaPU Rd           49.68    0.58        1.33         1.61      1.24      1.23
DaPu Rd           Tunnel           24.80    0.84        1.70         2.07      1.61      1.64
Tunnel           RiBuiDong Rd      36.10    0.68         1.49        1.81      1.40      1.40
RIHuiDong Rd     DafuQiao Rd       58.64    0.53        1.25         1.51       1.16     1.15
DaMuQiao Rd      WanPin Rd         60.00    0.52        1.24         1.50      1.15      1.14
WauPin Rd         TianYaoqLao R    60.00    0.52         1.24        1.50       1.15     1.14
TianTaoQiao R    LongWu Rd         49.16    0.58        1.33         1.61      1.24      1.24
LongWu Rd        CaoXl Rd          54.53    0.55         1.29        1.55      1.20      1.19
CaOli Rd         KaiXuan Rd        33.24    0.71        1.54         1.86      1.44      1.45
KalXuan Rd       YiShan Rd          60.00    0.52        1.24        1.50       1.15     1.14
TiShan Rd        WuZhong Rd        60.00    0.52        1.24         1.50      1.15      1.14
WuChong Rd        Hongqiao Rd       60.00    0.52        1.24        1.50       1.15     1.14
HongQiao Rd      YanAn Rd          60.00    0.52        1.24         1.50      1.15      1.14
YsnAn Rd         TianShan Rd       38.52    0.66        1.46         1.76      1.36      1.37
TianShan Rd      WuYl Rd           39.49    0.65        1.44         1.75      1.35      1.35
WuYli Rd          ChaagNing Rd     52.45    0.56         1.30        1.58       1.21     1.21
CbangNing Rd     Begin phase 1    60.00    0.52         1.24         1.50      1.15      1.14
Begin phase 1    JinShaJiang Rd                                THIS SECTION OF THE IRR WAS THE
JinSbaJiang Rdcaolang Rd                               VIADUCT AND RING ROAD SURFACE COMPONENT
caoYang Rd       WuNing Rd                              OF THE S8ASGHAI METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT
VEiNing Rd        LaoGao Rd                                     PROJECT, NOW BEING IKPLEMENTED
LasoGao Rd       GuaagXla Rd
GuangXin Rd      JiaoTong Rd
JiaoTong Rd      HuTal Rd
End of phase 1   GongHeXia Rd      60.00    0.52        1.24         1.50      1.15      1.14
GongReXin Rd     XiBSoXing Rd      60.00    0.52        1.24         1.50      1.15      1.14
XiDaSXlug Rd     GuangZhoag Rd    60.00    0.52         1.24         1.50      1.15      1.14
GuaugZhong Rd    XiJianWan Rd      52.83    0.56        1.30         1.57      1.21      1.20
XlJiLsWan Rd     YuanLln Rd        60.00    0.52        1.24         1.50      1.15      1.14
YuanLin Rd        SiPing Rd        60.00    0.52        1.24         1.50      1.15      1.14
SLPing Rd        SougHuaJiang Rd  60.00    0.52         1.24         1.50      1.15      1.14
SongfuaJiang Rd  ChangYang Rd      60.00    0.52        1.24         1.50      1.15      1.14
Li Stmilar calculations for other years for the improved sur1ice road, and for viaduct and uninproved swuface
road (without project) are available in project files.



- 138 -                                            ANE  12
Table 3: UNrT VEICLE QEAWNG Cosr (YuAN PE w4 A
ANNUAL TOTAL VEHICLE OPATG C0ST, SAMLE CALWLA'UON
1"s. Vlttmt t be5t Go" to            
1*.   or Paa.            a r          Vabial alo fab slu
X~~~eattato                         L.p       trail     ---   (PcatCag ai Bc VTetla TS~  ...-                     2 O.
(=to)  (V*ld4y)  23.72          6.272      5.x             . ete 1   11.76,    (Tina)
Utuz4           Itutba        R 3d         936     6.4U        0.5 7      1.S2        1.59        1.21     1.22        3.18
ZuZb         3d   &ZtZwJu 1u               420     6 056      0.63        1.42        1.n 72     141       11          1.10
lbSlaD   t ad       7d8 S                             2         .57       t1          1.  59     I .1s     I.2         2 .0
Laba 1ad        Daft 1.4                   410     St12        0.46       1.45        1.75        1.34     1.26        1.4
Daft itd      U4"                      10to7o                          17         2.15       1.68      1.71        0.4l
D    a          hs r       "               27      14 760      0.86       1.74        2.12        1.63     1.3         2.24
Caauaou6M g             lhlaoI-d           51     14 753       0.72       I.51        1.12        1.46     1.47        4.10
1,580    19,095      1.S        2.54         2.11       2.48     2.59       15.60
t^Ubtn 11O 1      Y          1             772I     17 8440   0 .8        1.76        2.14        1.47     1.70        7.45
TIgalacOla. 1. LouaWKd                     490    19,100       1.53       2.56        1.13       2.48      2.59        7.92
a gI3d CRI 1.                              550    17,612       1.32       2.56        2.13       1.48      2.59        8.16
Subtotal   SectIon 1       6.92                 iA-f       3WGI         2.I7       Af       UV.!         liI
08all 94   K9lIna  Rd                  26     1.4         066         1.74        2.12       1.45      1.66        1.61
= ="8u 14       Tisban ad                  78      17,11       0.83       1.72        2.10        1.44     I.44        6.56
ISban ad        Subong ad                   8      t 2o 07     1.52       2.56         .1        2.4"      2.59       14.76
Vulboag 14  IonaQtao 3d         9~54    19,853      1.52       2.54        31.1        2.48     2.59       15.95
BmigQlao 14  TanSult          ~1,176    21,224      1.55       2.54         2.12       2.44     2.59        21.00
Ta,AiId         ftnga                      3 48    20.257      1.5        2.56        2.1        2.44      2.59        S.94
IluSa  Rd4    hati Rd                      156    19,55        1.52       2.261"      1.1'2      2."8      2.59        5.84
ValT 14         changlig 1.d               550    20,401       1.51       2.56        3.13       2.48      259         9.45
Obangling Rd    5agin pbaa. 1            1,280    21,707       1.52       2.56        3.12       2."4      2.19       27.70
subtotl   SectI   2                 6-490   180.035   1    5         2.46        202                  2.429     111.02
1.1Jba  I    ISaIan                  420
3d  Caolu       Rd           1,000                   'US Sam          o  Ti  U 0g1o31  1.*6  128300?  113 am A  804W 1
caclaug U       hlin                       S 3d  5cWPOU    cO w                   Se eIa  SwUZUOLT1
hAling d        lcoacewm o               1000136 uh                                                                       i te
LaoGao Rd       Sua~g1in Id                750
JIsod  oe   Rd          1.000
iXot^ an*d 8Bal              
Subtotal   Pba  1                   5.470
SW of        I  Oongi  ad                1.150    24,191       1.52       2.54        3.12        2.4      2.S9       22.41
t~~;R;d     21lada  Rd               1,131    22,529       1.52       2.56        S.1Is      2.48      2.59       21.45
IiSaoing  d    Ouagbon U-a           1,311    20,546      0.98        1.89        2.21       1.60      1.84       16.17
Guanglhong 3d    ijlasuan d            490    13.219      0.67        1.48        1.77       1.17      1.18        2.91
Sutot    SfOttl   2                 4.082                 1.29       2.28        2.78       L!9      LZ          6i2L6
IiZLT*n      Rd    TauLts a              4,000    20,204       1.52       2.56        2.11       2.48      2.s9       68.04
lanI.I. 1.      SIPSag 14 
SiRin Rd        ScagluaJa  Id            5.000   11"550        1.07       2.ol        i.44       1.91      1.98       i9.67
SboglstRag Rd Cbanglag Rd                    -         -                  -           -         -           -
Subtotal   Setim 4                  9000 eooA
To"el       Sct Iflu   2 -U26.506                                                                               M6.6
, Similar caGukc  f  othr yeaom for the unimproed surfce roed (wito  pjec) ad for th viaduct an iaprv  stbe ud
(Wih proje) ae avilb  in proje  files.



- 139 -                                        ANNEX12
Table 4: SUioRY RAT OF RETURN CAULATIONS,
Ie= RIG ROAD
(Y miimon)
vablols     Taus Of                   not         Eat o.b tflo
*r          eucatualauattenase            Total       Qarats tSo                           floe at unr-   at ee.eal
cootsattot                            eat aunacout        j        aandt.    hot  tA..         ric
(I)          (21       US).(l)*2         (4)         (5)    (*'4).(4a(S    (7)-(4)..(3)       (6
1993            987.00                      987.00                                             -987.00     -1,321.36
1994          1974.00                     1,974.0o                                           .1.974 .00     2,643.96
199s                          14.81          14.01      212.34        70.17      382.5,         267.7         329.71
1998                          14. 1          14.61      242.22        82.39      324.62         309.:1        381.07
1109                          14.61          14.61      272.00        94.4       366.70         351.90        432.41
to9o                          14.a1          14.61      sol."s       106.64      408.79         393.98        483.75
1999                          14.81          14.        331.62        19.06      450.67         436.07        5)3.10
2000                          14.61          14.81       361.66      131.26      92.96         476.16        584.44
2001                          14.81          14.81       396.23      1S0.8.      149.11         534.31        653.92
2002                          14.81          14.81      434.8        170.46       05.26         590.46        721.41
2003                          14.81          14.61      4714.4       190.06      461.41         464.1         76.809
2004                          14.61          14.81      307.69       209."8       717.56        702.74        834.37
2005                          14.81          14.01      544.44        .2.6       7S.73          758.91        923.85
06                            14.61          14.81       360.99      248.67       29.67         61.04         "99.33
2007                          14.61          14.81      417.4        266.47       86.02         671.21      1.056.82
2008                          14.61          14.41      654.10       36.07       942.17         927.36      1 126.30
2009                          14.81          14.61      690.45       307.67      998.32         063.51      1193.7
2010                          14.81          14.81       727.20      327.27    1,054.47       1   s0.67     1,261.26
2011                          14.61          14.61       773.00      363.31    1,136.31       1,121 51       1 357.30
2012                          14.81          14.61       816.79      39934    1,218.13        1,203.35       1453.34
2013                          14.61          14.61      8"4.S9       435.40    1 299.99       1,263 .9      1 549.37
2014                          14.61          14.81      910.38       471.45     1,381.83      1,36703        1,645.41
20135        .1.961.00        14.81      -1,473.10      956.1        507.49    1,463.67       2,936.77      3,73S.24
3sou.i 11"t of Retur                                                                              O.1          0.15
Thin  ocao dffw fim thos doa for th IR in proe  cow tables. ltbe conrt financd fom dHiffere  swcms a  elde
fivm proect CcodL. As pai of th requed Inetmnt to rea  benfts they are Inoudd he. In aion, th valu of hosn
tad gop ce ttbu m ua that woe destoyed fo th proec am included. Rettleme  cos ak ca ofth proje  atribu                to
hwming  te tn thn trnspoi% ar not Inbuded.
At 03 peren of project coa
i  Oly wok t     assumdato Otir of tu             aol tdps,  . Va ofanhounbasdonaveghoury ernhtsoployer
ISbad. lswesY 1.41 in 199, adwasinread5 pere  p  yeartoobtai  1995vau. There,er.3 percenperyear
Icae in ra  we e  asmmed.
d  Avera ogenvos*actoof 1.34fat dovtuctionoatsand 1.31 fotrvehicle peratngosweredevedfifom             hina: Conveo
Ftersa,' any 1990. FSorth vlue of me sv  ca           on, it wasaumd tat 2 of3 h        ved weunilled   lborhout,
raufting in a conveio faor  of 1.2 perce  for tm  savp (unsled abor 0.8 and skilled abor 2.0).



- 140 -                       AM         12
Table 5: ALTERNaiTV RlmTE OF RmuNl   CAmA TxIONS
(Y million)
Excess        Real                        Year
Traffic       traffic        vases                     delay to
declines      diverts       stagnate,                  complete,
from        from IRR       costs         Costs        costs
year 2000      at zero        overrun      overrun       overrun
Year     to 2010 1      added coat      by 201       by 202        by 102
(1)           (2)           (3)           (4)          (5)
1993     -1,322.58      -1,321.38     -1,589.07    -1,589.07    -1,453.52
1994     -2,645.16      -2,643.96     -3,178.14    -3,178.14    -1,454.18
1995        342.56         323.24        323.38        338.56    -1,454.18
1996        396.35         366.63        371.69        392.35       392.35
1997        450.13         410.02        420.01        446.14       446.14
1998        503.92         453.41        468.32        499.92       499.92
1999        557.71         496.80        516.63        553.71       553.71
2000        611.50         540.19        564.95        607.50       601.50
2001        584.60         593.82        622.68        678.90       678.90
2002        557.71         647.46        680.40        750.30       750.30
2003        530.82         701.09        738.13        821.71       821.71
2004        503.92         754.73        795.86        893.11       893.11
2005        477.03         808.36        853.59        964.51       964.51
2006        450.13         862.00        911.32      1,035.91     1,035.91
2007        423.24         915.63        969.04      1,107.31     1,107.31
2008        396.35         969.27      1*,26.77      1,178.72     1,178.72
2009        369.45       1,022.90      1,084.50      1,250.12     1,250-.12
2010        342.56       1,076.54      1,142.23      1,321.52     1,321.52
2011        342.56       1,150.45      1,216.77      1,424.77     1,424.77
2012        342.56       1,224.36      1,291.32      1,528.01     1,528.01
2013        342.56       1,298.26      1,365.86      1,631.26     1,631.26
2014        342.56       1,372.17      1,440.40      1,734.50     1,734.50
2015      2,336.35       3,439.87      3,910.47      4,233.27     4,233.27
Rate of
return      0.10           0.14          0.12          0.14         0.14
La For relavence of each calculation, see the text of this annex. All calculations in this
table are at economic prices



- 141-                        ANNEX 13
DOCUIMS AVALABLE IN  E PROJECT FLE
1.    The Comnprehemive Planning for the Tr4fic of Shanghai Munidpality, Shanghai
City Comprehensive Tranportation Planning Institute (SCCTPI), 1992.
2.    SaghI Inner Ring Road Project4 Fearlbilty Sudy Report, Shangi Municipal
Engineering Design isdtute and Shanghai Urban Construction Design Institute,
June 1991.
3.   EWonmmal Acdon Plan, Shanghai Research Institute for Environmental
Protecdon Sciences, January 1993.
4.   Suplement to the Enviromnenal Action Plan, letter from SM to the Bank, July 30,
1993.
5.   EnvIronm a Monitoring Plan, Shanghai Research Institute for Environmental
Protection Scece, January 1993.
6.   Environmen   Monitorng Plan (Supplemental Docunent), Shanghai Research
Institute for Environmental Protecton Sciences, May 1993.
7.   Inner Ring Road Project Stage 2, Rsetlement Acion Plan and Implementaon
Procedu1 , Sbanghai Municipal Engineering Adminisaon Department, June
1993.
8.    The Pltn and Steps of mplemenaon for Land Requisition and Demoliton of
STC's Projects under SMTP II, Shanghai Transit, June 1993.
9.    Project File Tables for Annex 12: IRR Economic Evaluation.



CHINA
SECOND SHANGHAI METROPOUTAN
TRANSPORT PROJECT
INNER RING ROAD TYPICAL CROSS SECTIONS
9.0     0.25 f.a    0.. 5   0.
7.0
506.0   5
ui
<_ _   20.0            b <                          25.0 0
Al5      4.0 -ti.01-     7.5         3. 17754
STANDARD HALF CROSS SECTION                                     STANDARD HALF CROSS SECTION
OF ROAD SECTION                  SKETCH A                         WITH RAMPS
0.25 0.5           .0.5 0.5
/ \
I 90  0.25 1t- 3 5-- +- 375-:1l      Motor Vehicle Front View
A A                II       r       E rMotor Vehicle Back View
R   u    R         ;LJ    @LJ   ^                 T   Bike
0.5                            0.25           0. 0.5
2.    4.0   9    7.5    ajg 3.0           d 4   35-.             &, 0 i2.Z
2.5~~~~~~~~~3.
CROSS SECTION OF
DIFFICULT ROAD SECTION
SKETCH B
eftsadsW54138&



SECOND SHAN'GHAi METROPOIUTAN TRMNPORT PROJECT \,                                                                                             / .                                             NS&EHPAT j         
PROJECT LOCATION                               f;BAS N   I                                                                   COUNTY    /                   ,      YINH"RD1 j 
0    fjUSDEROfS             01                      _ * * _  . _ . . _,, _ s   ~~~~~~CHAPCDiONG RD9   ;/g                                  
BUSrOTlEG   -_>t-kh      -S
'~s~'INNER RNG ROAD'      ,                                              ...                                                  ..,                                          .            .  
MAIOR INTERCHANG-0".)NRD.,  
r,ft,1l NER RING ROAD UNDER PRIPAOUS BANK PROJECT                                                                                                     to      
I  '-NNER RING ROAD UNDER CONSIRUC IIN (NOTtINIHtIS tzROIK);: NORT H                   C ITrY  _L .,   X\*_i\. .o\ 
METWUNDER CONTRUCnON (NOT DAM P90JECTl, >8,r,=  -I <
i ~~~~~A           SUSINTERC11ANGE *    GUDITICTDISTICT. v, , )
.~~~~~~~~~NE _dN ROAD                                                                                                         H  NGQ4  : --8--.SDISTRICT i -- tC < _1t-S9
\ ; &; f _ <SECONDARY ROADS
+_ _ t~~~~~MU-_CNP\L_OUNDA - ES                           2               
C H 'N t   z   !   t}   '---''''     \       APT U O                                                                                 ---------     -- ---   H  f                                               t 
. . wS  t. ^ .                   \ 4 / .'DISTRICT_             )NQ4AN
<  .f  3F                 X          v /                                               Ihijes=hzZ~~~~~~nrdXrStt 's~~~Fedu<@        Co-s   ~~~~  \ @
zff~~~~~.                                                        DIT t                                                                           0 i+f1p> oo rr >ZHIN                        /       -      nOla*L2
l i ^ l     /fz    \  >                         !            \                  '-,          ,~ ~~~~~~~~ ~                                                                              ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PSeb  o^z  JtCT: 



CHINA
SECOND SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
DRAFT TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT STRATEGY                                                                 j
TRAFFIC MANAGRIENT STIATEGY:                                                        .                             2
--OTOR VEHOE ROADS
-     NON MOTOR iVECIE ROADS
- us ONLY ROADS
-raS AND NMV ROADS
000 0   ALL TRAFFIC ROADS IMV AND NMV)
PROPOSED SRSIES
ESTnNG:
PRIMARY ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS
-    * RAOADS
-  RVERS
ISLOMETERS-
- ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~      
~~~~e~W
Gap IS.          Hciq 
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.A&.&. l
R.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~aSWMaG



