Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3652 CHA
(Second Shanghai Metropolitan Transport Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY
Dated December 15, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3652 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY (SM).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that SM 
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
WHEREAS SM, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with 
the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the General Conditions (as so defined) and the preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein and herein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SM declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and 
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and SM shall otherwise agree, SM shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. SM shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) SM shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
SM shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by SM of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) SM shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of SM responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof. 
(b)
SM shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Page  3
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of SM 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify SM thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For SM:
Shanghai Municipal Finance Bureau
60 Jiu Jiang Road
Shanghai
People's Republic of China
Telex:
33685 SMFB
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SM, or by SM 
on behalf of the Borrower under
the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Mayor of Shanghai or such other 
person or persons as the Mayor shall designate in writing, and SM shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Page  4
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods, under Parts A and B of the Project, 
and works, under Part A of the Project, shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall 
not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.  Where no 
relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall 
use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed 
with the Bank.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in the People's Republic of China may be granted a margin 
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Page  5
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Maintenance equipment under Part A of the Project, estimated to cost in the 
aggregate an amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,800,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
(a)
Equipment under Part B.1 of the Project, estimated to cost in the 
aggregate an amount not exceeding the equivalent of $2,200,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of 
evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at least three qualified suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 
2.56 thereof).
(b)
Equipment under Parts B.2 and C of the Project, estimated to cost less 
than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding 
the equivalent of $3,200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Civil works under Part A of the Project, estimated to cost in the aggregate an 
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $31,200,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Bank.
4.
(a)
Except as provided in subparagraph (b) hereof, civil works under Parts 
B.3 and C of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Bank.
(b)
Civil works under Parts B.3 and C of the Project, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $2,000,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding 
the equivalent of $11,200,000, may be carried out by force account.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods, estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more, and civil works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Page  6
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist SM in carrying out the Project, SM shall employ consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.  For complex, time-based assignments, 
the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of 
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as 
shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents 
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with 
the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
SM shall, under the general supervision and guidance of the Borrower, carry out 
the Project, with the assistance of such departments and agencies and project 
management team, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with an implementation plan 
agreed to by the Bank.
2.
SM shall select, design and implement Subprojects (including applicable 
environmental action plans and resettlement action plans in respect thereof) in 
accordance with criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
SM shall, taking into account the findings of the technical assistance provided 
in respect of the reform of Shanghai Transit Company (STC) under the Shanghai 
Metropolitan Transport Project (Credit Number 2296 CHA), prepare a time-based and 
costed program for the reform of STC and thereafter take appropriate steps to 
implement it in consultation with the Bank.
4.
SM shall: (a) prepare time-based and costed plans for: (i) implementing a 
vehicle inspection and maintenance program, and (ii) reducing damaging vehicle 
emissions, (b) by December 31, 1994 furnish the said plans to the Bank, and (c) 
thereafter take appropriate steps to implement both plans in consultation with the 
Bank.
5.
SM declares its commitment to the preservation of the environment and, to this 
end, shall, in respect of Part A of the Project, carry out: (a) the environmental 
protection measures stipulated in the Environmental Action Plan dated January 1993 and 
Supplement thereto dated July 1993, both prepared by the Shanghai Environmental 
Sciences Research Institute (SESRI), and (b) the environmental monitoring program set 
out in the Environmental Monitoring Plan, dated January 1993 and Supplement thereto 
dated May 1993, both prepared by SESRI, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
6.
SM declares its commitment to the Bank's policy on resettlement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the land acquisition and resettlement activities in respect of 
Parts A and C of the Project pursuant to two Resettlement Action Plans (entitled: 
"Inner Ring Road Project Stage 2, Resettlement Action Plan and Implementation 
Procedures" and "The Plan and Steps of Implementation for Land Requisition and 
Demolition of STC's Projects under STMP II" respectively), both dated June 1993 and 
prepared by Shanghai
Municipal Engineering Construction Company and Shanghai Transit Company respectively, 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
7.
SM shall carry out the technical assistance and training under Part D of the 
Project in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
8.
SM shall furnish to the Bank: (a) by June 30, 1994, its current medium-term 
transportation investment plan, and thereafter (b) by June 30 of every year until 
completion of the Project, its
annual transportation investment plan.
Page  7
