Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12203-VN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VWET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
OCTOBER 5, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12203 VN
Type: SAR
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted ditibution and may be used by redpiens only in the perfonnance of
their official duties Its contents may not othenvise be disdosed without Wodd Bank authorzaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September 1993)
Currency Unit - Vietnamese Dong
US$1.00  -  Dong 10,700
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 m    -1.39 yd
1 m2 e  10.76 sq. ft.
1 km   -0.62 mi.
1 km2 - 0.38 sq. mi.
ABBREVIATIONS
DCA         -    Development Credit Agreement
EMIS        -     Education Management Information System
EPH         -     Education Publishing House
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
IDA         -     International Development Association
LCB         -    Local Competitive Bidding
MOET        -    Ministry of Education and Training
MOF         -    Ministry of Finance
NACEME      -    National Advisory Council for Ethnic Minority
Education
PCU               Project Coordination Unit
RCEME       -    Research Center for Ethnic Minority Education
RDICS       -    Research and Design Institute for School
Construction
SDR         -     Special Drawing Rights
SOE         -     Statement of Expenditures
SPC         -    State Planning Commission
SRVN        -    Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
page No.-
CREI      E     CIT............................                      ill,
C. M LQM     .....................................................  .   . . {it
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR IN VIETNAM ................................       1
A. Overview of the Education Sector ............................      1
B.  Primary Education ...........................................     3
C. Government's Development Strategy .............................   11
D. Bank Group Strategy .........................................     12
E.  Experience with Past Lending ................................    13
III. THE PROJECT ......................................................14
A. Project Objectives ..........................................      14
B. Project Components and Activities by Objective ..............     14
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN                ..                     24
A. Costs .......................................................     24
B.  Financing Plan ..............................................    27
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMEN-TATION ..........................................    28
A.  Project Management .........................................     28
B.  Flow of Funds, Accounting, and Auditing .....................    30
C.  Procurement .................................................    32
D. Disbursements and lmplementation ......................           .......  36
E. Monitoring, Reporting, and Supervision Requirements .........     37
F.  Status of Project Preparation ...............................    39
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Viet Nam in November 1991 and consisted of the following: Mr. David Klaus
(EAiPH, mission leader), Mrs. Himelda Martinez (ASTPH, general educator), Mr.
Vasilios Demetriou (EAIPH, implementation specialist), Mr. Vinh Le-Si (CODKO,
systems analyst), Mr. Philip Cohen (specialist in textbook production,
consultant), Mr. Pentti Viluksela (specialist in textbook printing,
consultant), Mrs. Suzanne Allman (Program Officer for Education, UNICEF/Viet
Nam), and Mr. Bryan Truman (Regional Director for Southeast Asia, World
Vision). Ms. Kathryn Johnston (ASTPH, education specialist/task manager), Kr.
David Lewis (architect, consultant), Mrs. Caridad Miranda (specialist in
textbook production, consultant), and Mr. Shaikh Hossain (human resources
economist, consultant) also assisted in project preparation. Peer reviewers
at various points were Mr. Albert Aime (EA3PH), Mr. Birger Fredriksen (PHREE),
Mr. Tawhid Nawaz (SA2PH), Mrs. Eileen Nkwanga (AF4PH), Mr. Ralph Romain (ESP),
Mr. Andre Salmon (EAIPH), and Mr. Christopher Shaw (EM2PH). The division
chief is Mr. J. Shivakumar (EAIPH) and the Department Director is Mr. Callisto
Madavo (EAlDR).
This document has a restricted distdbution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)                                           Page No.
V_. SUSTAINABILITY. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPVACT. AND GENDER ISSUES ....... .....   40
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AN'D RISKS .  .....       ..................................   41
A.  Benefits ......................................................   41
B. Risks .........................................................   42
VIII. AGREEM4T AND RECOMNE N  TIO           ..       .      ............. 44
TABLES:
4.1 Ptoject Cost Summary by Component                 ..                   24
4.2   Project Cost Summary by Type of Expenditure          .      .        25
4.3 Financing Plan                      ............  28
5.1 Procurement Arrangements                     ..                        35
5.2  Disbursements ...................                                     37
ANNMEXES:
Annex  1. Basic Statistics on Primary Education           .    .    .      47
Annex 2. Education Finance                      ..                         50
Amnex 3. Textbook Component                      ..                        56
Annex 4. List of Basic Teaching Aids for Primary Schools ...............   75
Annex  5. Primary Teacher Training Institutions .........................   77
Annex  6. The Ethnic Minorities/Mountainous Areas Education Component ...   81
Annex  7. Dimensional Coordination of Classrooms    .       .............  102
Annex  8. School Mapping Information ....................................  103
Annex  9. Civil Works in the Five Major Cities ............ .............  104
Annex 10. Civil Works in the Mekong ''elta      ................  106
Annex 11. Civil Works in the Mountainous Areas ............ .............  109
Annex 12. Study Tours and Fellowships for Education Nanagers ............   112
Annex 13. Equipment for Education Management      ................  115
Annex 14. Sample-Based National Assessment of Primary Education   ........  117
Annex 15. Technical Assistance Terms of Reference          ..             124
Annex 16. Detailed Costs           ..........................  170
Annex 17. Project Costs Summary                   . . .    181
Annex 18. Project Management    ..................... ......................  190
Annex 19. School Financial Accounting Summary     ................  205
Annex 20. Procurement                ...................  215
Annex 21. Disbursement Forecast ................* ............ .   218
Annex 22. Implementation Schedule .......................................  219
Annex 23. Matrix for Monitoring and Evaluating Project Implementation ...  220
Annex 24. Supervision Plan             ....................  232
Annex 25. Annual, Mid-Term, and Final Reviews .......................     234
CHARTS:
Chart 1. Organizational Chart of the Ministry of Education and
Training ....................................................  238
Chart 2. Project Coordination Unit              ........ .  239
Chart 3. Management Structure for the Ethnic Minority Component ........  240
NAP:       IBRD 23193



- iII -
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAN
PRIMARY W=JAtON PRQiEGT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BgrF-oww-ert:     Socialist Republic of Viet Nam.
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Education and Training.
Credit Amount     SDR 49.6 million (US$70.0 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard, with 40 years' maturity.
Cofinancie=:      None
Obiect"v 1:       Major project objectives are:  (a) improve the quality and
relevance of primary education; (b) rehabilitate existing
infrastructure and extend access; and (c) strengthen the
management of primary education at the school, district,
provincial, and national levels.
DSscW2p12o:       To improve the guality and relevance of 9rima2y eduaction,
the project would: (a) strengthen the capacity of the
Education Publishing House to manage the development,
printing and distribution of textbooks and provide access to
textbooks for all primary children; (b) provide simple
teaching aids to all primary schools; (c) provide teaching
aids and other needed inputs to all primary teacher training
schools; and (d) support adoption of a uniform curriculum
length for the primary level and the phased introduction of
multi-grade teaching practices and bilingual education in
schools catering to ethnic minority children. Zg
rehabilitate existing grimary-education infrastructure and
extend accaes, the project would: (e) repair dilapidated
and dangerous classrooms; (f) construct a limited number of
new classrooms (to overcome problems associated with triple-
shifting, incomplete schools, and lack of access); and (g)
provide water supply, latrines, and furniture. These
interventions would be targeted in three phases: (i) five
largest cities, (ii) eleven provinces of the Mekong Delta,
and (iii) eight mountainous provinces. To strngthen
management ot the primarv education system, the project
would support: (h) software and hardware for developing an
education management information system and training local
education officials in its use; (i) study tours and
fellowships for selected education managers to learn from
counterparts overseas; (j) in-country seminars to
disseminate these experiences; (k) studies related to the
rationalization and development of the education system; (1)
an education monitoring and evaluation system; (m)
establishment of a Project Coordination Unit within the
Ministry of Education and Training to improve the
implementation of education projects; and (o) preparation of
future education investment proposals.



- iv -
n&fitLj:          The project should provide gains in efficiency and equity
for both the education system and the society at large. All
education inputs are aimed at reducing wastage (repetition,
dropout) and improving throughput. Better facilities and
access to a full set of textbooks and classroom learning
aids is a crucial step toward a better--and therefore more
efficient--educational environment. The project would
provide resources and strategies for reaching and keeping in
school hard-to-reach and hard-to-teach groups while
addressing systemic distortions in the provision of primary
education, thus reaching the poorer segments of the
population. Other specific project benefits would include:
(a) a streamlined curriculum (as reflected in the new
textbooks); (b) a more cost-effective and financially
sustainable system for producing and printing textbooks,
deriving in part from the introduction of competitive
bidding procedures; (c) an improved system for judging
classroom needs, prioritizing resource allocation, and
empowering district education authorities (through
introduction of the school mapping approach); (d) stronger,
more durable, and ultimately less costly classrooms in the
Mekong delta (through introduction of improved construction
techniques for building typhoon- and flood-resistant
schools); (e) improvements to health conditions at primary
schools (through provision of latrines and drinking water);
and (f) stronger education management (through improved
measures for monitoring education programs, gathering and
analyzing educational statistics, and conducting national
education assessments).
Niaka:            Primary risks stem from:  (a) the transitional economy and
Government agencies' unfamiliarity with multilateral
financing practices and procedures; (b) assumptions about
the direction and pace of change to ZPH operations; (c) the
impact of declining teacher remuneration levels on the
quality of education delivered; (d) the timeliness and
sufficiency of the counterpart funding, in particular the
local (school or district level) contribution; (e) the
capacity of the MOET to implement the project, optimize
education management inputs, and institute new evaluation
and assessment procedures; and (f) the ability of local
(school and district) education authorities to adopt
different processes (i.e. formalize local financial
contributions, institutionalize school mapping procedures,
and develop school plans as a basis for construction
investments). The project has been designed to minimize
these risks.



Estimated Costs
Project Objectives                                     Lg4cai   FZregi      Tal1
----- US$ million ------
1. Improve the Quality
and Relevance                                       17.79      13.29     31.08
2. Rehabilitate Existing Infrastructure
and Extend Access                                   21.77       7.99     29.76
3. Improve Management                                  _1.57       5.27      6.84
Total Base Costs                                       41.13      26.55     67.68
Physical Contingencies                                  4.11       2.66      6.77
Price Contingencies                                     *3A2.l                I7
Total Project Costs I/ 4W.§Q                                      31.39     80.19
FinSancinj Plan
1Local      Foreie       Total
---- US$ million --------
Government k/                           6.9           1.1        8.0
IDA                                    39.7                    70
TOTAL                                  O6LA X4.2
j/   Includes US$ 2.19 million of taxes levied in Viet Ram on local purchases.
hi   Includes expected contribution of US$2.7 million equivalent from
Parents' Associations and Local Governments.
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
1994 122k 122k 1222 1998 122k 200Q 2001
------ US$ million ----------
Annual                           5.0   3.0   7.0  13.0  15.0  13.5  10.5   3.0
Cumulative                       5.0   8.0  15.0  28.0  43.0  56.5  67.0  70.0
Sale of Retrn:   Not applicable
Poverty Category: Program of Targeted Interventions.
Specific project activities with a poverty-reduction focus
include: (a) a more equitable textbook system (based on a
standard curriculum, provision of ethnic minority language
materials as appropriate, and a more equitable approach to



-VI-
textbook distribution); (b) support for more culturally-
sensitive pedagogies and mother-tongue literacy, which
should help to level the educational playing field for
ethnic minority children; and (c) targeting of schools in
the most dilapidated condition (and therefore, likely to be
in the poorest areas) for rehabilitation. The direct result
of these inputs woule be higher attendance in primary
school, better educationial performance, and a higher
attainment rate among the most vulnerable groups.
Itxdlg=u
Peoples:          Program of Target Interventions.
Eight ethnic minorities have been selected to participate in
the project: (Thai, Muong, Nung, Hmong, Jarai, Bahnar, Cham
and Sedang, whic.h represent about 45% of the total ethnic
minority population and--with the exception of the Cham--
live primarily in the mountainous regions). The component
was designed in consultation/collaboration with
represeatatives of target populations, local experts, and
two international agencies long active in Viet Nam, UNICEF
and World Vision. Inputs include: primary education
facilities and introduction of mother-tongue literacy and
multigrade teaching.
mmg:              IBRD 23193



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NA.
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
I. THE CONTEXt
1.1         Viet Nam stretches over 1,600 km. from its northern border with
China to the Gulf of Thailand in the south. Hills and mountains cover up to
three-quarters of the land area. The two densely populated river deltas, that
of the Red Rivrer in the north and the Mekong River in the south, are 1,000 km.
apart and linked by a narrow (40-60 km. wide) land strip defined by the
mountainous border region to the west and the South China Sea to the east. In
1993 there were 53 provinces (of which three were city-provinces), nearly 500
districts, and almost 10,000 communes.
1.2         By the early 1990s, Viet Nam had 70 million people, making it the
thirteenth most populous country in the world. The population grew around
2.2% per year, about the same as neighboring countries. Although 80* of the
population was rural, three cities--Ho Chi Minh City (formerly Saigon), Hanoi,
and Haiphong--had over one million residents each.
1.3         With a GNP per capita of tess than US$200, Viet Nam is one of the
poorest countries in the world. Economic isolation, war, and inappropriate
economic policies had led the economy to the verge of collapse. In 1989, the
Government embarked on a course of radical economic reform (referred to as vkL
m2i, "renaissance" or "new life") which reduced the role of centralized
economic management and allowed modified market mechanisms to function. The
progressive removal of subsidies to public enterprises was a key aspect of the
reform program. While the reforms produced immediate positive results (e.g.,
increased agricultural and industrial output; lower inflation) and set the
stage for improved economic performance, the transition to a market-oriented
economy has not been easy. Even with the most optimistic growth scenario, the
country will continue to face severe financial constraints over the next few
years.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR IN VIET NAN
A. Overview of the Education Sector
Organization and Structure
2.1       Formed in 1989 with the merger of two ministries, the Ministry of
Education and Training (MOET) is now the major agency responsible for policy
making, guidance, and supervision of education and training programs. It
develops national curricula, prepares model designs for classrooms, produces
standard textbooks and teaching aids, and administers teacher salary scales.
It is under the leadership of a Minister, a First Vice-Minister, and three
Vice-Ministers, each responsible for several Departments and related agencies
(See Chart 1: Organizational Chart of the Ministry of Education and Training).



- 2 -
2.2       The general education system consists of three cycles:  a five-year
gilmarv cycl (Grades One through Five), a four-year lower-secondary cycle
(Grades Six through Nine), and a three-year upper-secondary cycle (Grades Ten
through Twelve).   The first nine years of formal educacion are considered by
the Vietnamese to be "basic" education. Although the Government has been
trying to separate primary from lower-secondary education, both pedagogically
and physically, they continue to occupy the same premises in a declining but
substantial proportion of schools.y
2.3       Technical and vocational education is offered in three-year courses
following lower-secondary education.' "Professional" education (e.g.,
primary teacher training) Is offered in three-year courses following lower-
secondary education or in two-year courses following upper-secondary
education. Com2lementary education (a four-year upper-secondary equivalency
course for working adults) is offered for those who have completed lower-
secondary education. University courses of three to six years are offered to
those who successfully pass the required examinations after the upper-
secondary course. Continuing education (three- to five-year courses for
adults) is offered for those who have completed upper-secondary education.
Post-graduate courses of two or three years are available to qualified
candidates following university and continuing-education courses.
2.4       The university system in Viet Nam is still largely the
responsibility of the national government, which covers expenditures on
professors' salaries, maintenance and operating costs, and capital investments
(construction and new equipment). Secondary education and primary teacher
training institutions are the responsibility of Viet Nam's 53 provincial
governments, which finance both recurrent and capital costs. Primary schools
are the shared responsibility of Viet Nam's 500 district governments (which
pay primary teachers' salaries), 9,600 commune governments (which contribute
to operating and capital costs), and local Parents' Associations (which
finance most construction and maintenance costs).Y
V         In the 1991-92 school year, for example, some 16,400 schools
offered basic education. Of these, 27% (about 4,400 schools) offered primary
education only, 18% (about 2,900 schools) offered lower-secondary education
only, and the remaining 55% (about 9,100 schools) offered both primary and
lower secondary education.
I         Other ministries, particularly the Ministry of Labor, Invalids, and
Social Affairs, as well as provincial and city governments offer technical and
skills training courses of varying duration.
1         The trend, however, seems to be to re-consolidate both revenues and
expenditures from the district to the provincial level. Within the last three
years, some provinces, particule - in the South, have taken over the
responsibility of paying primary teachers' salaries from the districts--and
have also taken over the responsibility of collecting taxes which earlier were
collected by the districts.



-3-
2.5       The language of instruction is Vietnamese, although ethnic minority
languages are used de facto in a few areas until the children learn Vietnamese
as a second language. Beginning in 1954 (in the North) aud in 1976 (in the
South), all private schools were brought into the public system and required
to teach the national curricula, with teachers being paid by the Government.
With dol-moi, the Government also reviewed its policies toward private
education (particularly at the secondary, vocational, and higher levels) and,
from 1989 onwards greater flexibility has been allowed, particularly at the
higher levels.
B. Primary E_ucation
2.6       In the school year 1991-92, nearly 13,500 schools offered primary
education. In these institutions there were 268,686 classes (an average of
nearly 20 classes per school) and 263,215 teachers, over three-fourths of whom
were women. The total enrollment in primary education was about 9.1 million
children, giving an average of neirly 34 pupils per class and 34.6 pupils ner
teacher. These aggregate statistics are misleading, however, as class size
and teacher- -upil ratios varied considerably--from a handful of pupils per
class in sparsely-populated mountainous districts to 60 or more per class in
densely populated urban areas. Additional statistics on primary education are
given in Annex 1.
Strengths of the Primaty Education System
2.7        The existing education system has a number of strengths, all of
which are particularly evident at the primary level.  These include:  (a) a
cultural context which values and respects literacy and education at all
levels, (b) a society that supports equal access to education opportunities
for both males and females, (c) a highly decentralized administrative
structure, (d) a high degree of control and responsibility at the local level,
and (e) strong involvement of the parents and the larger community in
education, particularly its financing. Some of these strengths are facets of
the same phenomenon, but for clarity's sake, they will be discussed separately
in the following paragraphs.
2.8       ResRect for Education.  As in many East Asian societies, respect
for education and reverence for the teaching profession are deeply ingrained
in the social fabric of Vietnamese culture. The country's first institution
of higher education--which prepared officials for service in the royal court--
was established over a thousand years ago. Vietnamese parents, social
organizations and government officials annually make an enormous effort to
enroll children in school, with the result that, by 1991 the net primary
enrollment ratio (or percentage of the age cohort enrolled) was 87%. Other
education indicators are equally positive. By the late 1980s, the adult
literacy rate was 88% and education attainment rate was 57.3%, which compared
favorably with more economically advanced Asian countries.,,
I         The education attainment rate is a combination of the adult
literacy rate and mean years of schooling.



- 4 -
2.9        aual Accles Across Segxes.  Generally speaking, Vietnamese society
values education for girls as highly as for boys, and Viet Nam has achieved
basic parity in terms of education attainment between the sexes.  In 1988,
female attainment was 94% of that of males for primary and 93% for secondary
education. The educational system Is co-educational at all levels, and overt
discrimination on the basis of gender has been minimized. Girls represent
48%, 56%, 46% and 42% of the primary, lower secondary, higher secondary, and
university enrollments, respectively. Such problems as do arise tend to
coexist with conditions of poverty or the relative isolation of the population
cohort. In the mountainous regions, for example, participation rates are much
lower for girls than for boys, and dropout rates are higher. Over twice as
m&ny females are illiterate in these regions. Moreover, throughout Viet Nam,
poor families may withdraw daughters from school more readily than sons, since
the former are perceived to be more useful around the house.
2.10      Decentralization.  Although control over the economy and the
political system has been highly centralized, t facto control over the
education system has been quite decentralized from both financial and
administrative standpoints. Even though the MOZT has a wide range of
responsibilities, all of these national norms can be and are substantially
affected by the local conditions and resource envelop. This decentralization
is partly the result of an explicit policy designed to give greater
flexibility to the sub-national level; but it is also the result of a tight
national budget constraint which leaves much expenditure responsibility to the
provincial level. Viet Nam's poorly developed transportation and
communications networks also inherit the center's inability to exercise
effective control over the grassroots level.
2.11      Local control and resRonsibility.  Complementing this decentralized
structure is the influence that local authorities exercise in the classroom.
Provincial governments and wealthier districts supplement nationally-
determined teachers' salaries with their own resources. The only national
examination is given during the final year of upper-secondary, so most
examinations are generated at the school, district, or province level (with
the attendant strengths and weaknesses such a system provides). Model
classroom designs developed nationally also are routinely modified and
simplified. Since teaching aids are often unavailable, teachers innovate. At
the individual school level, the principals are very much in charge, having a
major say in hiring and firing of teachers and identifying facilities for
expansion or repair. They also oversee the school budget, which is typically
augmented by fees or afintributions from parents and can be used for a range of
school-sponsored activities.
2.12      Involvement of the parents and the community in grimary education.
A corollary of the historic respect for education and the decentralized
administrarion is the active involvement of parents and communities in school
activities, particularly in the financing of primary education. Primary
schools frequently have active Parents' Association which meet regularly and
raise money for the school. Virtually all construction or repair of primary
schools in recent years has been financed largely by the Parents'
Associations, usually with some contribution from the commune People's
Committees (and occasionally from the district or province). Parents'



- 5 -
Associations also routinely finance operating and maintenance costs and may
supplement teachers' salaries.
Main Problems of the Primary Education Subsector
2.13      Notwithstanding the efforts to enroll children in primary school,
the subsector currently faces serious problems, as evidenced by high wastage
rates. While the causes of repetition and dropout are complex and not fully
understood, dimensions of the problem include: (a) generalized poverty; (b)
poor quality caused by inadequate financing levels and intra-sectoral
allocation patterns; (c) inadequate and/or inappropriate educational inputs;
(d) weaknesses in primary education management and administration; and (e)
shortcomings in curricula and pedagogy.
2.14      Repetition and Dropout.  Children are supposed to enter primary
school at age six and complete by the time they turn eleven. Although the net
enrollment ratio is almost 90%, the gross enrollment ratio (or total
enrollment divided by the number of children aged 6-10) was 105%, indicating
that about 20% of the enrollment was younger than 6 or older than 10. Recent
statistics indicate that the majority are over-age students who have repeated
one or more grades. In 1990-91, repetition rates ranged from 5 to 12%, while
dropout rates ranged from 7 to 27% by grade. W7hen repetition and dropout are
combined, the total wastage rate is substantial. It is estimated that, out of
every 1,000 students enrolling in primary, about half complete the cycle, and
of these, 300 complete the cycle in five years. These statistics compare
unfavorably with other countries in the region (e.g., 640 of 1,000 completing
primary in Thailand and 800 of 1,000 completing primary in Indonesia).
2.15      Poverty.  For poor families, there are both direct and indirect
costs related to keeping a child in school. Direct costs include expected
contributions to Parents Associations, textbooks, uniforms, transportation,
and materials. Although primary education through Grade Three is technically
free, cultural norms mandate the annual purchase of new textbooks and
contributions to local Parents' Associations. Some parents cannot afford
these expenditures, and their children frequently remain without the full set
of textbooks. And children without access to textbooks are among the most
likely to fail, repeat, or drop out.
2.16      More insidious are the indirect costs (or opportunity costs)
associated with schooling. Children are frequently taken out of school when
they are considered old enough to be productive members of the family unit.
This is a problem which is not amenable to education solutions alone and is
typically overcome when thie general level of income rises to a point where
families can dispense with child labor. Even so, education investments can
positively influence parental decisions, either by making the learning
environment sufficiently attractive that parents are willing to forego
potential income and invest in their children's education, or by reinforcing
parent's perceptions that potential benefits of schooling outweigh the costs.
2.17      As in many developing countries, poverty in Viet Nam is still a
predominantly rural phenomenon. Poverty also has a strong regional dimension,



- 6 -
with north and central provinces generally poorer than southern provinces.
Nevertheless, there is great variation within individual provinces, which
makes targeting interventions doubly difficult. Mountainous regions are
clearly the most disadvantaged in terms of availability of infrastructure and
social services and their remoteness from markets and information centers.
Viet Nam's ethnic minorities (which comprise 13% of the total population and
reside largely in mountainous areas) pose a particular challenge since they
are amongst the poorest and least educated people in Viet Nam.
2.18      Financing.  Expenditures on formal education represented only 2% of
GDP in 1990, compared with an average of 3% of GDP for other countries in the
region. Even though the allocation for education in the Government's
consolidated budget increased from 6.9% in 1986 to 8.1% in 1989 and 12% in
1991, education's share was still modest in comparison with the allocation for
education in many other developing countries, which allocate about 15-20% to
education. Because of insufficient resources, the Government has been unable
to sustain its achievements in the education sector, much less keep pace with
population growth, improve the system, or expand it to those areas (such as
the Mekong Delta and the mountains) and groups (particularly ethnic
minorities) less well served.
2.19      One aspect of the financing issue is the ineguitable distribution
of resources among regions and social groups. Because 80% of the budget for
primary education derives from local sources, actual per capita expenditures
on primary vary dramatically among provinces as well as within them. For all
the advantages of the decentralized system, it preserves and even exacerbates
regional disparities and inequitable access to education opportunities.
2.20       Education Inputs. Inadequate and/or inappropriate educational
inputs frequently stem from the lack of resources and include: a
deteriorating and inadequate infrastructure; insufficient and poor-quality
textbooks; a lack of equipment, furniture, and teaching aids; a poorly paid
and decreasingly motivated teaching corps; and an inability to develop (and
finance) solutions for the obdurate and special problems of ethnic-minority
children.
2.21      One of the most serious problems is posed by deteriorating and
insufficient Dhysical facilities. Over the course of project preparation,
existing primary schools in Viet Nam were divided into three categories: (i)
those in good condition, needing only minor repair; (ii) those requiring major
repair or rehabilitation; and (iii) those which were so dilapidated or flimsy
that they needed to be replaced altogether. Unfortunately, most facilities
fell into the second or third category. In the cities, many primary schools
were built before Independence and have become seriously dilapidated and even
dangerous. In the Mekong Delta, many are so-called "temporary" schools, built
by local communities of branches, palm leaves, and thatch on mud foundations.
These are highly impermanent structures which suffer major damage during the
annual rainy season and must be replaced every second or third year. Schools
in mountainous areas are typically built of branches and mud and are dark,
unstable, and unsuitable for effective teaching and learning. Moreover, most
schools do not provide adequate sanitary facilities.



- 7 -
2.22      Limited access to education is also a factor:  in ethnic minority
areas where schools may not exist; in remote, rural, and Mekong Delta areas
where schools may not offer all five grades; and in cities where schools may
be severely overcrowded. Although each commune is supposed to have a primary
school, small communities in the sparsely settled mountainous regions may not.
In such a setting--where there may be only 15 to 20 primary aged children--the
traditional solution of building a classroom and providing a teacher for each
grade level is both impractical and costly. In the past, the practice was to
bring such children to boarding schools in the lowlands. Evidence suggests
that this approach was expensive and not particularly effective in keeping
young children in school.
2.23      In some areas, existing schools do not have enough classrooms for
all children in the catchment area, and the pattern is to have a "central"
school (offering all five grades of the primary cycle), surrounded by one or
more "affiliate" schools which offer the lower grades only. Such facilities,
designated incomplete affiliate schools, may be located from one to fifteen
kilometers away from the central school. Once the grade(s) offered by the
affiliate school have been completed, the child is expected to travel the
additional distance to the central school. For many children, this additional
distance is too great.
2.24      Most primary schools use a double shift, each classroom being used
by one class in the morning and another in the afternoon. However,
overcrowding is so severe in the large cities and some areas of the Mekong
Delta that classrooms may be used by as many as three classes each day. This
practice, known as triple-shifting, has many disadvantages. The school day
starts early and ends late. One of the three sessions is invariably shorter
than the other two and is of insufficient length for the already tight
curriculum. Children in this session are short-changed in terms of contact
hours with the teacher and the material, with the result that they do less
well and are more likely to repeat or drop out.
2.25      The quality of education delivered is negatively impacted by
inadequate and insufficient textbooks and deficient learning materials. It is
customary for students to try to purchase a full set of textbooks every year.
Textbooks are produced by the Education Publishing House (EPH) under the MOET.
EPH faces a number of problems. Some relate to publishing: arbitrary
selection of authors; poor editing services; low-quality manuscript designs;
poor illustrations and page layout. Others relate to printing: arbitrary
selection of printers; poor-quality printing services; and low-quality, high-
priced paper. EPH has not been concerned about the books' poor physical
quality since they are not expected to be used more than one school year.
Still others relate the distribution system: inadequate packaging leaves
books vulnerable to transportation, handling, and storage damage; poor
scheduling; and inadequate storage in provincial warehouses.
2.26      EPH financial management practices need improvement.  Textbooks are
sold at a quarter or less of their true manufacturing cost, partly due to the
Government's attempt to keep textbooks affordable to the largest number of
children, and partly because EPH obtains some inputs at subsidized prices.



- a -
Although EPH is expected to rely on the substantial inputs and the book sales
to break even, it is able to recover only a portion of its costs. As a
production unit, it is chronically short of cash and in debt to its creditors,
since it borrows money to produce books, then pays it back little by little,
as it is recovered from schools throughout the country. Deiays ir cost
recovery, exacerbated by inflation, mean that EPH never quite recovers the
price at which the book was valued when it was printed. This makes for
inefficiency in both economic and educational terms. The production calendar
is dependent upon financial resource availability and the pace of cost
recovery. In consequence, production capacity is not used optimally
throughout the year. Furthermore, because of its financial constraints, EPH
produces the number of textbooks it estimates can be sold, rather than the
number required to provide all children with books.
2.27      EPH's problems are exacerbated by curriculum variation and having
to produce many textbooks for each grade. At present, three curricula exist:
i) the standard curriculum (of 165 weeks total, or 33 weeks per school year,
taught in the majority of lowland schools); ii) the abridged curriculum (of
120 weeks total, or 24 weeks per school year, taught in isolated ethnic
minority areas); and iii) the abbreviated curriculum (of 100 weeks total,
taught to youth and young adults pursuing evening primary-equivalency
courses). Although there is merit in adapting curriculum to local
circumstances, the Government simply cannot afford to produce different
textbooks for each curricula. There are also too many textbooks for each
grade; there are ten for Grade One alone. It is estimated that only 60% of
the primary students have a full set of textbooks geared to the standard
curriculum; the remaining students try to cope with partial sets.
2.28      Until 1989, the Government attempted to supply a complete set of
textbooks free of charge to all primary-school children. When it became
apparent that financial constraints would preclude achieving this objective,
the Government shifted to a policy of selling textbooks, albeit at highly
subsidized prices. Children who could not afford to buy were supposed to be
able to rent or borrow textbooks from the school library. This system did not
work because parents and pupils were still oriented toward trying to buy
books, the books themselves were insufficiently durable to last beyond one
year, and schools rarely had sufficient funds to finance the rental and loan
scheme.
2.29      Given the inability to provide all primary children with textbooks
of low quality at subsidized prices, it seems inevitable that Viet Nam must
move toward a system in which all children have access to higher-quality
textbooks, most use them for a year and return them to the system and a
buy them outright (at a price closely reflecting production costs). A cost-
effective, equitable, and sustainable system that ensures all primary children
timely access to a full set of textbooks is necessary. EPH needs to be
improved both technically (i.e. textbook production aspects) and financially
(i.e. operations management).
2.30      The project would streamline and enhance EPH operations in several
ways. First, it would strengthen textbook production management by: (a)
establishing a uniform curriculum; (b) consolidating the number of titles for



- 9-
each grade and reducing the amount of material in each textbook; (c) improving
editorial guidelines and procedures; (d) introducing competitive procedures
for selecting authors, procuring paper and printing services, and shipping
textbook to distribution points; (e) improving scheduling of textbook
publishing, printing, and distribution; (f) improving packing and warehousing
of textbooks during distribution; (g) improving mechanisms for textbook field
testing and revision; and (h)--probably most importantly--fostering an
effective textbook "recycling" system (i.e. using textbooks by different
students for more than one year). Second, it would develop and produce
textbooks and learning materials for bilingual education and multi-grade
teaching to meet the special needs of ethnic minority children. Thlrd, it
would improve textbook content and appearance (format, layout, graphics), and
durability (covers, paper, binding), extending the effective life of textbooks
to three to five years. The Government has confirmed its intention to
progressively reduce subsidies to EPH and Introduce a uniform 165-week
curriculum.
2.31      Classroom equipment, furniture, and teaching aids, where they are
available at all, are often 20-30 years old and in poor repair. Many rural
schools do not have desks; often the only teaching aid other than textbooks is
a blackboard. Although teachers display enormous ingenuity and creativity in
making their own teaching aids, some very simple equipment (i.e. globes, maps,
simple weighing and measuring devices) would facilitate teaching.
2.32      The poor guality of teaching is also a problem.  This may stem from
faulty qualifications (since only about one-third of primary teachers have
proper credentials) or poor quality teacher training. Primary teacher
training schools are supported by the provinces, and although facilities are
generally adequate, resources vary considerably from school to school.
Moreover, all lack the capacity to expose teacher trainees to actual learning
conditions in primary schools. Another factor is low remuneration levels for
the teaching profession. Teachers earn about 0.8 - 1.2 times the per capita
GNp. This figure was very low in comparison with those of other Asian
countries, where primary teachers' salaries average 2.6 times the per capita
GNP. Low salaries have led many teachers to augment their income through
moonlighting. In the early 1990s, it was estimated that nearly two-thirds of
all teachers worked overtime, many in non-teaching jobs.
2.33      Viet Nam's ethnic diversity has complicated its attempts to achieve
universal primary education. Of the 54 recognized ethnic groups, ethnic
Vietnamese (Kinh) represent about 87% of the total population. Of the
remaining 53 groups, 2 have populations in excess of 1 million and another 12
have populations ranging from 0.1 to 1 million. The smallest groups may
comprise as few as 100-200 people. Regardless of size, each group has its own
language, dialects, and culture. Most groups live in mountainous areas where
difficult access combined with unique cultural conditions make it hard for the
Government to supply any education at all, much less one of an acceptable and
appropriate standard. Therefore, even if the full "package" of primary-
education inputs--classrooms, water supply, latrines, basic furniture,
textbooks and teaching aids--were available (rarely the case), it would be
insufficient to attract and retain ethnic minority children in school. Even



- 10 -
where education facilities exist, they may not be used optimally since, as
noted, the school year or school day (or both) have been shorter than those
for the standard curriculum (para. 2.27).
2.34      Not surprisingly, one problem is language.  Children coming to
school for the first time may encounter an ethnic Vietnamese teacher speaking
and using textbooks written in a language that they have never heard before.
Although the Government has experimented with textbooks in various minority
languages, it has never had the resources to generalize bilingual education
and produce the full range of textbooks in the major minority languages. One
solution, namely recruiting ethnic minority youth and training them as
teachers, is hampered by two difficulties. First, few suitable candidates
exist (i.e., ethnic minority youth who have sufficient educational background
to be trained as teachers). Second, in some areas, ethnic minorities are so
mixed that several different languages may be found in a single classroom.
2.35      Weaknesses in the management and administration of the primary-
education system. In comparison with many other systems, primary education in
Viet Nam is relatively well managed because school principals have
considerable authority and autonomy. Principals are carefully selected,
undergo training prior to assuming their posts, and tend to be accountable as
educators and responsible as school leaders. Nevertheless, problems persist
because those in a position to allocate resources at higher levels often lack
the information they need to target special efforts or redress distortions in
provision of education.
2.36      Education statistics (on pupils, their parents, their educational
progress, school enrollments, school and classroom facilities, attendance
month by month, teaching and administrative personnel, school revenues and
expenditures, etc.) are collected at each primary school and transmitted to
the relevant District Education Office. Although aggregate figures on
enrollments and physical facilities are amalgamated (usually by hand) at the
district level and forwarded to provincial authorities, most useful
information stays at the district level. The Provincial Education Service
does its own amalgamation and transmits these totals to the MOET. The process
is slow and laborious, and errors creep in.
2.37      Critical information--such as the number of school-aged children
no in school in a given catchment area, drop-out levels during the school
year, and repetition rates from year to year--never reaches education managers
at the provincial and national levels.1 The practice of presenting education
statistics in aggregate makes it impossible to monitor actual repetition and
dropouts or allow education managers to take prompt corrective action and
target financial assistance appropriately.
2.38      In general, education management could be improved through:  (a) a
better knowledge base on which to make decisions about rationalizing the
F         By contrast, District Education Services frequently have accurate
and detailed knowledge regarding children not in school because such
information is obtained during annual summer enrollment campaigns.



- 11 -
existing system; (b) more systematic collection, storage, processing and
utilization of enrollment statistics, education finance data, and location
data needed for school mapping; and (c) an improved project implementation
capacity, including enhanced ability to prepare sound education programs and
undertake more systematic monitoring and evaluation of government programs in
primary education.
2.39      Inappropriate curricula.  A long term reform process was begun in
the late 1970s, and, by September 1981, a new curriculum was introduced in the
first grade. By September 1992, the process was completed through the last
year of secondary school. Although representing a substantial improvement,
the Government recognizes that the present curriculum has problems. In
particular, primary children are expected to learn too much given the length
of the school year. Such "overcrowding" of the curriculum is hypothesized to
be one of the factors contributing to repetition and dropout. Recognizing
this, local authorities have begun to revise the curriculum again, and the
first changes will be introduced in the first grade in 1995 or 1996.
C. Government's DeveloRment Strategy
2.40      Overview.  The broad outlines of a development strategy for Viet
Nam are clear. Given the country's location and human resource base, it has
the potential to follow the export-led approach pursued by other East Asian
countries. To a large extent, the economy is already on this path. The
Government's development strategy has five specific objectives: (a) maintain
macroeconomic stability; (b) make a rapid transition to a market system; (c)
improve basic infrastructure; (d) alleviate poverty and reduce regional
inequalities; and (e) preserve the nation's natural resource base so that
economic achievements can be sustained over the long term.
2.41      Education and Training Strategy.  Education has a high intrinsic
value in Vietnamese society, and the Government views education as a directly
productive input. The Government consistently has placed the highest priority
on providing basic education for all and education/training beyond the basic
level to those meeting the entrance requirements.
2.42      The main elements of the strategy for primary education, covered in
the Government's report "Basic Education in Viet Nam through the Year 2000"
include: (a) universalization of primary education; (b) reduced illiteracy;
(c) provision of special support to disadvantaged groups (such as ethnic
minority children); (d) consolidation of the primary teacher training system;
(e) enhancing educational quality through improved learning materials and
textbooks; and (f) strengthening the administration of primary education.
2.43      Recent laws demonstrate Government commitment to education.  In
1991, the National Assembly approved laws on the Protection, Care, and
Education of Children and on Universalization of Primary Education. The
former establishes the right of all children to primary education and their
responsibility to complete it. The latter makes primary education (Grades One
through Five) compulsory for children between the ages of six and fourteen,
and stipulates that the State shall allocate an appropriate amount from its
budget for the purposes of universalizing primary education. Government



- 12 -
budgets also increasingly reflect the priority given to education. The July
1991 Party Central Committee session voted to increase the education budget by
508. Approved budgets for 1992 and 1993 have been a substantial increase over
those of preceding years, both in real terms and as a percentage of total
expenditures. The proportion for education and training (14% in 1992) is to
increase annually over the next five years, reaching at least 15% and perhaps
as much as 18% by 1995 (see Annex 2 on Education Finance).
D. Bank Grow, Strategy
2.44      Ovrview.  The Bank's goal in Viet Nam is to promote broad-based
economic development and combat poverty. The overall country assistance
strategy emphasizes: (a) working closely with the IMF to strengthen the
Government's macroeconomic management; (b) supporting a rapid transition to a
market system through development of key institutions; (c) taking the lead
among donors in assisting the Government to plan and finance infrastructure
development; (d) helping the Government to develop and implement poverty
alleviation and human resource development strategies; and (f) helping the
Government to develop and implement a strategy for sustainable use of natural
resources.
2.45      Education Sector. The Bank's objective in the education sector is
twofold. First, it seeks to support Viet Nam's desire to achieve qualitative
and quantitative improvements in its education system so as to ensure an
adequate and appropriately trained supply of labor for a growing market
economy. Second, it seeks to address the more egregious manifestations of
poverty through direct interventions designed to improve the quality of life
for the poor, and in particular women and children, who frequently are the
last to benefit from the early fruits of rapid economic growth. The education
project would also have specific components targeted to particularly
vulnerable groups -- in this case, ethnic minority children living in Viet
Nam's mountainous provinces.
2.46      Viet Nam's long term efforts to improve overall education will
depend critically upon building a solid foundation at the primary and
secondary levels. Thus, IDA's first operation will be to strengthen primary
education, to some extent building on and multiplying successful approaches of
other international agencies long resident in Viet Nam. Anticipated support
from the Asian Development Bank in secondary education would complement this
intervention. The Bank is also discussing with the Government ways of
assisting reform of the higher education and vocational training systems so as
to make them demand driven.
2.47      The project evolved in the context of a major Human Resources
Sector Review (conducted by UNESCO and financed by UNDP), in which the Bank
Group participated as an "Associated Agency." Assisted by international
experts, Vietnamese working groups examined all aspects of the education and
training system and addressed the problems facing the sector candidly. They
developed a comprehensive report which described and analyzed the problems,
proposed alternative strategies for improving the sector, and put forth
specific investment proposals.



- 13 -
E. Experience with_Past LAnding
2.48      To date there have been no Bank Group-assisted projects in the
education and training sector in Viet Nam. In fact, the only operation has
been an irrigation project, for which an IDA Credit was approved in 1978. The
Project Performance Audit Report for this project offered some lessons useful
in preparing the education project:
(a) The Government has little familiarity with competitive
bidding, and virtually none with international competitive
bidding (ICB);
(b) The Government is more familiar with labor-intensive
construction techniques than with machinery-intensive ones;
and
(c) The project design should be sufficiently detailed to give a
Borrower agency unfamiliar with IDA a clear blueprint of how
to proceed with project implementation.
2.49      These lessons have been taken into account in the design of the
project, as follows:
(a) In 1992, IDA carried out a procurement seminar in Viet Nam, to
which MOET was invited. Furthermore, the candidate chosen for
the post of Assistant Project Manager for Administration and
Finance would be internationally recruited and trained in Bank
Group procurement procedures prior to assuming the post.
Local competitive bidding procedures relevant to the project
would be codified.
(b) All civil works under the project would be small-scale and
would use labor-intensive construction techniques presently
used to build and repair primary schools.
(c) Detailed working papers have been prepared for each aspect of
the project, in order to give the Borrower a blueprint for
implementation. Papers not annexed to this document are
available in the project files. In addition, the Supervision
Plan (Annex 24) programs intensive supervision at project
inception and during the first two years of implementation.



- 14 -
III. SHiE RRDECT
A. Project Objectives
3.1       The project's objectives are to:
(a)  improve the _Ualitv and relevance of primary edfcation by
providing essential inputs needed (textbooks, teaching aids,
better trained teachers, and the specialized approaches
required for ethnic minority children) and supporting
introduction of a uniform school day and school year for all
regular primary classes;
(b) rehabilitate existing infrastructure and extend access; and
(c)  strengthen the management of Drimary_edMcation at the school,
district, provincial, and national levels by increasing and
enhancing information available to education managers and
their ability to use it.
B. Project Components and Activities by Obiective
Objective One:  Improve Oualitv and Relevance
3.2       To address causes of repetition and drop-out, the project would:
(a) Strengthen the EPH's capacity to manage the development,
printing, and distribution of textbooks and learning
materials;
(b) Provide simple teaching aids to all primary schools;
(c) Provide teaching aids and other inputs to all primary teacher
training schools (in order to improve the quality of training
imparted and enhance trainee's awareness of conditions in the
primary classroom); and
(d) Introduce multi-grade teaching practices and bilingual
education in remote schools catering to ethnic-minority
children.
3.3       Textbook Development. Printing, and Distribution (Annex 3).  During
NsUUiLtiUGl, the Borrower gave assurances that it would maintain EPH with
functions, powers, responsibilities and funding satisfactory to the
Association, staffed by competent staff in adequate numbers. However, to
ensure that EPH begins to put itself on a stronger financial and managerial
footing, the agency would need to prepare an Annual Business Plan which would
set forth the strategy and goals for the coming year, in particular the
financial, physical, and production/distribution targets. During



- 15 -
8PdsikatiQa. the Government provided assurances that EPH would: prepare and
submit a plan of acceptable scope to IDA by October 1 of each year, commencing
on October 1, 1994; review the plan with IDA by December 1 of every year,
comencing on December 1, 1994; and thereafter, taking into account the
Association's comments implement the plan in a manner acceptable to the
Association. Preparation and review of the EPH Business Plan would be
conducted in the context of the project's Annual Work Program (see para.
5.30).
3.4       Under the project, equipment would be provided to enable EPH to
improve graphic design, page layout, manuscript design, typesetting, and other
activities relating to textbook quality.f  Short term consultants would be
hired to provide in-house training for EPH staff (in competitive procurement
procedures, accounting, textbook authorship, manuscript preparation, textbook
illustration, page layout, graphic design, use of desk-top publishing
equip; nt, and textbook production). 2  Short-term training abroad, to be
carried out mostly in nearby countries (Hong Kong, Malaysia, Thailand,
Singapore, and the Philippines), would permit key EPH staff to observe
textbook production, editing, management, and distribution in countries which
rely on market mechanisms and free competition to achieve better quality at
less cost.
3.5       IDA Credit proceeds would be used for the production of new
textbooks, including standard and ethnic textbooks, workbooks, and standard
and ethnic teachers' guides1'. The major components of production costs would
be publishing (design, lay-out etc.), paper, cover, printing, and binding.
New textbook production is expected to commence in the second project year for
grades 1 and 2, in the third year for grades 3 and 4, and in the fourth year
for grade 5. Textbook print quantities over the project period have been
determined based on the projected numbers of pupils and teachers and the fact
that the books would be more durable and therefore reusable for a 3-5 year
period. Print coverage will be 100% in the first year, 50% each in the second
and third years and 40% in the fourth year for the respective grades. Given
that workbooks and teachers' guides will not be recycled, annual print
quantities for those items would cover 100% of the annual need.
3.6       As noted, textbook production would be limited to only one
curriculum (the standard 165-week cycle). The number of standard textbooks
Y         The equipment would enable EPH to exercise improved editorial and
quality control, but not undertake major production tasks, which would be
contracted out.
P         Detailed Terms of Reference for textbook consultants are given in
Annex 14.
1         IDA Credit proceeds will not be used to finance:  (a) production of
old textbooks, workbooks or teachers' guides; (b) non-shipping elements of the
distribution costs; (C) any part of overhead costs, including textbook
development; (d) the reduction of EPH's debt burden; or (e) the production of
new textbooks etc. beyond the fifth year of the project.



- 16 -
would be reduced from 29 to 21 titles. Nine workbooks would be produced for
grades 1 to 4. Eight ethnic textbooks would be introduced for the Thai,
Nuong, Nung, Hmong, Jarai, Bahnar, Cham and Sedang languagest1.  Twenty
teachers' guides would be prepared for the standard textbooks, and eight for
the ethnic language textbooks. Basic assumptions underpinning the textbook
component (regarding numbers of titles, size of cohort, print quantities,
production costs and distribution patterns) are given in Annex 3, Appendix 1.
3.7       A system for allocating textbooks would be Introduced incorporating
a mix of selling (at full cover price), yearly rental (for a fee about one-
third of the cover price), and lending (for free). EPS would continue to
distribute textbooks through its subsidiary companies. It is proposed that
the local distribution agencies take the lead in fostering and organizing
textbook delivery and recycling (para. 2.30). Such mechanisms already do
exist in Viet Nam, although on a fairly small scale. For example, the
district textbook and school supply distribution company in Danang has already
established a flourishing trade in secondhand and reconditioned textbooks, and
this system could be adapted by others. Provincial school libraries have also
been found to play a key role in managing equitable book distribution. During
the first year of the project, EPH would sponsor a national workshop to
explain the policy changes being undertaken and their implications for
textbook distribution at the local level. Subsidiary companies, as well as
district education authorities, school librarians and representatives of
Parents Associations would be invited to attend. Among other topics, the
workshop would address: (a) technical and managerial aspects of secondhand
book selling; (b) balancing equity and cost recovery considerations in
establishing a book distribution system; and (c) the potential role for
private companies, school authorities, and Parents Associations in making such
a system work. At Negotiations, the Government gave assurances that EPH would
by September 1, 1994, furnish to the Association for its review and comments,
a plan for textbook distribution and thereafter, taking into account the
Association's comments, implement such plan in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.
3.8       The cover price of textbooks is assumed to comprise production,
distribution, and overhead costs. These costs (estimated at present
Vietnamese prices), and consequently the cover prices, will inevitably rise as
a result of the reforms described earlier. It is assumed that, as cover
prices rise and the new distribution system takes effect, fewer children will
buy books, but more will rent or borrow. Hence, the initial sell:rent:lend
ratio of 35%:45%:20% would shift to 20%:45%:351 in project year five and
beyond.
I'        Ethnic minority language textbooks will supplement the standard
textbooks. The initial quantity of 8 titles is based on one per language,
although the number of titles may increase as the ethnic minority textbook
content is elaborated and developed.



- 17 -
3.9       Cost recovery would be effected on standard textbooks and
workbooksW. For standard textbooks, it would be on sales and rentals, and
for workbooks, it would be on sales only, since it is presumed that workbooks
are not reusable. It is proposed that the full cover price be recovered. On
rentals, the recovery would be spread over a (conservatively estimated) useful
life of three years.
3.10      Over the seven year implementation period, sales and rental
revenues would vest EPH with a significant cashflow, enabling them to: (a)
develop manuscripts for new textbooks (particularly ethnic language and multi-
grade texts); (b) cover textbook distribution and overhead costs wholly or in
part; and (c) produce textbooks after IDA financing ceases. Without affecting
these activities, EPH could use the balance of the revenues to: (a) produce
minimum quantities of old textbooks (not exceeding 30% of the respective
enrollment) until the new textbook production commences; and (b) provide
flexibility with regard to the mix of textbooks sold:rented:lent.u'
3.11      Based on reasonable assumptions, EPH's cashflow scenario (as
projected in Appendix 2 of Annex 3) shows a respectable cumulative net inflow
of US$ 9.8 million over a seven year period. Included in these calculations
are: (a) US$ 12.4 million (representing total distribution and overhead costs)
and (b) US$ 3.3 million (representing partial recovery of distribution and
overhead costs). If the textbook component is managed efficiently as
intended, EPH would have adequate seed capital to continue the new textbook
production and distribution system with minimum levels of subsidy from the
Government.
3.12      Provision of Teaching Aids to Primary Schools (Annex 4).  A fixed
list of simple equipment and teaching aids would be provided to all primary
schools. The list includes, inter alia, maps, charts, a globe, measuring and
weighing devices, and a set of basic reference books (an atlas, a dictionary,
a simple picture encyclopedia) and is estimated to cost US$250 equivalent.
3.13      Viet Nam has a long tradition whereby teachers develop and produce
their own teaching and learning aids. Efforts to encourage this practice have
included competitions, workshops, and incentives for teachers. The project
also would reinforce the tradition by supporting exhibitions of teacher-
produced learning aids. Two exhibitions would be organized during the project
period at local and national levels. At the provincial level, the school
whose teacher developed the best aid would receive a prize (consisting of a
set of "ideal" teaching aids and equipment). Winners of provinci&l
computitions would exhibit their entries in the national competitions.
k         Ethnic textbooks and teachers' guides would be distributed free of
charge; therefore, the question of cost recovery does not arise.
u'        Appendix 3 of Annex 3 presents some cost projections for items
gutside IDA financing (i.e. old textbooks, textbooks for Primary Teacher
Training Schools; standard and ethnic textbook development; etc.).



- 18 -
3.14      Provision of Inputs to Primary Teacher training Schools (Annex 5).
The project would provide low-cost but critical inputs to primary teacher
training institutions to improve conditions in the schools and encourage
awareness and analysis of actual conditions in the primary classroom: each
primary teacher training school would receive a standard package of inputs
including: (a) grants to cover transportation, housing and per diem to enable
second-year trainees to visit schools in their provinces and observe primary
classrooms firsthand; and (b) typewriters and simple equipment to enable
trainees to write up and disseminate the findings of their visits. Each
institution also would be given a budget of US$3,000 equivalent and asked to
draw up a list of equipment, facilities, reference books, or other teaching
aids deemed most needed. Lists would be reviewed and approved by the respec-
tive Provincial Education Service and MOET's Department of Teacher Training.
3.15      Introduction of Multi-Grade Teaching and Bilingual Education for
Ethnic Minorities (Annex 6). To ensure that ethnic minority children have
access to high quality, relevant primary education, a comprehensive package of
integrated assistance is needed which includes specialized learning materials,
teacher training in improved pedagogies, and changes to existing curriculum
policies. Where the number of children in a given catchment area is
insufficient to justify having a teacher for each grade level or the children
do not speak Vietnamese, multi-grade and bilingual teaching practices should
be introduced. Teachers and administrators at such schools would require
training and special support from supervisors. Finally, to ensure that
exist-ng classrooms and teachers are used optimally, that EPH is not
overburdened trying to supply textbooks for two curricula, and that all
primary-aged children throughout the country receive a similar quality of
education, a single standard for the school day and the school year would
prevail (para. 2.30).
3.16      Eight ethnic minorities have been selected to participate in the
project: (Thai, Kuong, Nung, Hmong, Jarai, Bahnar, Cham and Sedang).W  The
component was designed in consultation/collaboration with representatives of
target populations, local experts, and two international agencies long active
in Viet Nam, UNICEF and World Vision.  UNICEF has done a great deal of work in
the areas of multi-grade teaching, and the project would build upon this
experience. UNICEF would remain actively involved in project implementation
in an advisory capacity, providing support and guidance from a resident
education specialist. World Vision, an international non-governmental
organization (NCO), has had considerable experience in mother tongue literacy.
At the request of the MOET, World Vision agreed to supply two internationally-
recruited technical specialists (an Applied Linguistics Advisor and an Ethnic
Minority Literacy Advisor) to reside in Viet Nam for the duration of the
project.
3.17      Under the project, IDA would finance: (a) 115.25 staff months of
international and 560 staff months of local expertise to inter alia, support
J2          These eight groups represent about 45% of the total ethnic
minority population of Viet Nam. Except for the Cham, all live primarily in
the mountainous regions.



- 19 -
implementation of multi-grade teaching, study ethnic minority languages and
develop children's dictionaries, standardize scripts for languages already
written, and develop writing systems for those that are not; (b) workshops for
teachers in multi-grade pedagogies, teaching of mother-tongue literacy, and
teaching of Vietnamese as the national language; (c) development of learning
materials suitable for multi-grade schools;2 and (d) development of learning
materials in the eight selected ethnic minority languages. Learning materials
for some languages (Thai, Nung, Jarai, and Cham) have been developed but need
to be updated. Similar materials need to be developed in the other selected
languages (Muong, Hmong, Bahnar and Sedang).
Objective Two: Rehabilitate Infrastructure and Extend Access
3.18      Viet Nam's attempt to universalize primary education is
increasingly threatened by severely decaying infrastructure and problems of
access. In fact, the enrollment ratio has actually declined in the recent
past because investments have not kept pace with population growth and the
country risks losing much of its previous investment if long-delayed
maintenance and repairs are not undertaken urgently.
3.19      The objective would be supported through: (a) rehabilitation and
repair of dilapidated and dangerous classrooms; (b) construction of a limited
iiumber of new classrooms based upon specific criteria; and (c) provision of
water supply, latrines, and furniture for these classrooms. In addition,
technical assistance would be provided to help the MOET develop appropriate
school construction and maintenance techniques. Three geographical areas have
been identified as the most needy. The five major cities (Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh
City, Haiphong, Danang, and Hui), where classrooms are very old and
dilapidated, would be supported during a first phase of the project. Selected
districts in eleven provinces of the Mekong Delta, where schools are built of
impermanent materials and problems of triple-shifting, incomplete affiliate
schools, and limited access are widespread, would be addressed during the
second phase of the project. Finally, selected districts in eight mountainous
provinces, where the poverty of the sparsely settled population (often ethnic
minorities) has limited the quality and availability of facilities, would be
the focus in the third phase of the project.W
3.20      As noted earlier, the problem of insufficient capacity has three
manifestations: limited access (para. 2.22); incomplete affiliate schools
(para. 2.23); and triple-shifting (para. 2.24). Under the project, population
clusters with primary school-aged children but no school within a "reasonable
distance" (about five kilometers) would be eligible for additional facilities.
Where problems of triple shifting and incomplete affiliate schools are not
1         Including payments to authors and testing, printing, and
distribution of materials.
W         Of the 53 provinces, 3 were city-provinces, 11 were lowland
provinces of the Mekong Delta, 3 were lowland provinces of the Red River
Delta, and 36 were partially or wholly mountainous provinces.



- 20 -
amenable to resolution through better scheduling or multi-grade teaching,
additional classrooms would be supplied based on dimensional considerations
outlined In Annex 7. It is important to note that the project will not supply
additional facilities basec upon normal population growth, but only against
the specific criteria described above.
3.21      School iapng (Annex 8).  During project preparation, local school
authorities, in cooperation with the MOET's Department of Planning and Finance
and the Research and Design Institute for School Construction (RDICS), became
familiar with school mapping as a tool for determining classroom needs. A
school map shows the distribution of school-age children in relation to
existing facilities in a given area. It is useful in determining whether
problems like triple-shifting can be resolved through improved scheduling or
other means. As it inventories existing facilities in relationship to
existing demand, it is also useful in setting priorities in a resource-
constrained environment. The capacity to set priorities is crucial in the
project, given that the Credit would be able to assist only a fraction of the
total anticipated need.
3.22      School maps have already been prepared for most districts in the
five major cities and for many in the Mekong Delta and the mountainous
provinces. These maps will need updating, and the school mapping exercise
should be extended nationwide. Technical assistance will be provided to
assist with this exercise. School mapping activities should be coordinated by
the respective Provincial Education Services under the guidance of the MOET.
The Government would prepare and furnish to IDA the outlines of a phased
school mapping program for all districts in Viet Nam. The program should
specify the schedule of mapping requirements for districts included under the
project, as follows: Phase I (Five Largest Cities) maps were completed prior
to October 1, 199a; Phase II (the Mekong Delta) maps to be completed by
October 1, 1994; Phase III (the Mountainous Areas) maps to be completed by
October 1, 1995. This program should be incorporated into the AnnialMWork
Frggrar and its progress should be reviewed annually with IDA (para. 5.30).
D*urngNeggtiatlons, assurances were given that MOET would implement a phased
program of school mapping covering all of Viet Nam, acceptable to the
Association, to be completed by December 31, 2000.
3.23      Phase One Construction:  Selected Communities in the Five Largest
Cities (Annex 9). Because dilapidation and triple shifting are most acute,
and because civil works can be accomplished more easily in the cities than in
other parts of the country, urban areas will be targeted first. This would
allow the Borrower to meet high-priority needs while gaining useful experience
in implementing IDA-financed construction. The first priority in the five
cities would be repairing or replacing seriously dilapidated schools. The
second priority would be constructing additional classrooms where existing
facilities are insufficient and problems cannot be relieved through better
scheduling or rationalization of existing enrollment patterns.
3.24      It is proposed that, in the five cities, 665 classrooms would be
repaired and 486 would be replaced/expanded. This figure represents about 20%
of the total identified need in each category for each city. In addition,



- 21 -
1,438 latrines and 72 water systems would be supplied (about 25% of projected
need). Technical assistance would be provided to advise on typhoon-resistant
structures and sanitation and develop a maintenance manual appropriate for
urban schools. Finally, each school benefiting from civil works under this
component would receive the furniture (desks, chairs, blackboards, and storage
cupboards) needed to function properly.
3.25      Phase Two: Selected Communities in the Mekong Delta (Annex 10).
About one-fourth of all Vietnamese live in the Mekong Delta, making it one of
the most densely populated regions of the country. Construction choices
would be based on criteria agreed with IDA during preparation and presented in
the Annex. About 2,000 classrooms would be repaired and 3,000 would be
replaced/expanded, which represents 18% of total need for repair and
replacement/expansion in each project province in the Mekong Delta. Flood-
resistant classrooms would be provided, along with technical assistance to
develop a maintenance manual appropriate for the schools. Suitable furniture
(including desks, chairs, blackboards, and storage cupboards) would be
provided to project schools where it does not already exist. Since most
schools in the Mekong Delta are located in the midst of areas of standing
water during the rainy season, special attention has to be given to health and
environmental considerations. Technical assistance would be provided under
the project to help design environmentally appropriate technologies and
proceduros for: (a) construction and maintenance of about 5,000 suitable
latrines (18% of need), (b) provision of safe drinking water at about 500
sites (about 18% of need), and (c) disposal of garbage. All schools
benefiting from civil works under the project also would be provided training
in their maintenance.
3.26      Phase Three:  Selected Communities in the Mountain Areas (Annex
11). Viet Nam has 36 provinces regarded as wholly or partially mountainous.
Although sparsely populated, these provinces cover the bulk of the geographic
area. Since it would be impossible to cover such a wide area in the current
project, eight provinces have been identified to participate in the project.
These provinces (Son La, Hoa Bitih, Lang Son, Yen Bai, Lao Cai, Gia Lai, Kon
Tum, and Ninh Thuan) were selected because they contain a large number of
ethnic minority inhabitants and UNICEF has already been active in these areas.
Criteria used to identify proposed sites were developed and agreed during
preparation and are presented in Annex 11.
3.27      During project preparation the importance of linking physical to
pedagogical improvements in ethnic minority areas was discussed, and the
outlines of a pilot program was agreed upon. Project-supported pedagogical
interventions (multi-grade teaching, mother tongue literacy, and teaching of
Vietnamese as the national language) supported under Objective One would begin
during the second year of the project in at least 40 schools (five in each of
the eight selected provinces) identified for physical upgrading under
Objective Two. During the third year of the project, additional schools would
be added. These pilot schools (which should number at least 200 by year
three) would be closely monitored, and during the fourth year of the project,
the performance of their students would be evaluated against control groups
where no pedagogic interventions had taken place. Based upon the
recommendations of this pilot program, the remaining schools scheduled for



- 22 -
rehabilitation in the mountainous areas would receive pedagogic interventions
during the final years of project implementation.
3.28      In total, the construction component for the mountainous areas
would comprise: (a) repair of about 1,550 existing classrooms and
replacement/expansion of about 2,700 dilapidated classrooms (about 30% of the
total need per participating province); (b) provision of 5,670 suitable
latrines to schools (40% of needs); (c) provision of suitable furniture where
it does not already exist; (d) provision of water systems at some 570 school
sites (also about 40% of needs). All schools benefiting from civil works
under the project also would be provided training in the maintenance of the
facilities.
Objective Three:  Strengthen the Management of Primary Education
3.29      To improve primary education management the project would support:
(a)  Rationalization of the primary education network;
(b)  Development of an education management information system; and
(c)  Improved implementation, monitoring and assessment capacity.
3.30      Rationalization of Primary Education Network.   Technical
assistance and training would be financed under the project to enable
education managers to undertake activities and carry out studies related to
the rationalization and development of primary education. A total of 23 staff
months of experts would assist with school mapping and education planning,
while a substantial training program would expose primary education managers
to conditions in other countries. This training activity is considered
essential for laying the basis for sound development of the subsector. Study
tours to industrialized countries (for selected national and provincial
managers) would demonstrate recent developments in education management theory
and practice, while study tours to neighboring countries would allow
administrators from the MOET, Provincial and District Education Services, and
a few primary schools, to observe and learn from experiences in nearby
countries. Annex 12 provides details concerning: (a) duration and purpose of
the different types of study tours and training courses; (b) qualifications of
candidates; (c) language requirements for candidates; (d) post-tour
obligations of candidates. The outlines of the training program were
discussed with MOET, and assurances have been obtained that study tours and
fellowships for education managers would be carried out in accordance with a
program acceptable to IDA.
3.31      DeveloRment of an Education Management Information System (EMIS).
The project would support the acquisition of both computers and software
programs appropriate to the development of an Education Management Information
System. The expertise necessary to adapt the software to Vietnamese
conditions and train local authorities in its use would be provided under the
project. An initial list of the software to be acquired has been reviewed and
approved by IDA. Microcomputers, other office equipment, and a limited number
of vehicles would be provided under the project to the main departments of the



- 23 -
MOET, the 53 Provincial Education Services, and selected District Education
Services.M An initial list of hardware to be acquired (Annex 13) has been
reviewed and approved by IDA.
3.32      Improved ImDlementation. Monitoring and Assessment Capacity.
Several activities are included. First, a Project Coordination Unit would be
established. A limiteo number of vehicles, some office equipment (including
computer hardware and software), incremental operating costs (including funds
for internal travel to supervise project implementation), and one expatriate
specialist in project administration (para. 5.3) would be provided under the
project. The structure, function and responsibilities of the Unit and the
provincial, district, and school network that would work with it has been
elaborated (paras. 5.1-5.7 and Annex 18). Second, to enable education
managers to monitor and evaluate the progress of government primary education
programs (including those supported under the project), about US$0.5 million
equivalent would be made available for technical assistance, printing, and
testing associated with a national sample-based education assessment. This
exercise would yield reliable data for monitoring and evaluating the
educational impact of the project and introduce a valuable, long-term
monitoring device for improving the education system. Annex 14 elaborates the
basic requirements for such an assessment and its component tasks (assessment
development, sample selection, assessment administration, scoring, preparation
of the data base, data analysis, and reporting of findings), as well as the
scheduling and budgeting for such an exercise.
3.33      Finally, an amount of US$1.23 million equivalent would be provided
to prepare pre-investment studies for potential investments in primary
education. Several tentative proposals have been put forward, including
assessments of recruitment, training, and remuneration policies and practices
that affect primary teachers and a study of curriculum development. During
Deg2tiions, assurances were obtained that all studies would be carried out
in accordance with terms of reference and timing acceptable to the
Association.
Summary of Project-Supported Technical Assistance
3.34      The project would provide a total of 1,094 staff months of
technical assistance, of which about 177 staff months would be internationally
recruited. The largest amounts of locally-recruited technical assistance
would support the ethnic minority inputs (560 staff months), the national
sample based assessment activity (150 staff months), and school mapping and
civil works (198 staff months), all of which require extensive data collection
and/or analysis over the course of implementation. Terms of Reference for
specialists financed under the project are presented in Annex 15. A breakdown
of technical assistance by input/sub-component, staff months, and unit costs
is presented in Annex 16, Detailed Costs.
WV   In particular, the District Education Services of the three city-
provinces need such equipment to be able to deal effectively with the large
numbeLs of schools and pupils for which they are responsible.



- 24 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Costs
4.1       Project costs are estimated at about US$78.00 million equivalent
net of taxes, with a foreign exchange component of about US$31.4 million
equivalent (or 40% of total project costs). Taxes (limited to those levied
internally on local purchases) were calculated at about US$2.19 million, for a
total project cost of US$80.19 million equivalent. These taxes have been
reflected in project costs but would not be financed from the proceeds of the
IDA Credit. Project costs are summarized by component in Table 4.1 and by
expenditure category in Table 4.2 below and are presented in a more detailed
format in Annex 17.
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST SUHMARY BY COMPONENT
US$ Million           %       t
Local  Foreign  Total   Foreign  Base
Improve Ouality and Relevance
Textbooks                          14.42    10.28   24.70        42    36
Teaching Aids for Schools           2.82     1.34    4.17        32      6
Teacher Training Inputs            0.07      0.30    0.37        81      1
Minority Education Inputs           0.47     1.37    1.84        74      3
Subtotal                               17.79    13.29   31.08        43    46
Rehabilitate Infrastructure & Extend Access
Major City Schools                  2.86     1.11    3.97        28     6
Mekong Delta Schools               10.11     3.67   13.77        27    20
Mountainous Province Schools        8.81     3.21   12.02        27    18
Subtotal                              21.77      7.99   29.76        27    44
Imrove Management
Network Rationalization            0.89      1.22    2.11        58     3
Education Information System       0.13      2.15    2.28        94     3
Monitoring and Assessment          0.14      0.28    0.42        67     1
Implementation Capacity            0.41      1.61    2.02        80     3
Subtotal                               1.57      5.27    6.84        77    10
Total Baseline Costs                  41.13    26.55   67.68         39 
Physical Con*ingencies                 4.11      2.66    6.77        39    10
Price Contingencies                     3.56     2.18    5.74        38      8
Total Prolect Costs *48.80   ,1.39  80.19                            A9 
Note: Totals may not add due to rounding.
n.    c      S......... .......................... ......
*Includes US$2.19 million of taxes levied in Viet Nam on local purchases.



- 25 -
Table 4.2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURE
-   M USS Million          0       t
Local Foreign Total Foreign Base
Investment Costs
Civil works                       16.85      7.22   24.07        30    36
Furniture                          4.67      0.52    5.19        10     8
Equipment                          2.94      5.15    8.09        64    12
Textbook Printing & Shipping       14.38     9.59   23.97        40    35
Overseas Training                   0.05     0.98    1.03        95     2
In-country Training                1.24      0.31    1.56        20     2
Specialists (International)        0.21      1.91    2.12        90     3
Specialists (Local)                0.42      0.05    0.47        10     1
Studies                            0.36      0.83    1.19        70     2
Total Baseline Costs                   41.13    26.55       67.68    u2   100
Physical Contingencies                 4.11      2.66    6.77        39    10
Price Contingencies                   43.56      2.18    5.74        38      8
Total Pro1ect Costs *                 48.80    30fL3    118
Note: Totals may not add due to rounding.
*   Includes US$2.19 million of taxes levied in Viet Nam on local
purchases.
4.2         Unit Costs (Annex 16).  Unit costs for civil works are based on
construction of primary schools in Viet Nam during 1992. The average unit
cost for repairing an existing classroom has been estimated at US$1,588,
US$1,091 and ITS$1,053 equivalent in the five cities, the Mekong Delta, and the
mountainous provinces, respectively. The unit cost for building a new
classroom has been estimated at: US$3,175 in the five cities for 40-student
classrooms; US$2,182 in the Mekong Delta for 32-student classrooms; and
US$2,105 in the mountain areas for 30-student classrooms. Average unit costs
for providing latrines and water cisterns have been estimated at US$100 and
US$1,000 equivalent, respectively. An amount equivalent to US$500 per
classroom has been provided for furniture for each classroom repaired or
replaced under the project.
4.3       Estimated costs of teaching aids, equipment, and vehicles are based
on contracts for similar purchases made recently by the MOET. The standard
package of teaching aids to be provided to every primary school has been
estimated at US$300 equivalent; the budget for inputs to be provided to every
primary teacher training school has been established at US$3,000. Costs for
internationally-recruited technical specialists include the cost of salaries,
allowances, and airfares. Many are expected to be recruited from nearby
countries. Fellowships abroad for short-term study trips are estimated at



- 26 -
US$6,000 each for 1-2 month visit to developed countries, and at US$540 per
week for visits to neighboring countries; in-country seminars and workshops
are estimated at US$42 per person-week. Textbook production costs have been
based on current Vietnamese prices in the first year, and increased by about
17% each successive year to cover the anticipated price increases resulting
from the free market reforms. Textbook overhead and distribution costs have
been estimated at 42.8% of production costs (see Annex 3 for further details).
4.4       The foreign exchange comRonent has been estimated as follows:
civil works, 30%; furniture for primary schools, 10%; equipment, 64%; textbook
printing and shipping, 40%; overseas fellowships and study tours, 95%; in-
country training, workshops, and seminars, 20%; international specialists'
services, 90%; local specialists' services, 10%; and studies, 70%.
4.5       Contingency allowances have been estimated as follows:  physical
contingencies have been estimated at 10% of the base cost for all categories;
price contingencies have been calculated on the basis of an average annual
international price increase of 2.8% over the project implementation period.
Local rates of inflation are difficult to estimate, but since the rate of
exchange is adjusted frequently, international rates of inflation have been
applied to both foreign and local costs denominated in US dollars. Aggregate
physical contingencies represent 10% of total baseline costs; aggregate price
contingencies (in US$) represent about 9% of total baseline costs and physical
contingencies.
4.6       Recurrent Cost Implications.  As the projact Is oriented toward
rehabilitating the present system--rather than significantly expanding it--the
recurrent cost burden of project inputs should not be a major problem for
either the Government or the individual communities. Generally speaking, the
improvements to the quality of primary education are expected to lead to
increased internal efficiency and decreased pupil unit costs; the improvements
to the administration of primary education are expected to have a similar
impact.
4.7       Recurrent costs associated with the construction component should
be minimal. Most civil works would be the repair or replacement of existing
classrooms, which should be cheaper to maintain than the existing highly
dilapidated classrooms. Particularly in the Mekong Delta, where temporary
structures are the rule, it would be less expensive to maintain a permanent
structure than to rebuild a temporary facility every two to three years. The
recurrent cost implications on the human resource side are similarly small.
Where classrooms are rebuilt or replaced, or where new classrooms are built to
relieve triple-shifting, no new teachers would be hired, since the stock of
teachers is sufficient. New teachers would be hired only where entirely new
classrooms are to be built, and most of these would be teachers starting at
the bottom end of the salary scale. Furthermore, among the responsibilities-
of the individual School Committees (para. 5.7) would be: (a) estimating
probable recurrent costs resulting from project-supported activities
(including salaries of any new teachers required), (b) proposing methods for
financing additional recurrent costs generated, and (c) securing commitment
from the local People's Committee and the Parents' Association to provide the
additional funds required.



- 27 -
4.8       Progressive reduction of subsidies plus the quality improvements
envisaged would initially result in increased textbook production and
recurrent costs. However, the increase would be more a matter of unit costs
than net recurrent cost outlay. The inflow efficiency would be better as more
efficient cost recovery (including distribution and overhead costs) is
contemplated for the textbooks sold or rented. The outflow volume and values
would be lower for several reasons. EPH would have the benefit of the
substantial seed capital resulting from retention of revenues earned through
sale and r ntal of IDA-financed textbook production. Production quantities
would be lower than under the old system (due to reduction in the nuiber of
curricula and titles ivad the improved physical quality and lifespan of the
books themselves). The change in the distribution policy whereby, the
textbooks rented out or lent would return to circulation for a period of about
3 years, would warrant a smaller annual print run.   Furthermore, if textbook
quality is good, a secondary market of used textbooks originally sold at full
price could easily result, especially in the urban centers, which would reduce
necessary print runs even further. Finally, over the long term, as free
market systems take root in the economy generally, the production and
distribution costs may well come down.
B. Financing Plan
4.9       The Government's contribution of 10% of the project costs (net of
taxes) would include financing from the national, provincial, district, and
commune levels, as well as from primary school Parents' Associations. It is
important to recognize the sense of financial responsibility already ingrained
in the local communities and to build upon it under the project. The
Government supports the notion that a local contribution would be required at
every construction site. Therefore, it is expected that approximately 10% of
the financing plan for civil works at each school would be a locally-based
contribution (from, inter alia, the Parents' Association or local People's
Committees). 1
4.10      The project financing plan is given in Table 4.3.  The IDA Credit
of SDR 49.6 million (US$70.0 million equivalent) represents about 90% of the
total project costs net of taxes.
IF        It was suggested originally that this contribution be 10% of the
cost of the works at each site. The current scheme requires a local
contribution at each site, but allows the amount of this contribution to vary
from school to school, depending on how much each community is able to
contribute. Education authorities at the district and provincial levels
(drawing on their annual allocations from their respective People's
Committees) would "top up" the local contribution, as necessary to reach 10%
of the total cost at any one site.



- 28 -
Table 4.3:  FINANCING PLAN
Local    Foreign     ig£^1
- US$ million -
Government A/                           6.9          1.1       8.0
IDA                                   39.7          3.        7,Q
TOTAL k/                                                      78.0
a/    Includes expected contribution of US$2.7 million equivalent from
Parents' Associations and Local Governments.
k/    Excludes estimated local taxes of US$2.19 million equivalent.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Proiect Management
5.1       The structure, functions, and staffing of project management have
been discussed with the Borrower and are detailed in Annex 18 and Chart 2:
Project Coordination Unit.' These arrangements were designed to reflect:
(a) the Government's unfamiliarity with IDA-financed projects; (b) the
decentralized nature of education management in Viet Nam; (c) the importance
of the school or classroom as the unit of account; (d) the importance of
parental/community participation in the financing and implementation of
various project activities; and (e) the importance of establishing ex auto
lines of authority/responsibility for general administration (procurement,
financing, reporting), construction, training, textbook production, ethnic
minority education, and project monitoring and evaluation.
5.2       The project management structure reflects and to a great extent
replicates extant primary education management structures. Functions,
responsible parties, and reporting mechanisms have been developed at each
level (national, provincial, district, and school). At the national level, a
National Project Director, assisted by a National Project Manage. assigned to
the project full-time, would coordinate the implementation of all project-
related activities. The National Project Director would receive advice and
assistance from a newly-formed Consultative Council, comprising
representatives of agencies outside the MOET such as the State Planning
Committee (SPC), the Ministry of Finance (MOF), and the State Bank of Viet
Nam. He/she would be assisted by a National Project Management Committee
composed of directors of all NOET departments participating in the project.
I'        Implementation arrangements for the Ethnic Minorities Component are
discussed separately in Annex 6 and Chart 3.



- 29 -
5.3       The full-time National Project Manager would be responsible for
day-to-day oversight of all aspects of project implementation. He/she would
be supported by seven Assistant Project Managers and three Deputy Assistant
Project Managers responsible for implementing various aspects of the project.
An internationally-recruited Assistant Project Manager for Administration and
Finance would oversee (inter ali) project accounting and auditing, reporting
requirements, procurement, and withdrawal applications. The National Project
Manager and the Assistant Project Managers would together constitute a Project
Coordination Unit (PCU). Although the PCU would initially coordinate the
implementation of only the IDA-assisted project, the MOET's Intention is that
this unit would eventually be responsible for overseeing implementation of all
foreign-assisted education projects.
5.4       Project activities at the provincial level would be coordinated by
a Provincial Project Coordinator attached to the Education Service who would
be relieved of other responsibilities for the duration of the project and be
assisted by a Provincial Management Committee. Duties would include: (a)
undertaking ex post review of School Committee plans; (b) ensuring delivery of
nationally-procured equipment to districts and Primary Teacher Training
School(s): (c) supervising (through the Provincial Education Service's
Construction Unit) construction activities in the province; (d) ensuring
timely provision of funds from provincial budgets for the project; (e)
ensuring the flow of funds from the national to the district level; and (f)
following agreed criteria, selecting staff from the Provincial Education
Service to participate in project-sponsored training.
5.5       Project activities at the district level would be coordinated by a
District Project Coordinator attached to the Education Service who would be
relieved of other responsibilities and be assisted oy a District Management
Committee. Duties would include: (a) supervising civil works in the district
(if any); (b) reviewing/approving School Committee plans; (c) ensuring
delivery of equipment to the district's primary schools; (d) ensuring timely
provision of funds from district budgets for the project; (e) ensuring flow of
funds from the provincial to the school level; and (f) following agreed
criteria, selecting staff from the district's Education Service and primary
schools to participate in project-sponsored training. The District Project
Coordinator would be assisted by a District Management Committee composed of
school principals involved in project implementation and other appropriate
officials of the district, including a representative of the District
Financial Service.
5.6       At the school level, each school would have a site manager, which
would be either the principal or head teacher. This individual would
represent the school during project implementation in order to: (a) minimize
the impact of construction on the learning environment; (b) receive, inspect,
and accept shipments of books, materials, and furniture on behalf of the
school; (c) schedule staff training (especially in multi-grade or bi-lingual
teaching techniques); (d) interact with provincial, district, and local
authorities to maximize impact of inputs on education activities; and (e)
collect school-level data for use by Assistant Project Manager for Monitoring
and Evaluation.



30
5.7       Principals would be assisted (as is presently the case) by a School
Committee chaired by the principal and including representatives of the
Parents' Association and the local People's Committee (commune People's
Committee, in rural areas; the neighborhood People's Committee, in urban
areas). Where sufficiently large population clusters exist without a school,
local initiative would form an appropriately-constituted New School Committee.
Each School Committee (whether existing or New) would prepare a plan for the
repair, rehabilitation, or construction to be undertaken under the project
which would include designs, estimated costs, a proposed implementation
schedule, and assurances regarding recurrent cost financing. Plans for
schools in ethnic minority areas (and mountainous areas with sufficient
population and no school) would be prepared by the existing or New School
Committees with the help of district education authorities and would include
the following additional elements: (a) number of primary-age children in the
catchment area by gender and ethnic affiliation; (b) proposals for multi-grade
teaching and resulting number of new classrooms needed (if any); and (c)
proposals for mother-tongue literacy and for teaching Vietnamese as the
national language.
5.8       During project preparation, IDA and UNICEF worked closely with
RDICS staff to develop cost-effective designs for schools and latrines, and
these designs would become the basis for the new construction. Technical
assistance would be obtained to further refine designs in light of local
conditions. In the case of Phase Three civil works (in mountainous areas),
these plans must also reflect the phasing of additional pedagogic inputs which
would precede construction (para 3.27). All such plans would be submitted to
the respective District Management Committee for review and approval; in
particular, the District Management Committee would ensure that the proposed
designs conformed to national norms. Following approval, copies of the plans
would be submitted to the respective Provincial Management Committee and the
Project Coordination Unit (either the head office in Hanoi or the branch
office in Ho Chi Minh City) for ex Dost review and eventual review by IDA
supervision missions.
5.9       During Negotiations, the Borrower gave assurances that it would:
(a) maintain the Project Coordination Unit in the MOET with functions, powers,
responsibilities, and funding satisfactory to the Association, staffed by
competent staff in adequate numbers; and (b) ensure that at all times during
project implementation, each project province shall maintain a Provincial
Project Coordinator and a Provincial Project Management Committee, and each
project district shall maintain a District Project Coordinator and a District
Project Management Committee, all with functions, powers, and responsibilities
acceptable to the Association.
B. Flow of Funds. Accounting. and Auditing
5.10      Flow of Funds.  In October of each year, the MOET would request the
MOF to include in the expenditures budget for the forthcoming year the full
amount of funds necessary to cover national contributions to project
implementation expenditures. The MOF would also include in its revenue budget
the amount expected to be drawn down from the IDA Credit during that year.
After January 1, the MOET would be authorized to start making expenditures



- 31 -
according to the approved budget allocations, drawing on its account ln'x the
State Bank of Vietnam in Hanoi. Funds needed for expenditures at the lower
levels which are to be financed by the national government would be
periodically transferred to the accounts of the respective Provincial
Education Services in the banks in those provinces, using the normal budgetary
transfer procedures. Funds needed for expenditures at the school level would
be periodically transferred, first, to the accounts of the respective District
Education Services in local banks in those district, and then to the accounts
of the respective primary schools in the same banks, also using the normal
budgetary transfer procedures.
5.11      In order to facilitate the flow of funds to each construction site,
each School Committee would open a project account at a local bank in the
district capital.  The Parents' Association and the local People's Cormittee
would be required to make a deposit into this account (normally equivalent to
10% of the total estimated financing plan). Some contribution would be
required, no matter how small. The-Provincial Peoples Committee would deposit
an additional amount in each account to bring the total deposit in each case
to 20% of the estimated financing plan. A letter to the Assistant Manager or
Deputy Assistant Manager for Construction certifying that the 20% has been
deposited would be required to obtain authorization to sign a contract with a
local rontractor and initiate construction. Thus, construction would begin
w.ch 20% of the total estimated budget available for use.
5.12       When funds equivalent to 10% of the estimated costs had been drawn
down, school committees would present supporting documentation to obtain
reimbursement of amounts eligible for financing. The Project Coordination
Unit would reimburse the percentage of the amount eligible for financing from
a Special Account, then request reimbursement from IDA, following normal
reimbursement procedures. This process would continue until the full amount
of the IDA contribution had been disbursed to each school in question. Except
in the poorest areas, where parents could not afford the full counterpart
contribution, the 10% initially advanced by the Provincial People's Committee
would be returned to them by the time the civil works are completed.
5.13     Accounting and Auditing.  Appropriate accounts for the project
would be kept. Standard formats have been developed and are presented in
Annex 19. All project related expenditures should be fully documented and
aggregated quarterly.1' A system will be developed whereby copies of
supporting documentation will be consolidated at the project office in Hanoi.
This will facilitate auditing. At the national level, accounts would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. During
Negotiation, assurances were received that: (a) project accounts would be
audited on a yearly basis by auditors acceptable to IDA; and (b) certified
audit reports would be furnished to IDA no later than nine months after the
close of the fiscal year.
it/       It is recommended that copies of documentation be retained with
District Project Coordinators.



- 32 -
C. Proeure*nt
5.14      The procurement of goods and works will be carried out in
accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits," May 1992 (the Guidelines). In the procurement of goods through ICB,
goods manufactured in the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam may be granted a
margin of preference of 158 (or the applicable import duties, whichever is
less) for purposes of bid comparison. In the procurement of goods and
services through ICB, the standard bidding documents issued by IDA will be
used. In such cases where these do not exist, bidding documents based on
other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with IDA shall be used.
Local procurement procedures have not been adequately standardized or
codified, and IDA proposes to assist the Government in doing so. For the
purposes of this project, however, local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
acceptable to IDA were discussed during the technical discussions (see Annex
20) and agreed during Negotiations.
5.15      Civil Works (total estimated cost:  US$28.1 million equivalent,
including taxes and contingencies). Civil works envisaged under the project
would be small, simple structures dispersed throughout Viet Nam, typically
costing under US$200,000, and would not be attractive to foreign bidders. In
urban areas, civil works would be procured under LCB procedures acceptable to
IDA (Annex 20), except for contracts estimated to cost US$50,000 up to an
aggregate of US$0.7 million equivalent, which may be procured under prudent
shopping procedures acceptable to IDA.J' In rural areas, civil works would
be procured on the basis of prudent shopping practices acceptable to IDA.
.'his procedure would provide sufficient competition and is appropriate because
of the scattered nature of the sites and the small amounts involved at any one
site. Where prudent shopping procedures are being employed, School Committees
would undertake procurement of civil works. A copy of the bid evaluation and
the contract would be sent to the Assistant Manager for Construction in Hanoi
or to the Deputy Assistant Manager for Construction in Ho Chi Minh City for
review and would be retained for random sampling review by IDA supervision
missions. In procurement involving LCB, the Assistant and Deputy Assistant
Managers for Construction would be responsible for establishing bid evaluation
and award committees for the North and South, respectively, (comprising inter
Al", other members of the PCU, Provincial Project Coordinators, and local
RDICS staff) and thereby administering the procurement of civil works
contracts (Annex 18). Appropriate aggregate figures for LCB and prudent
shopping would be US$3.0 million and US$25.1 million equivalent, respectively.
5.16      School Furniture (total estimated cost:  US$6.1 million equivalent,
including taxes and contingencies). School furniture would be simple and is
manufactured locally at points of use. The type of furniture and the overall
e         All references herein to "prudent shopping procedures acceptable to
IDA" should be taken to mean: (a) the solicitation of price quotations from
at least three qualified and eligible local contractors or suppliers,
excluding any who are meubers of the selecting committee referenced, and (b)
the awarding the contract to the lowest-priced qualified contractor or
supplier.



- 33 -.
scale of procurement make it unlikely that foreign bidders would be interested
in bidding. In urban areas, school furniture would be procured in bulk by the
District Management Committee, on the basis of LCB procedures acceptable to
IDA (Annex 20), except for contracts estimated to cost US$25,000 or less, up
to an aggregate of US$0.1 million equivalent, which may be procured under
prudent shopping procedures acceptable to IDA. In rural areas, school
furniture would be procured through prudent shopping. Where prudent shopping
procedures are being employed, furniture would be purchased by each School
Committee. In procurement involving LCB, the District Management Committee
would be responsible for establishing bid evaluation and award committees and
overseeing procurement (Annex 18). Appropriate aggregate figures for LCB and
shopping would be US$0.5 and US$5.5 million equivalent, respectively.
5.17      Teaching Aids. Equipment. ad Vehicles (total estimated cost:
US$9.5 million equivalent, including taxes and contingencies). Primary school
teaching aids valued at US$5.6 million equivalent and miscellaneous items
valued at US$2.5 million equivalent (including office equipment, computers,
and vehicles) would be procured in bulk by the Project Coordination Unit (the
Assistant Project Manager for Administration and Finance) on the basis of ICB
in accordance with the Guidelines (Annex 18). Equipment and teaching aids for
primary teacher training schools estimated to cost US$100,000 or less, up to
an r,gregate of US$1.4 million equivalent, would be purchased by each primary
tea.-her training school through prudent shopping procedures acceptable to IDA.
5.18      Textbook Printing and Shipging (total estimated cost:  US$29.1
million equivalent, including taxes and contingencies). EPH would have the
responsibility for awarding contracts for new textbook development as well as
textbook printing and shipping.N Printing contracts (valued at US$26.2
million equivalent) would be awarded by EPH on the basis of ICB procedures in
accordance with the Guidelines. Shipping contracts (valued at US$1.4 million
equivalent) and printing tryouts for textbooks (up to US$50,000 per contract
and not exceeding US$1.5 million in aggregate) would be awarded by EPH on the
basis of prudent shopping procedures acceptable to IDA.
5.19      Overseas and In-Countrv Training (total estimated cost:  US$3.0
million equivalent, including taxes and contingencies). Overseas training
(US$1.5 million equivalent) would consist of study tours and placement of
candidates in short-term courses. Overseas study tours would be planned by
the Project Coordination Unit (the Assistant Project Manager for Human
Resources and Training) on the basis of the relevance and usefulness of the
proposed visit to the work of the candidates proposed, costs, and willingness
of host country institutions to receive groups of education authorities from
Viet Nam. The placing of candidates in specific institutions would be made on
the basis of the relevance and quality of the programs offered, costs, and
prior experience. In-country training (US$1.5 million equivalent) would be
organized by the MOET.
v         Textbook development, overheads, and distribution (typically via
district or provincial warehouses owned by EPH) is estimated to cost US$12.40
million equivalent for the project period.



- 34 -
5.20      Consultant Services (US$4.5 million equivalent, including taxes and
contingencies). This would include the services of local and international
specialists (valued at US$3.1 million equivalent) as well as the preparation
of studies (valued at US$1.4 million equivalent). Consultants would be
selected and employed by the Project Coordination Unit in accordance with the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers."
5.21      Prior review by IDA would be required for:  (a) all contracts for
teaching aids/equipment/vehicles valued above US$200,000 equivalent (covering
about 85% of the value); (b) all textbook printing contracts valued above
US$200,000 equivalent (covering 100% of the value); (c) all civil works,
shipping, and furniture contracts valued above US$200,000 equivalent; and (d)
all technical assistance and studies contracts. In addition, notwithstanding
the contract amount threshold, bidding documents for the first procurement of
civil works or goods would be subject to prior review by IDA. IDA has
reviewed and approved the list of teaching aids and equipment for primary
schools and the list of equipment and vehicles for the MOET, the Provincial
Education Services, selected District Education Services, and the Project
Coordination Unit. The individual equipment lists for the primary teacher
training schools would be reviewed and approved by the respective Provincial
Education Service and by the MOET's Department of Teacher Training; the lists
would be retained for ex Rost review by IDA supervision missions. Since the
civil works envisaged consist mainly of rehabilitation and repair of existing
classrooms and/or replacement of a few existing dilapidated classrooms, it is
believed there would not be any contracts valued above US$200,000 equivalent
for civil works or furniture, but these would be subject to post-award review
of a random sample covering no less than 10% of all contracts awarded through
LCB and shopping.



- 35 -
5.22      Procurement arrangements the project are sjmmArized in Table 5.1.
T-blJ  5.1:  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
US$ millions
Procurement Method
Category of Expenditure                          ICB      LCB    Other*   Totals
Civil Works.
Classrooms for urban schools                    -       3.0       0.7       3.7
(2.5)    (0.6)    (3.2)
Classrooms for rural schools                    -       -        24.4     24.4
(20.9)   (20.9)
School Furniture:
For urban schools                               -       0.5       0.1      0.7
(0.5)    (0.1)    (0.6)
For rural schools                               -                 5.4       5.4
(4.9)    (4.9)
Miscellaneous Goods:
Teaching Aids for                               5.6     -         -         5.6
primary schools                              (5.0)    -         -        (5.0)
Teaching Aids for
primary teacher                               -       -         0.4      0.4
training schools                                             (0.3)    (0.3)
Miscellaneous Items
(Computers, Vehicles,                        2.5      -         1.0      3.5
and Office Equipment)                       (2.2)             (0.9)    (3.1)
Textbooks:
Printing                                       26.2     -         1.5     27.7
(22.1)             (1.3)   (23.4)
Shipping                                                -         1.4      1.4
(1 .1)    (1.1)
Consultant Services and Training:
Training                                                          3.0       3.0
- _     (3.0)    (3.0)
Specialists                                     -       -         3.1      3.1
(3.1)    (3.1)
Studies                                         -       -         1.4      1.4
(1.4)    tl.4)
TOTALS                                         34.2     3.5      42.4     80.2
(29.3)   (3.0)   (37.6)   (70.0)
Mote: Figures in earrt s are ,repctitre  funats firmtnced by IDA. Totals may not add due to rouning.
Includes about US$z.1 miLon equiva ant n    ttaxes.
*    SOther" includes grudent shopping for civil works, school fumitare teaching afds and eaulpmmnt for
tar trainins chools, prihtlng tryouts for textbooks1 and shippng contracts or textbooks, and
techn cat ass stance engaged in accordance with Vorld Bank guidethnes.



- 36 -
D. Disbursements and ImpleRmntation
5.23            Disbursement Percencages.  The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 49.6
million (US$70.0 million equivalent) would finance about 90% of the total
estimated project cost net of taxes. Disbursement percentages for various
categories of expenditure are presented in Table 5.2.
5.24            A Special Account in U.S. dollars would be established and
maintained to facilitate implementation. An initial deposit of US$5.0 million
would be deposited in a bank in Hanoi acceptable to IDA. This bank should
have a branch in Ho Chi Mlnh City to facilitate the transfer of funds.
Applications for replenishment would be submitted on a monthly basis, or when
the amounts withdrawn were equal to 30% of the initial deposit, whichever
occurred first. The minimum application size for payments directly from the
credit account or for issuance of special commitments would be US$0.5 million
equivalent.
5.25            Reguired Documentation.  Withdrawal applications for civil
works, furniture, equipment, teaching aids, vehicles, textbook printing, and
textbook shipping with a contract value of US$200,000 or more would be
supported by full documentation, as would all contracts for consultants'
services, studies, and overseas training. Disbursements under contracts for
civil works, school furniture, equipment, teaching aids, vehicles, textbook
printing, and textbook shipping with a value below US$200,000 as well as
disbursements against any expenditures for in-country training would be made
on the basis of SOEs, for which supporting documents would be retained in the
Project Coordination Unit in Hanoi and made available to IDA for review during
the course of normal project supervision. The Assistant Project Manager for
Administration and Finance would be responsible for aggregating the eligible
expenditures under each heading and for preparing withdrawal applications for
submission to IDA.
5.26        Disbursement Profile.  (Annex 21) There is no disbursement profile
for Viet Nam. Although the possibility of scheduling project implementation
over five years was discussed, a more conservative approach of a seven-year
implementation-cum-disbursement period was agreed upon, since Viet Nam is for
all practical purposes a new Borrower. The fact that some counterpart funds
would be provided at the local level (by Parents' Associations and local
governments) reinforces this conservative approach. Finally, the proposed
profile closely follows that established for other Bank-financed education
projects in the East Asia Region.



- 37 -
Table 5.A: DISBURSEMENTS
IDA Allocation    % Expenditure
(US$ millions)    to be Financed
from IDA Credit
Civil Works                                       21.9        90%
Furniture                                          5.0        90%
Goods (other than furniture)                       7.7        100% of foreign
expenditures; 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex factor
cost); and 85% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
Textbook Printing and Shipping                    22.3        100% of foreign
expenditures; 75%
of local
expenditures
Consultants' Services, Studies, and Training       6.7        100%
Unallocated                                        6.4         NA
Total                                            z7
5.27      Implementation Schedule.  (Annex 22) Project implementation is
estimated at seven years, with a completion date of December 31, 2001, and
Credit Closing Date six months later (i.e. June 30, 2002). Construction and
furnishing of primary classrooms is scheduled to be implemented in three
phases, beginning with the major city schools during the third quarter of
FY94. Most technical assistance inputs (i.e., for ethnic minority education,
textbook production, and various education management activities) will be
provided during the first fire years of implementation. Major changes
affecting EPH and its practices also will be introduced during the first five
years.
E. Monitoring. Reporting. and Supervision Requirements
5.28      Monitoring and Assessment.  The project would reinforce periodic
monitoring of project targets as well as support a sample-based educational
assessment exercise. A matrix for monitoring and evaluating project



- 38 -
implementation and impact was developed during preparation and discussed
extensively with the Government. This matrix presents project activities
according to sub-objective, agency responsible for implementation and key
monitoring indicators (Annex 23). While key indicators would monitor progress
toward achieving quantitative and qualitative targets of the project, sample-
based assessments would provide useful information about educational outcomes,
especially in ethnic-minority areas (see Annex 14 and para. 3.32).
5.29      SuPervision. (Annex 24)  The project would be supervised by IDA
according to an agreed plan. IDA would supervise the project tri-annually
during the first two years of implementation and bi-annually thereafter
(barring unforeseen implementation problems). Particular attention would be
paid to supervision of textbook activities. From the second year of the
project onwards, EPH would be using competitive bidding procedures to procure
inputs, and printing and shipping services. By the end of the project, the
system would have changed radically, with EPH not only out of debt but having
the working capital to sustain the production system after project completion.
IDA will need to closely monitor this difficult but necessary transition, and
will do so through: (a) providing technical oversight (textbook production
specialists and financial analysts) during the course of supervision and (b)
mandating an annual review of the EPH's Annual Business Plan as part of the
Annual Work Program exercise (see paras. 3.3, 5.30).
5.30      Annual. Mid-term. and Final Reviews. (Annex 25)  Implementation
progress would be monitored on the basis of work plans formulated annually and
reports submitted quarterly by responsible entities. During Negotiations,
assurances were received that the Government would: (a) by October 1 of every
year, commencing on October 1, 1994, prepare and furnish to IDA an Annual Work
Program for the following calendar year; (b) by December 1 every year,
commencing on December 1, 1994 review that program with IDA; and (c)
thereafter, taking into account the Association's comments, implement the
program in a manner satisfactory to the Association. For the review taking
place in 1997, the Borrower gave assurances that it would undertake with the
Association a Mid-Term Review of project progress and prospects, commencing on
October 1, 1997, and furnish to the Association a comprehensive report of the
activities undertaken under the project by December 1, 1997. The Annual
Review would discuss progress of project implementation over the preceding
twelve months, propose the work plan for the next twelve months, and monitor
progress in resolving teacher remuneration issues.   UNICEF and World Vision
representatives would be invited to discuss the Annual Work Program each year
prior to its finalization.
5.31      Under the general direction of the National Project Manager, the
Assistant Project Manager for Monitoring and Evaluation would coordinate the
preparation of the Annual Work Program and organize the annual reviews.
He/she would be responsible for &11 evaluation-related activities under the
project, including: (a) monitoring key project indicators; (b) collecting
information on project achievements; (c) consolidating information received
from the Provincial Management Committees and from other Assistant Project
Managers; (d) summarizing information quarterly for presentation to the



- 39 -
National Project Management Committee, IDA, UNICEF, and World Vision; and (e)
organizing the sample-based assessment exercise (paras. 3.32 and 5.28)
5.32      For the project monitoring and evaluation system to work well,
cooperation would be needed at all levels, down to the school level. The
Assistant Project Manager for Monitoring and Evaluation should prepare a plan
which would include the proposed arrangements for: (a) standardized data
collection according to key monitoring indicators; (b) computerizing project
statistics; and (c) undertaking statistical analyses. This plan should be
incorporated into the Annual Work Program and reviewed with IDA.
F. Status of Proiect Preparation
5.33      During project preparation, MOET produced standard classroom
designs which could be modified to correspond to local conditions and
available resources. Similarly, local education authorities supplied IDA with
very detailed information on construction needs in the five largest cities,
the Mekong Delta provinces, and the eight mountainous provinces to be included
in the project. Such proposals were reviewed by the appraisal mission and
subsequent missions.
5.34      Since, to the extent possible, civil works in the mountainous
provinces would follow the pedagogical aspects, it is important that these
activities also begin early. UNICEF is presently engaged in training teachers
for multi-grade teaching and would continue to do so under its existing five-
year work program. The IDA-financed project would expand this program to
additional schools in the eight provinces in which UNICEF is already active.
One specialist in ethnic minority languages financed by World Vision began
working with the Research Center for Ethnic Minority Education in early 1993.
5.35      Other components are in a state of readiness.  The standard list of
basic teaching aids and equipment for primary schools has been prepared by the
MOET's General Company for Educational Equipment and was reviewed and approved
by IDA. The preparation of individualized lists of inputs by each primary
teacher training school is underway. The list of equipment to improve the
administration of the primary education system has also been prepared,
reviewed, and approved by IDA. A fellowship and training program for
education administrators has been prepared and reviewed. Where major changes
to present practices are proposed (namely, to the EPH textbook production
system), appropriate assurances have been sought and conditionalities
established. The present system of producing textbooks would not begin to
undergo major changes until the second year of the project. Finally, most
Project Managers have been identified, including the probable National Project
Manager.
5.36      In addition the Government has given assurances with regard to the
following:
(a) the contents, scope, timing, and responsibilities for
preparing Annual Work Programs and EPH Business Plans (paras.
3.3 and 5.30 and Annexes 3 and 25);



- 40 -
(b) the proposed work program for the first year of the project;
(c) outlines and timetables for a phased school mapping program
(paras. 3.21-3.22 and Annex 8);
(d) the timetable for establishing and staffing the Project
Coordination Unit (5.1-5.9 and Annex 18);
(e) mechanisms for forming New School Committees, undertaking
school planning at proposed construction sites, and mobilizing
local financing in a timely manner (paras. 5.11-5.12);
(f) codification of LCB procedures for IDA-financed procurement
(paras. 5.14-5.18 and Annex 20).
VI.  SUSTAINABILITY. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, AND GENDER ISSUES
6.1       Proiect Sustainability.  Project benefits are regarded as
sustainable for several reasons. First, the society and the Government place
a high priority on education, both intrinsically and as a "value added"
dimension to the productive factor of labTior (paras. 2.8, 2.41-2.43). Within
the education sector, the highest prior-ty is accorded to primary education
and to literacy. Both public and priv be (household) budgets reflect the
importance attached to education, as evidenced by the high enrollment levels,
the increasing budget allocations, and the community support in filling the
Government's funding gaps at the primary level (paras. 2.12, 2.43). Second,
except for the textbook and ethnic minorities components, the project is not
introducing major alterations to the policies or practices governing primary
education. In cases where changes are being proposed, affected beneficiaries,
agencies, and the Government have been involved and a high degree of consensus
has been achieved.
6.2       Third, all of the quality improvements included in the project are
intended to reduce repetition and dropout in Viet Nam's primary education
system, increasing internal efficiency and lowering the cost of producing a
primary-school graduate. The training of primary education administrators
supported by the project has no immediate salary implications. It is expected
to enable administrators to rationalize primary education and manage the
system better and thus enhance efficiency (para. 3.30). The textbook
component has been designed to make it both more equitable and efficient,
enabling EPH to sustain its operations while allowing a greater number of
children access to textbooks (paras. 3.3-3.11, 4.8).
6.3       Finally, the recurrent costs generated by project-financed inputs
(particularly the civil works component) should not be much greater than they
are today; in fact, in the case of some schools, they may be lower, since the
buildings would be of a more permanent nature and would require less
maintenance. Among other things, School Committees would be responsible for
estimating probable recurrent costs resulting from project-supported
activities (including salaries of any new teachers required), proposing



- 41 -
methods for financing additional recurrent costs generated, and securing
commitment from the local People's Committee and the Parents' Association to
provide the additional funds required (para. 4.7). The package of teaching
aids received by any one school is estimated to cost the equivalent of US$300;
as items are lost or broken or wear out over a period of years, it is
considered well within the capability of local Parents' Associations to
replace them.
6.4       Environmental lmpact. The impact of the proposed project on the
environment would be limited. Construction is small scale and limited mainly
to the repair or rehabilitation of existing classrooms. The fact that all
schools under the project would receive suitable latrines and training in
their maintenance is expected to have a positive impact in both the
environmental and public health areas. New textbooks to be provided under the
project would include environmental concepts, as appropriate, and the fact
that the textbooks themselves would be recycled would encourage awareness of
such issues. The EPH's Editorial Board would review new textbooks to ensure
that ecological and environmental issues are covered.
6.5       Gender Issues.  As noted earlier, Vietnamese society values
education for girls as highly as for boys, and the statistics available
indicate that the ratio of girls to boys in primary education (91 to 100) and
secondary education (90 to 100) was the highest among a group of comparator
countries of similarly low income per capita. To the extent that a gender gap
exists in certain areas, exacerbated by poverty or isolation of the population
cohort, the project would likely impact girls to a greater extent than boys,
given that: (a) it will provide sanitary facilities at school sites
(frequently noted as a facility beneficial to keeping girls in school); and
(b) it will ensure that a full set of textbooks reaches all primary aged
children. Furthermore, new textbooks to be provided under the project would
be expected to be free of gender bias and would be reviewed by the EPH's
Editorial Board during the course of project implementation to ensure that
they were.
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.1       The project should provide gains in efficiency and equity for both
the education system and the society at large. All education inputs are aimed
at reducing wastage (repetition, dropout) and improving throughput. If
children can move through primary education in less time than they are
currently taking, unit costs would go down. Better facilities and access to a
full set of textbooks and classroom learning aids is a crucial step toward a
better--and therefore more efficient--educational environment.  To the extent
that the school environment is improved, children should learn more.
7.2       Viet Nam has made great progress toward universal primary education
but has reached the point where further progress would become increasingly
difficult, as the Government attempts to attract and retain in school the
harder-to-reach and harder-to-teach groups of children (e.g., ethnic



- 42 -
minorities; children living in isolated or flood-prone areas; very poor
children in urban areas). This difficulty would be exacerbated by a
constantly growing school-age population and, at least in the madium term, by
Viet Nam's transition to a tarket economy. The project would make available
the resources and strategies for reaching and keeping in school these hard-to-
reach groups during this difficult period and would address systemic
distortions in the provision of primary education, thus reaching the poorer
segments of the population. Specific project activities with a poverty-
reduction focus include: (a) a more equitable textbook system (based on a
standard curriculum, provision of ethnic language minority materials as
appropriate, and a more equitable approach to distribution); (b) support for
more culturally-sensitive pedagogies and mother-tongue literacy, which should
help to level the educational playing field for ethnic minority children; and
(c) targeting of schools in the most dilapidated condition (and therefore,
likely to be in the poorest areas) for rehabilitation. The direct result of
these inputs would be higher attendance in primary school, better educational
performance, and a higher attainment rate among the most vulnerable groups.
7.3       Other specific project benefits would include:  (a) a streamlined
curriculum (as reflected in the new textbooks); (b) a more cost-effective and
financially sustainable system for producing and printing textbooks, deriving
in part from the introduction of competitive bidding procedures; (c) an
improved system for judging classroom needs, prioritizing resource allocation,
and empowering district education authorities (through introduction of the
school mapping approach); (d) stronger, more durable, and ultimately less
costly classrooms in the Mekong delta (through introduction of improved
construction techniques for building typhoon- and flood-resistant schools);
(e) improvements to health conditions at primary schools (through provision of
latrines and drinking water); and (f) stronger education management (through
improved measures for monitoting education programs, gathering and analyzing
educational statistics, and conducting national education assessments).
B. Risks
7.4       Primary risks stem from:  (a) the transitional economy and
Government agencies' unfamiliarity with multilateral financing practices and
procedures; (b) assumptions about the direction and pace of change to EPH
operations; (c) the impact of declining teacher remuneration levels on the
quality of education delivered; (d) the timeliness and sufficiency of the
counterpart funding, in particular the local (school or district level)
contribution; (e) the capacity of the MOET to implement the project, optimize
education management inputs, and institute new evaluation and assessment
procedures; and (f) the ability of local (school and district) education
authorities to adopt different processes (i.e. formalize local financial
contributions, institutionalize school mapping procedures, and develop school
plans as a basis for construction investments). Each of these risks is
discussed below, with reference to the specific project input or corresponding
conditionality designed to address it.
7.5       Transitional Economy and New Borrower Status.  Viet Nam is in
transition from a command to a market-based economy. Moreover, for all
practical purposes, Viet Nam and the World Bank Group have yet to forge an



- 43 -
operational relationship around financing for a specific project. It is
likely that there will be macro-economic changes and a period of adjustment as
the two entities become familiar with the other's way of working. Although
the Government is firmly committed to the direction of changs as its policies
amply demonstrate, implementation of the project may be adversely affected by
the rest of society's need to adjust to the new signals. For example, the
local banking system is still in transition and has yet to establish
mechanisms to facilitate flows of funds from central to local levels. The
lack of experience with market mechanisms and competitive bidding procedures
could complicate implementation, as could the lack of familiarity with Bank
Group procedures and requirements (regarding disbursements, financial
reporting, auditing, and project monitoring and evaluation).
7.6       The project has taken these risks into consideration as follows:
(a) development of user-friendly local accounting formats in collaboration
with local authorities (para. 5.13 and Annex 19); (b) elaboration of Local
Competitive Bidding practices for IDA-financed project items (paras. 5.14-5.18
and Annex 20); and (c) preparation of Annual Work Programs for the project
acceptable to IDA (para. 5.30-5.32 and Annex 25). In addition, IDA has
proposed intensive supervision during the first two years of the project
(para. 5.29 and Annex 24).
7.7       Changes to EPH Production and Business Practices.  As noted, EPH
will need to introduce drastic revisions in the way it operates, an inherently
risky proposition for any organization. The Government has indicated its
support for these changes. Key policy changes will be: (a) phased reduction
to input subsidies; (b) conversion to a system which fosters textbook
recycling; (c) institution of competitive bidding practices; and (d)
production of a single set of textbooks conforming to the 165 week curriculum
(para. 3.6 and Annex 3). In addition, EPH would be required to develop Annual
Business Plans which would be reviewed with IDA in the context of the Annual
Work Program (para. 3.3). Finally--as adequate recycling mechanisms will be a
crucial factor in the successful implementation of the new scheme--EPH will
host a national workshop and develop acceptable textbook recycling mechanisms
(para 3.7).
7.8       Teacher Remuneration.  There is a risk that the educational impact
of inputs provided under the project would be blunted by a decreasingly
motivated teaching force stemming from declining salaries. This issue is
being handled through: (a) the Annual Work Program which obligates the
Government to review primary teacher remuneration issues and discuss them with
IDA (para. 5.30); and (b) a project-financed study of primary teacher
recruitment and remuneration issues (para. 3.33). In the meantime, the
project would support crucial inputs to primary teaching and teacher training
schools (paras. 3.12-3.16 and Annexes 4 and 5).
7.9       Adeguacv of Counterpart Funding and Local Contribution.  IDA is
financing 90% of total project costs net of taxes. The Government and local
communities would finance the remaining 10%. The bulk of Government
counterpart financing is for the textbook component, primarily attendant upon
operating and distribution costs of EPH, which it already subsidizes. Thus,
no significant additional outlay on the part of Government will be required to



- 44 -
implement the project. The local contribution would be exclusively for
counterpart funding of school construction, but in communities too poor to
meet the requisite 10% share of local financing, District and Provincial
Education Services would have already provided the required amount as
described in paragraphs 5.11-5.12.
7.10      MOET Managorial Capacity.  As noted, MOET departments have been
actively involved in all aspects of project preparation; some heads of these
departments have been provisionally identified as Assistant Project Managers
for various components. The detailed structure, functions, and staffing of
project management down to the school level have been discussed and agreed
with the MOET (para 5.1-5.7 and Annex 18), and IDA received additional
assurance from the Government during negotiations (para. 5.9). A Matrix for
Monitoring and Evaluating Project Implementation was also developed in concert
with the MOET authorities, and responsibilities for monitoring and evaluation
in the project are well defined (Annex 23). The project would provide
significant inputs in study tours, fellowships, and local training
opportunities at all levels of the administration (para. 3.30 and Annex 12).
The EMIS system proposed would require software preparation as a pre-condition
for hardware purchase, and substantial technical assistance has also been
provided to this component (para. 3.31, 3.34 and Annex 13).
7.11      New Presses for-Planninf and Eecuting School Imrovements.  In
fact, the civil works component incorporates and depends upon Viet Nam's
existing tradition of local initiative in building schools for which there is
ample evidence of precedent (para. 2.10-2.12). The project would cement and
formalize this commitment, however, through active participation of School
Committees and the development of school plans (para. 5.7) and the
establishment of school-based construction accounts and deposits (paras. 5.11-
5.12). The institutionalization of school mapping procedures (paras. 3.21-
3.23) would solidify a rational basis for making investment decisions and
establishing priorities among them.
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIMOS
8.1       During Negotiations. the Government gave assurance that:
(a) the Project Coordination Unit in MOET would be maintained with
functions and responsibilities acceptable to IDA and competent
staff in adequate numbers; and at all times during project
implementation, each Project Province shall appoint a Provincial
Project Coordinator a Provincial Project Management Committee, and
each Project District shall appoint Management Committee (para.
5.9);
(b) by October 1 in each year, commencing on October 1, 1994, the
following would be prepared and furnished to IDA: (i) an Annual
Work Program for project activities in the following calendar year
and; (ii) an Annual Business Plan for EPH of scope acceptable to
IDA; the Government would review such program and plan with IDA



- 45 -
prior to December 1 each year, and commencing on December 1, 1994,
thereafter implement them In a manmer satisfactory to IDA (para.
5.30);
(c) by December 1, 1997, a Mid-Term Review of project progress and
prospects would be undertaken in place of the Annual Review for
that year (para. 5.30);
(d) by December 31, 2000, the MOET shall have implemented a phased
program of school mapping covering all of Viet Nam acceptable to
IDA (para. 3.22);
(e) all training under the project would be carried out in accordance
with a program acceptable to IDA (para. 3.30)
(f) all studies under the project would be carried out in accordance
with the terms of reference and timing acceptable to IDA (para.
3.33); and
(g) by September 1, 1994 EPH shall prepare and furnish to IDA a plan
for textbook discribution and thereafter, implement as plan
satisfactory to IDA (para.3.7).
8.2       Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed
project would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 49.6
million (US$70.0 million equivalent) to the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, on
standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years.



*46-
ANNEXES
CHARTS
MAPS



SOCIAUST REPUBUC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC STATISTICS ON PRIMARY EDUCATION
(at the beginning of the school year In September)
Year                                    %Chage
PALO
1980      1986      1988       1989      1990      1991       1992   198
ToW PopulAon (000o)                        53,700    58,868    63,263    64,800    65,728     67,108    68,503        22
Enrolment in Prmarv School
Poat-i Aged 61 fOs)                         7,680     7,679     7,825      8,239     8,584     8,854      9,053       1.4
Ptary School Enrolment W000)               7,951      8,55      8,635      8,583     8,862     9,106      9,455       1.5
Enmet  Aged 6-10 (000s)                    6,703      6,536     6,792     6,902      7,176     7,402      7,669       1.1
Over-ag ad Under-age Pupils (0006)          1,248     1,719     1,843      1,681     1,686     1,704      1,786
GrssEnrollentRalo (%)                        104       109        110       104        103       103       104
Net Enrollment Raio (%)                       87        86         87        84        84         84        84
Enrollments In Grade 1
Popuaton 6 YeamsOld 000s)                  1,544      1,547     1,615      1,852     1,915     1,883        n.a       1.8*
Enrollment In Grade I C000s)                 na.      2,330     Z463      Z476       2,582     2,519       na.
Grade1 EnrdmetAged6 C0Os)                   1,416     1,432     1,48        n.a.       naL       nAL        naL
Over-age or Under-age Pupils
in Grade1 (000s)                           n.a       898        977       n.a        n.a       nAL        ta
GmssEnrollmentPiRato%)                       n.a       151        153       134       135        134        n.a.
Not Enroliment Ratio                          92        93        92        na.        n.a.      na.      nFL
1980.91                                                                                                                   e
lb
OQ
0



SOCIAUST REPUBUC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC STATISTICS ON PRIMARY EDUCATION
(at the beginning of the school year In September)
Year                                    %Chuwge
pA.,
1980      1985       1988      1989       1990      1991       1992   19609*
ClBassesmd  _Classr s *
Numbte   Clase cCX))                         209        236       261        251       263        289       280        24
NumbeodCasrooms C000)                        142        167        184       183        190       191        199       2.9
CaassesperClassroom                          1.47       1.41      1.36      1.37       1.38       1.41      1.41 
PileperOas                                    38         35        34         34        34         34        34                   X
Pupils per Clasroom                           56         49        47         47        47         48        48
Teaches
Number d  Teachem CoOOs)                     204        229       254        251       252        263       264        22
Pupils per Teacher                            39         36        34         34        35         36        36
oM"ior ndPromon
Compin Rate 3X)                               60         60        58        n.a.       n.e       na         n.a
PromotiontoSeowndaty(%)                       92         93        91        n.a        n.e.      n.         n.
Marry Vf _amm schools offer both puta and lower-sewnday educaton in fe same premses, and class-
rooms at those schools are used for dass  at both leves. For that mason, two of the ratos cacuated
In Vis   _    sper dassroom, pupils per clasorromdo not gie an accurate picture of the tru
WU" n hprnay eduRon.
lb 
r.
t.t



SOCIAUST REPUBUC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC STATISTICS ON PRIMARY EDUCATION
(at the beginning of the school year in September)
Financino of Pdmary Education                                               Dong                US$
(1990 Budoet Fioresk,) "lRon)                                                                (milion)
Total Recurent Budget                                                        296                   49
-of wtch:
Personnel:                                                                  129                  21
Mateils:                                                                     43                    7
Other:                                                                      124                   21
Personnel as percent of Tol                                                  43%
Matals as pert of Total                                                      15%
Number o Pupils In Prmary Education (1990)                              8,862000
Number of Teacrs In Primary Educaion (1990)                               25Z000
Dong               US$**
Total Recrrent ExpendIur per PuplWYear                                    33,446                    6
Recurrent Expendiue on Materials per Pupil/Year                            4,875                    1
Recurent Epeu on Peronnel per Teacher/Year                                511,508                  85
** Aavrae ratefor 1990: US$1.00 = 6,000dong.
21



-50-                        2
Page 1 of 6
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PIMARY" EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATION FINANCE
1.          Structure and ComRosition.   Viet Nam's education budget contains
four fiscal transactions by levels of government: the central (trung ugna) and
three levels of local government (dia phbung): provincial, district and
commune. Within this structure, each level of government has its own
independent budget, revenues, and expenditures. Flows within these four
levels are handled through a system of grants. The MOF collects financial
data on expenditures by category from the national, provincial, and district
governments, but not from the commune governments. The budget thus assembled
is called the "consolidated budget." Since the communes do not report their
budgets to the central ministries, a comprehensive database which aggregates
all four levels into a single account of sectoral expenditure is lacking.
2.          Domestic sources of financing historically account for about 80
percent of total expenditure on education and training. The balance is
accounted for by external grants. Within domestic sources, financing of
education is borne principally by provincial governments, followed by the
central government and parental contributions. Government allocations are
raised chiefly through non-tax revenues (i.e. operating surplus, transfers
from state enterprises, and a small proportion of tax revenues from
agricultural and municipality taxes). Provinces receive significant budgetary
support from the central government only for special programs (i.e.
immunization or literacy campaigns). Districts receive most of their support
from transfers from provincial budgets, although they do have their own
revenue sources as well. Since the communes are expected to be basically
self-sufficient, they receive few direct transfers from the consolidated
budget.
3.          Although about four-fifths of the institutions of higher education
are financed from the central budget, the financing of most formal education
at the primary and secondary level remains the responsibility of the
provinces. In the largest cities, Hanoi, Haiphong, and Ho Chi Minh City,
(which have the status of provinces) responsibility is further decentralized
to individual districts within the cities. The provinces (or districts) are
responsible for paying all teachers' salaries. As noted, communes
(neighborhoods in urban areas, villages in rural areas) contribute to
education by providing funds for (a) school construction, maintenance, and
repair, (b) salary supplements for teachers, and (c) purchase of teaching
materials.
4.          The proportion of local to government spending in education varies
considerably across provinces as well as within them. It has been estimated
that public expenditures account for about 70t of the total, and the remainder
is raised through student fees, parents' contributions, and, in some cases, by
revenues from productive activities undertaken by the school or by a parent-



-51-
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
teacher association.Y Revenues from student fees, parents' contributions,
and productive activities are normally used for supplies, equipment, mainte-
nance, and teaching materials, and also for salary supplements. Thus,
although education is publicly-sponsored substantial financial support comes
from individuals, households and communities.
5.          Trends.  The main characteristics underlying recent trends in
public expenditure in the education sector have been:
(a) slow growth in total expenditures in real terms;
(b) the large role of recurrent "autonomous' (salary and repair
and maintenance) expenditures in the budget; and
(c) low levels of investment.
6.          In the twelve-year period 1976-1987, an average of 6-8% of the
consolidated budget was spent on education and training. This peroentage was
low: several other countries similar to Viet Nam in terms of income per
capita (Bangladesh, Malawi, Nepal, Tanzania, Burkina Faso, Zambia, Uganda,
Togo) spend considerably more. Even so, this conclusion should be treated
with caution. Cross-country comparisons of education expenditures are
problematic because most countries have several financing sources but few
aggregate and reflect them all adequately. In some countries, for example,
the national or central government finances most education and training. In
other countries--particularly those with federal structures (e.g., China,
India, Nigeria, Brazil, the United States)--most education and training is
financed by lower levels of government. The role of private contributions
also varies enormously. Thus few countries have reliable data on expenditures
from all sources. (Chart 1 highlights the structure and composition of public
expenditure in education from 1984-1990.)
7.          Shrinking investments resulted in an increasing shortage of
classrooms. This, in turn, necessitated multiple shifts in most primary and
lower secondary schools. Supplies of textbooks, furniture and other teaching
materials also became so insufficient that many students had to share
textbooks and teachers had to share teaching materials. Triple shifting
became common, even in relatively high income areas, such as Ho Chi Minh,
Hanoi, and Haiphong.
8.          The social cost of economic reforms (j i) have been
considerable. Although the Government historically placed a great deal of
emphasis on primary education, the difficult fiscal situation placed
increasing responsibility on parents and communities. In recent years, most
new school construction at the primary level has been financed by Parents'
Associations, often with contributions from the neighborhood or People's
Committee. Such contributions also have been used for maintenance of
equipment and teaching materials when necessary.
1           The Parent-Teacher Association of the National Studies General
High School in Hui, for example, produced wooden furniture which was exported
to the Soviet Union.



-52-
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
9.          In primary education, annual recurrent cost was 34,345 dong per
student (or only US$ 6.80 per student per year at 1990 prices). This was
about 4.2 percent of GNP per capita, compared to higher averages elsewhere in
Asia. This was attributable mainly to low teacher salaries and relatively
high student/teacher ratios.
10.         Teachers' base salaries, whlch were uniform nationwide, remained
low throughout the period. During 1990 and 1991, real salaries for teachers
declined, although there was some recovery in 1992 and 1993. Nevertheless, it
has been noted that real salaries of teachers in Viet Nam are one-half or less
of comparable levels in other low-income Asian countries.
11.         By way of illustration, at the top of the salary scale for
primary teachers, a well-qualified veteran with 30 years experience earned
63,000 dong (US$ 12.50) per month in 1990. This compared unfavorably to the
average wage in the state enterprise sector of 95,000 dong (US$ 19.0) per
month in 1990. In 1991, the salary of a beginning primary-school teacher was
25,000 dong per month (about US$6.40); an experienced secondary-school teacher
or director of a secondary school could receive 65,000 dong per month (about
US$16.70). University professors were also poorly paid: a beginning
professor earning a base salary of 30,000 dong (US$7.70) per month, plus a
supplement of 25,000 dong (US$6.40) per month; an experienced senior professor
earning a base salary of 60,000 dong (US$15.40) pet month, plus a supplement
of 15,000 dong (US$3.80) per month.
12.         Some teachers had additional sources of income other than their
salaries. Schools which could afford it paid teachers supplements of 1,000 to
7,000 dong per month (US$0.25-1.80) in the early 1990s. Teachers with some
knowledge of subject matter for which there was a private demand (like
English) also supplemented their salaries by teaching privately in the
evening. In fact, some doubled their incomes through private teaching. Even
so, the earnings were meager and there was concerns that qualified teachers
would be leaving the profession to seek occupations which paid better.
13.         A second reason for the low unit costs was the relatively high
pupil/teacher ratio. In 1989, pupIl/teacher ratios were 27/1 in primary, 17/1
in secondary, and 8/1 in higher education. The corresponding figures for Asia
were: 33/1, 24/1 and 14/1, respectively, suggesting that there may be room for
efficiency gains, particularly at secondary and higher levels. At the primary
level, larger pupil/tea4her ratios than the current figure of 27 in Viet Nam
exist in some countries, but with some adverse effects on cohort survival
rates. In the coming years, as the primary school-age population increases,
the pupil/teacher ratio is expected to increase unless mitigated by greater
accessibility through more classrooms and multiple shifting where feasible.
The latter is possible particularly in less densely populated areas.
14.         Government Policies.  Until recently, the government's policy was
to try to provide free public education at all levels to all children and
young people. Schools were created throughout the country, financed by the
government, teachers were paid with government resources, and textbooks were
supplied free for all pupils and students (at least in theory: the
discrepancy between demand and supply probably led to some role for money in
the allocation of the supply). Limited government resources have made it
difficult to maintain and operate the education system effectively. The



-53-
ANNEX- 2
Page 4 of 6
result has been a decline in enrollment ratios and a serious deterioration in
the quality of education at all levels.
15.         In view of the lack of sufficient resources to provide free public
education of good quality at all levels, the Council of Ministers recently
promulgated a series of measures designed to establish clearer priorities and
mobilize new resources for the sector, particularly from parents and students
themselves:
(a)     With technical assistance from UNICEF, the government
began experimenting with the privatization of
kindergarten; new kindergartens would be created as long
as parents were willing to pay the costs of operating
them. If the experiment is successful, cost-covering fees
will be introduced in kindergarten classes throughout the
country.
(b)     Instead of trying to achieve universal coverage at all
levels, the government has decided to concentrate its
scarce resources on primary and lower-secondary education.
Enrollments at higher levels of education will be limited
through the use of entrance examinations.
(c)     In September 1989, the government introduced a nationwide
system of limited student fees, from those students who
can afford to pay, to help cover costs. Under this
system, (i) Grades One through Three were still entirely
free, (ii) pupils (or their parents) in Grades Four and
Five paid the equivalent in money of one kilogram of rice
per month (in September 1989, about 500 dong), (iii)
students in lower-secondary school (Grades Six through
Nine) paid the equivalent in money of two kilograms of
rice per month (in September 1989, about 1,000 dong), and
(iv) students in upper-secondary school (Grades Ten
through Twelve) paid the equivalent in money of three
kilograms of rice per month (in September 1989, about
1,500 dong). Pupils and students who could provide a
certification from their village or neighborhood People's
Committee that their families were too poor to pay the
fees are not required to pay. The fees are collected at
the school level and may be used by the school's director
to pay for maintenance and upkeep, to purchase school
supplies and equipment, or to pay limited supplements to
teachers' salaries.
(d)     Also in September 1989, the government introduced the sale
of textbooks (rather than free provision) to students who
could afford to buy them.   Pupils and students who
provide a certification from their village or neighborhood
People's Committee that their families are too poor to buy
the textbooks may borrow copies from their school library.
Prices range from 600 dong (US$0.15) for a first-grade
reading textbook to 1,500 dong (about US$0.40) for a
twelfth-grade physics textbook.



-54-             ~~~~ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
(e)     Private schools, although not encouraged, have been
tolerated, but enroll a very limited number of students.w
Students in 'private" schools pay a part of their
education, but not all; some operating costs were still
paid by the government.
it          About 2% of enrollments at a8l levels in Ho Chi Ninh City, for
example.



-55-                     ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
Chart 1: Trends in Public Expenditure on Education
(Constant 1982 Prices)
Table 1: Viet Nam: Composition & Structure of Education Expenditure
As a .g GDP         0.6      0.7     0.9      0.7     1.0      1.0     1.1
Primary            0.3       0.3     0.6      0.4     0.6     0.7      0.7
Secondary          0.1       0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1     0.1      0.2
Higher              0.1      0.1     0.2      0.1     0.1     0.1      0.1
As % of
Public Expenditure 4.3       4.5     5.6      5.1     6.0     5.6      6.5
Primary            2.2       2.4     3.2      2.9     3.5     3.8      3.2
Secondary          1.0       1.3     0.6      0.6     0.7     0.4      1.0
Higher              0.8      0.5     0.8      0.7     0.7      1.0     1.0
Real Per Capita
Expenditure
*1982 don.g)        3.2       4.6     4.0     3.1      4.7     6.3      10.0
Per Capita
Expenditure
(Nominal donge    163.6    157.5   138.8   427.0  2466.0  5893.5  12996.0



-56-                            ANNEX 3
Page I of 19
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TEXTBOOKS COMPONENT
BACKGROUND
1.   As an aid to helping children learn, textbooks are the second most
important factor after the teacher. They contribute enormously to the
transmission of knowledge and to the formation of pupils' personalities.
Evidence from throughout Viet Nam indicates that a lack of the needed textbooks
is the single most important factor contributing to pupil repetition and dropout.
An estimated 40% of Vietnamese primary school pupils do not have any textbooks,
and many of the remaining 60% do not have all the books they need.
2.    Until 1989, the Government attempted to supply a complete set of textbooks
to all primary school children, free of charge. This could never be accomplished
due to financial constraints. In 1989, the Government implemented a policy of
selling textbooks to primary school pupils, albeit at highly subsidized prices.
The pupils who could not afford to buy textbooks were supposed to be able to rent
them for the school year at a lower cost than the purchase price. Those who
could not afford even to rent were supposed to be able to borrow them from the
school library for the school year, at no charge.
3.    In fact, this system never worked.  The schools in poor areas (particularly
rural) did not have the funds required to acquire the books to be distributed on
rental or free-lending basis. So, the pupils who could not afford to buy the
complete set of textbooks ended up with no or incomplete sets of textbooks, and
became prime candidates to repeat or drop out.
4.   The high number of separate textbook titles for each grade is another
aggravating aspect of the textbooks problem. For example, there are ten text
books for Grade 1, while most countries have just two, viz., language and
arithmetic, with basic concepts of social and natural sciences included in the
language book. The present textbooks also contain more material than can be
adequately covered in a school year. Although a complete set of textbooks is
produced for the standard primary school curriculum, there are not full ranges of
textbooks for minority language and multi-grade teaching.
5.    Another cause for the problem is existence of three different curricula for
primary education: (1) Standard curriculum of 165 weeks for a five-year primary
education course; (2) Abridged curriculum of 120 weeks for use in the ethnic
minority areasd; and, (3) Further abridged curriculum of 100 weeks for use in
the accelerated primary-school-equivalency courses for older youth and adults who
were unable to attend or complete primary school when they were children. The
Government tries to produce separate sets of textbooks for every grade, and for
each of the three curriculum.
L1    The rationale is that ethnic-minority children face a number of
difficulties in primary education and therefore need a simplified curriculum if
they are to make it through the primary cycle.



-57-                            ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 19
6.    Textbooks are produced and distributed by the Education Publishing House
(EPH) under the MOET. Its main office is in Hanoi and a large affiliate office is
in Ho Chi Minh City. The EPH is faced with a number of problems. Some of these
relate to publishing: arbitrary selection of authors (rather than competitions
to discover the best authors); no systematic training for authors; poor editing
services; low quality manuscript designs; need for improvement in graphic design
(illustrations) and page layout. Other problems relate to printing: printing is
done by arbitrarily assigning printing jobs to existing printing firms, rather
than through competitive bidding; printing services are not always of good
quality, yet because of the arbitrary and centralized manner in which printing
jobs are assigned, the EPH has little recourse; the EPH buys paper itself, rather
than leaving the job to the printers, and most of the paper is bought from a
government paper mill at an arbitrary price, rather than through competitive
bidding which might result in better quality paper at a lower price. Still other
problems relate to distribution: packing is often inadequate to protect from
damage during transportation, handling, and storage; distribution is not
scheduled evenly; warehouses at the provincial level often do not even have racks
to keep the books away from the dirt and damp.
7.    The textbooks are of poor vhysical quality and insufficient durability.
The paper (mostly of domestic production) is flimsy and tears easily. The paper
is of adequate quality for one-color work, but has excessive show/print-through
in two-color books. The light-weight textbook covers do not resist wear and tear
well. The low quality glue and thread used in binding allows the books to come
apart easily. The EPH has never been greatly concerned about the poor physical
quality of textbooks; since pupils are expected to buy textbooks annually, their
useful life is judged to be only one year, and as such, they do not need to be
more durable.
8.    The sale prices of the textbooks do not reflect real manufacturing costs
and are at least 75% less than they would be in a free market with no subsidies.
The sale price is low partly because of a deliberate government policy to
subsidize the price of textbooks and keep them affordable to a larger number of
children, and partly because the EPH itself can obtain a number of its inputs at
subsidized prices (e.g., paper; rent-free facilities; controlled printing prices;
managerial staff paid by the MOET).
9.    Presently, the EPH is a Government subsidized institution.  It also
recovers part of its costs through textbook sales. The EPH is faced with
constant and acute cashflow problems. It is chronically indebted to its bankers,
having to borrow money to produce textbooks, and repay only in part and mostly in
installments, depending upon the trickle of textbooks sale proceeds from schools
throughout the country. The production calendar depends on the pace of cost
recovery and on the availability of funds, rather than on optimal use throughout
the year of production capacity. The financial constraints dictate that EPH
plans production and distribution based on funiding availability and sales
potential, rather than the need to make a complete set of textbooks available to
the pupils in a timely fashion.
10. As an initial step, a system must be put into place which ensures that all
primary school pupils receive the full set of textbooks they need. It is not
enough, however, for children simply to have access to a certain number of text-
books. The textbooks need to be adapted to the children's capacity to learn and
to the reality of their everyday life. In addition, the textbooks must provide
children with the knowledge they need to be able to live in the modern world,



-58-                              ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 19
e.g., environmental concepts, health and nutrition, and technological concepts.
Textbooks should be free of sex bias and racial bias and discriminatory language
anid images.
11.   Viet Nam has alread: made an enormous effort in making textbooks available
to primary school pupils: some 60% of primary school pupils in Viet Nam have
access to textbooks which are adapted to the current curriculum and which show
major improvements in quality over textbooks used some years ago. Efforts are
needed, however, to improve the capacity of the textbook publishing and
distribution system in order to ensure that all pupils have access to the
required texts; and to sustain this achievement in the coming years, as the
school-age population grows, as more poor and minority children are brought into
and complete school, and as subsidies of inputs are reduced or eventually removed
(as part of the economic reforms currently being implemented by the Government).
Improvements are needed in the following areas: selection of authors; editorial
services; book illustration; book design and page layout; pilot testing of
materials; contracting of high-quality printers and suppliers of materials;
warehouse management; efficient and timely distribution of textbooks; and the
training of teachers in the use of new books. All these improvements should be
achieved at a cost level which will enable the Government of Viet Nam to sustain
textbook provision after completion of the project.
OBJECTIVES
12.   This project component would have three main objectives:
a.   To reduce repetition and dropout and improve learning by providing
all primary school pupils in Viet Nam with the full range of
textbooks they need for the complete primary cycle;
b.    To improve textbook quality in both content and form, at the most
economic cost, by improving:
i.    the quality of manuscript preparation and design,
ii.   paper and printing materials,
iii. the qualifications and skills of EPH staff,
iv.   the EPH's technical equipment, and
v.    the management of textbook publication and distribution; and
c.    To move, through the policy changes and financial interventions of
the project, from a highly subsidized system which is constantly in
debt to a system which will be self-sustaining and increasingly self-
financing.
TE$TBOOK AND RELATED MATERIALS PRODUCTION
13.  Number of Curricula:  Considering the cost implications, logistic hurdles
and most importantly, the fundamentals of actual needs, the present practice of
producing separate set of textbooks for the 165 week and 120 week curricula would
be discontinued. Instead, only one set of textbooks to match the 165 week
standard curriculum would be produced. This means that teachers and pupils of
the other two curricula will have additional material in the new cextbooks.
Teacher training courses, particularly those for the multi-grade classes and



-59-
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 19
ethnic minorities, will include advice to teachers on how to adapt and make the
best use of the new textbooks.
14.  Number of Titles:  A total number of 21 titles would be produced as new
standard textbooks for the five primary school grades. The distribution would be
4,3,4,5 and 5 between Grade 1-5, respectively. Corresponding Teachers' Guides to
be produced would be 20, the distribution between Grades 1-5 being 3,3,4,5 and 5,
respectively. A total of 9 Pupils' workbooks would be produced for Grade 1-4,
the distribution being 3 for Grade 1, and 2 each for Grades 2-4. For the ethnic
minorities, 8 textbooks and 8 corresponding Teachers' Guides would be produced.
The exact number of titles for each minority would be decided with appropriate
consultations .
15. Standard Te;tbook Development: The preparation of new titles is well
advanced and the EPH is confident of being ready to publish a total of 7 titles
in the second year of the project. The EPH would allocate funds out of the
overhead portion included in the revenue from textbook sales and rentals to
develop and evaluate the new titles. The above allocated funds would be used,
Inter alia, for the following purposes in the process of new titles development
and evaluation:
a.   Provide the opportunity and means to the potential authors and
textbook production staff to visit mountainous and other rural
schools and to discuss the pupils' textbook needs with the
principals, teachers, pupils and educational officials;
b.    Organize competitions and pay fees (or other compensation) to several
different authors to prepare and complete manuscripts for each title,
so that the best among them can be selected for eventual publication.
Authors whose manuscripts are not selected for publication would
receive reasonable compensation (say, half the fee paid to successful
author of the corresponding competition);
c.    Elicit feed-back evaluation information from the teachers, education
specialists, pupils and principals on the proposed and published
titles;
d.    Purchase a wide range of primary school textbooks from several
countries, so that the potential authors can learn from and adapt (if
appropriate, and without infringing on copyrights) such materials;
and,
e.    Translate reputed and useful international textbooks (particularly
those for natural sciences) for use as reference materials, without
infringing on copyrights.
16. Ethnic Textbooks Develonment: Arrangements for ethnic minority language
textbook development would be similar to those for standard textbooks. This
project would concentrate on producing materials in the following eight minority
languages: Thai, Nuong, Nung, Hmong, Jarai, Bahnar, Cham and Sedang. Manuscript
ft   Jthnic minority language textbooks will supplment the standard textbooks.
The lnitial quantity of.8 titles is based on one for each of the ethnic minority
languages. The number of titles may increase as the ethnic minority textbook
content is elaborated and developed.



-60-
ANNM 3
Page 5 of 19
development and preparation of page film for the printer will be assisted by
UNICEF, with help from project supported technical assistance. The revenue
generated through the sale and rental of standard textbooks and workbooks would
be used to improve the contents of the ethnic minority language textbooks and, if
necessary, to increase the number of titles and print quantities.
17.   Phaging of New Titles Prtnting:  Logistically, it is not possible to
undertake the production of all the new titles In one go at the commencement of
the project, or for that matter even during the years following the project
effectiveness. Manuscripts have to be developed and tested. Teacher training
has to be imparted. EPH printing infrastructure and technology need upgrading.
Policy changes have to be addressed. The experiences gained have to be
evaluated. However, it is possible to commence the production of ethnic
textbooks and teachers' guides (as these are small in number, and the preparatory
work has covered much ground already), and the pupils' workbooks for Grades 1-4
(as the product content is simple). The EPH hopes to be in a position to produce
the new textbooks and teachers' guides for Grades 1 and 2 in the second year of
the project implementation. Those for Grades 3 and 4 would be produced in the
third year of the project. Those for Grade 5 would be produced in the fifth year
of the project.
18.   Print Ouantities:  The EPH determines the print quantities on an informed
guess basis. The results are as below:
Grade        Enrollment             Print Run (as percen-    Books Printed
(in millions)           tage of enrollment)      (in milllons)
1              2.4                       100%                   2.400
2              1.8                        50%                   0.900
3              1.6                        40%                   0.640
4              1.5                        35%                   0.875
5              1.3                        30%                   0.390
19.  The print run percentage assumes that there is a reverse correlation
between age and wastage. While this may be true, there is no denying that the
percentages are arbitrary and are not backed by reliable statistics. Given the
substantially higher enrollment in lower classes, higher rate of repetition, and
only marginal differences in production costs between grades, there is a strong
possibility that scarce resources are not being used optimally. In the context
of uncontested complaint about lack of the needed books in the country as a
whole, such a casual approach is ill-advised. The extent of textbook surplus or
shortage could be minimized by a more rational approach.
20.   The print quantities under the project for the new titles are given in
Appendix 1. For the standard textbooks, the print quantity will be 100% during
the 1st print year, 50% each for the 2nd and 3rd print year, and 40% during the
4th print year, all of the respective enrollment pupils' population, compounded
at 2% p.a. for annual growth over the 1992 population.Q The approach ls similar
for teachers' guides, except that the calculations are made on teachers'
population. The print quantity for the standard workbooks will be 100% of the
,a  Reprinting of old textbooks until the c mnencement of printing new titles
will be done exclusively out of Governmnt counterpart funds.



-61-
Page 6 of 19
pupils' population calculated as above, for project years 1-5. Ethnic textbooks
and teachers' guides will be printed for 100% of the respective enrolled
population compounded at a 2% annual growth rate, for project years 1-5. It may
be noted that the phased printing plan (para 17) envisages no IDA financed
printing under the project beyond project year 5. The proposed quantities are
considered reasonable on the assumption that the rental and free-lending books
will be in active use at least for the estimated 3 year life cycle of each book.
In fact, the potential for the books which have been sold for full price
returning to circulation at a reduced resale price cannot be ruled out.
21.   Ouality of Textbooks:  New titles will be produced under improved quality
specification. Two-color textbook titles (those for Grades 1 and 2) will be
printed on 80 g/zO wood-free paper. One-color textbook titles will be printed on
70 g/uP wood-free paper, and workbooks will be printed on 60 g/uP part-mechanical
paper. Textbooks will have four-color printed varnished covers of 200 gIn1
board. All textbooks will be thread-sewn, and all workbooks will be wire-
stitched. Specifications for the old titles will remain unaltered, but with a
better cover, viz. 60 glne text paper and 120-140 g/m' cover paper.
22.   Printing Costs:  The production costs at current Vietnamese prices bears no
comparison to international open market prices for corresponding production. The
average cost at Vietnamese prices works out to the equivalent of US$ 0.14,
whereas the corresponding cost at international prices is US$ 0.37 per title.
The disparity is understandable, as the former is vitiated by macro and micro
economic incongruities. However, at the current state of the economy, it would
be unrealistic to cost the production or charge the user at international prices.
The only viable course is to start with the current Vietnamese prices and
progressively lncrease them over the project life to take into account the
probable impact of the macro-economic reforms that the Vietnamese Government has
embarked upon, (including the progressLvely reduced subsidles to the EPH).
23.   For project preparation purposes, the base manufacturLng costs of
textbooks, teachers' guides and workbooks have been estimated uslng current
Vietnamese prices. However, the combination of policy changes (relating to
procurement methods and practices, subsidies enjoyed or suffered, and cost
recovery) is bound to push actual production costs up. Thus, the current
Vietnamese prices have been compounded by a factor of 17S p.a. (excluding
inflation at 2.8% p.a.), to estimate base prices of textbook production costs
during the successive years of the project. The cost of printing the old
toxtbooks has also been given similar treatment.
24.   Distribution and Overheads:  The Government's attempts to address the
textbook availability issue through a policy of sell, rent for a fee or lend
freely, has not worked to date, though there is nothing wrong with policy Itself.
Some of the major reasons for the continuing failure of the EPH to produce
complete sets of quality textbooks and distribute them in time to the pupils
under an affordable method and price are:
A.    The number of curricula and number of textbooks for each grade are
too many to be handled efficiently within the technical and financial
capabilities of the EPH;
b.    The EPH has no handle on the optimum size of print quantities
required to meet the demand;



-62-                            AM  3
Page 7 of 19
c.    The physical quality is so poor that the textbooks seldom lst beyond
one year; this ruled out the success of rental scheme;
d.    The EPH is permanently cash-strapped due to low government
allocations, poor and delayed revenue collections; thus, the sets for
different grades are mostly incomplete;
e.    Distribution mechanism (scheduling despatches, packaging,
warehousing, sales, rentals etc.) is inadequate.
25.   Thus, pupils frequently lack an essential learning input.  The worst
sufferers are those from poor families who cannot even afford to rent textbooks.
Adequate care has been taken in the project design to avoid, or at least reduce
the adverse impact of these impediments through: (a) reduction of curriculum to
one and reduction in the number of textbooks; (b) improvement of EPH's financial
position by IDA funding of textbook production and by allowing the EPH to retain
the revenue from sales and rentals to meet, inter alia, the distribution and
overhead costs; (c) improvement of the content and physical qualities of
textbooks; and (d) provision of new equipment, training and technical assistance.
26.   As part of the project intervention, IDA funds would be made available to
produce textbooks of improved quality in adequate numbers. Having assured the
production of improved textbooks, the next logical step is to ensure a rational
distribution system. Until a more innovative and cost-effective method is found,
EPH will continue to distribute the textbooks through its subsidiary companies.
Pupils will have the option of either buying the textbooks at full price or
renting for a fee. Those who cannot afford either option would be allowed to
borrow the textbooks free of charge. In the latter two cases, the students are
bound to return the textbooks in acceptably good condition, so that they can be
reused for a period of at least three years. Presenting an acceptable system for
this scheme together with a time table for its implementation will be a
precondition for disbursement of IDA funds for the production of standard
textbooks.
27.   A reasonable estimate of average distribution costs works out to 208 of the
cover price of the textbook. Overhead costs, which represent all costs relating
to the development and evaluation of new titles, are estimated at 10% of the
textbook cover price. Together, the distribution and overhead costs account for
30% of the cover price, which comprises the production, distribution and overhead
costs. In other words, distribution and overhead costs amount to about 42.8% of
the production costs.8
28.   IDA funds would be used fcr defraying the production costs.  When the
textbooks are sold or rented for a fee, the relevant production cost is recovered
as part of the textbook cover price. Such recovered funds would vest with the
EPH and would be used to meet any of the following costs in the order of
preferenceg:
a.   Textbook overhead costs (primarily for textbook development)
iJ These percentages are rough estimates based on inadequate, but best available
data. Actual costs will have to be ascertained and cover prices readjusted when
the project goes on stream.
2    None of the items listed is fLnanced by IDA.



-63-                         AM  3
Page 8 of 19
b.    Textbook distribution costs
c.    EPH debt reduction
d.    Old textbooks printing costs (until new titles are fully in stream)
e.    Additional cost of staff training and asset replacement
f.    Printing costs for increased quantities
29.   With progressive cost escalations, the cover price of textbooks will
correspondingly go up. This will cause sliding movement between the three
proposed methods of distribution. From year to year, some of the pupils buying
books at full price will slip to the borrow-at-a-fee category, and some from the
latter category to borrow-freely category. As a consequence the mass of pupils in
the middle category may be static. Reliable figures are not available of the
present distribution of pupils among the three categories. The financial
organizational state of EPP do not support the indicated composition between
these three categories at 500:35%:15%. Considering these facts, the initial
ratio of textbook distribution between the three different categories is
estimated at 35*:45%:20% and to move to about 20%:45%:35% by the fifth year of
the project. In the case of workbooks (where no rental is possible as the book
is not reusable), the sale at full price is counted at 50% initially, going down
to 35% by the 5th year of the project. As the cost of workbooks is only about
25% of the textbooks, and the numbers are small (between 2 and 3 books per
grade), the higher estimated percentages are reasonable.
30.   EPH's Financial Status: Reliable or complete information is not available
on the financial status of the EPH. Hence, it is not possible to present
projections of EPH's balance sheet, income and expenditure or cashflow. Given
this, IDA should intensively supervise the textbool component during the first
year of implementation. In particular, close supervision will be required to set
the financial, management, procurement and human resources sections of the EPH in
order.
31.   EEL-Cashflow Statement: However, based on the assumptions and estimates
outlined in the preceding paragraphs (summarized in Appendix 1), the EPH's
estimated cashflow statement for the transactions relating only to project
intervention is given in Appendix 2. It is prepared for a 7 year period, as the
rental income of the 5th year textbook production will continue to accrue during
the 6th and 7th years. The principal assumptions are:
a.    Production will be limited to one curriculum only;
b.    Number of titles will be reduced;
c.    The pupil and teacher population will grow by 2% p.a., with 1992 as
the base year;
d.    In the first year, production will be limited to ethnic textbooks,
ethnic teachers' guides, and standard workbooks (for grades 1-4);
These will be at 100% of requirements up to year 5;
e.    Production of standard textbooks and teachers' guides will be phased:
year 2 (grades 1 and 2), year 3 (grades 3 and 4)), and year 4 (grade
5); These will be at 100% of requirements in print yaar 1, 50% each
in print years 2 and 3 and 40% in print year 4;



-64-
Page 9 of 19
f.    There will be no IDA financed production of any books beyond project
year 5;
g.    IDA will not finance the production of any of the old books;
h.    IDA will not finance any part of distribution or overhead (textbook
development etc.) costs&;
i.    Initial production cost is based on the present Vietnamese prices.
Escalation is counted at 17% p.a. (in addition to the built in price
contingency at 2.8% p.a.) to accommodate the effect of policy changes
relating to subsidies, procurement methods, cost recovery etc.
j.    The cover price will comprise of the costs of production (70%),
distribution (20%), and overheads (10%);
k.    Cost recovery will apply only to standard textbooks and workbooks.a
Three methods of distributions (sell at full cover price, rent for a
fee, and lend freely) will be followed for standard textbooks. The
useful life of the book is estimated to be three years for the
purpose of rentals. The respective proportions start at 35%:45%:200
Initially and reach 200:45%:35% in project year 5. For workbooks,
the ratio will be 50%:0%:50% in the initial year reaching 35%:0%:65%
in project year 5. Rental method does not apply to workbooks.
1.   Cost recovery will comprise of full cover price, i.e. the total of
production, distribution and overhead costs. However, for the EPH's
cashflow projection purposes, only half of the overhead and
distribution costs applicable for the books sold at full price or
borrowed at a fee, is estimated to be recovered from the pupils.
32.   The cumulative not cash inflow over the 7 year period, relating only to the
transactions covered by the IDA funded project interventions, works out to about
US$ 9.84 million (refer Appendix 2). By the end of year 5, when the IDA
financing will cease, the cumulative cashflow works out to US$ 6.32 million only.
This amount works out to only about 53% of one year's total cost (production,
distribution and overheads) text book operations based on the figures for year 5
(US$ 12.03 million). Though these projections indicate a marked improvement over
the present precarious cashflow situation, it cannot be characterized by any
means as secure.
33.  The above workings do not take into account the following aspects, which
involve financial outlay (Appendix 3):
a.    Production and distribution costs of old textbooks during the first 3
years of the project, until the new textbooks go into full stream
(30% of enrollment for each year may be required; estimated cost,
Li    However, the revenues earned from sale and rental of textbooks, which will
vest with the MPH, may be used for these purposes. Textbook development will
have priority claim over such funds.
L1   Ethnic textbooks will be distributed free of charge.  Cout recovery does
not apply to standard and ethnlc teachers' guides.



-65-                             A    E 3
Page 10 of 19
based on present Vietnamese prices, compounded by 17% p.a., US$ 6.68
million);
b.    Textbooks required for the Teachers' Training School (estimated cost
US$ 975,700)
c.    Standard and ethnic textbooks development costs (estimated at US$
20,000 per title);
d.    Production and distribution cost of workbooks for Grade 5 for five
years, if required (estimated cost US$ 1.11 million);
34.   Further, the cashflow statement presumes that the cover price includes the
distribution and overhead costs, and that at least half of such costs will be
recovered as part of distribution under sale at full price or rent for a fee
categories. If the assumption does not materialize, the cumulative net inflow
figure will have to be reduced by US$ 4.35 million.
35.   Overall, while the project interventions can reasonably expect the
financial viability and self-sustainability of the EPH to improve from the
present precarious state of affairs, the need for speedy and substantial
improvement in the overall efficiency of the EPH cannot be over-emphasized. The
project design takes adequate care to address the latter issue.
TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:
36.  Given the primacy of textbooks in primary education, the key role played by
the EPH, and the national and sector policy reforms under way, it appears
imperative that the academic, technical and managerial skills of EPH officials
are upgraded. This goal is intended to be achieved by means of training
workshops conducted with the technical assistance from internationally recruited
short-term specialists, and study tours to neighboring as well as developed
countries. In all these cases, the stated subjects and other parameters are
indicative and by no means rigid or exhaustive.   They can be modified rationally
as appropriate, without increasing the budgeted total costs.
37.   Training Workshops:  Two training workshops of 2 weeks each would be
conducted during each of the first 5 years of the project. The workshops would
be held in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City back to back, so that the same visiting
International specialist could handle one after the other. Table 1 provides the
desired specialization of the internationally recruited short term experts and
the duration of their service.



-66-
Page 11 of 19
Table 1: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(in man-months)
Type of Speoeu           Ytw I   You 2   YW3   You 4   YoU 5   Tols
1   _o.e _do__o_ of             1      0       0       0      0       1
TWbook PubUdb__
2   TextbookDisdbuo             I      0       0       0       0       1
Lw ud*mu
3   PC-Ba  Desk-top Publi       I      0       1       0       0      2
4   Teitbook xausdlon           I       I      I       I       0      4
v  T.zabookaucur                I       I      0       0       0      2
Tots                     5      2       2       I      0       10
38.  Under the subject of general management, special emphasis would be given to
procurement and accountancy in the first year itself so that the important goal
of transforming EPH into a cost-effective, self-sustaining, self-financing and
efficient organization can be achieved in the shortest possible time.
39.   An amount of US$ 4,000 has been provided as base cost per workshop to cover
the logistic support aspects of each workshop.
40.   Study Tours:  During the first year of the project, a two week study tour
of developed countries is budgeted for 5 staff to observe and learn about the
advanced aspects of textbooks production technologies. Base cost for each staff
would be US$ 6,000.
41.   In addition, a total of 35 staff would visit neighboring countries (Hong
Kong, Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore and the Philippines), where the textbooks
production and distribution industry is fairly advanced and well established, to
observe and learn the practical aspects of textbooks production and distribution.
The study tours would be spread over the first 5 years of the project. Base cost
for each staff would be US$ 2,000 per tour.
42.   The indicative details of all the study tours are given in Table 2:
Table 2: STUDY TOURS
(Unit: One two-week study tour)
Kind of Staff               You 1    Yer 2    You 3    You 4    Yours   Told
1. Co>mu&vemnansnl               4       3       3       2        1       13
2. Texboo&edWv                   4       3       3        2       1       13
3. Productlio                    2       2       2        1       0       7
4. Dbsftutio olhdig
piovis} compana)               2       2       1       1        1       7
TOtal                     12      10      9       6        3       40
43.  In order to qualify for selection as a candidate for foreign country study
visit, the person should meet the following criteria:



-67-
Page 12 of 19
a.   Must be a regular staff member of the EPH for a minimum period of 5
years, with a satisfactory record of servico;
b.   Must be eligible for at least 10 years of service with the EPH after
the study visit;
c.    Must be a university graduate;
d.   Must have a sound background in the field of selected for the study
visit; and,
e.    Must have a good command of the English language, to be selected for
visit to developed country to study advanced technologies in textbook
production.
aPmT AND BOOKS:
44.   F=upmt: To enhance the efficiency and productivity of the EPH's
textbook development and production capabilities, certain essential equipment
needs to be provided. The most essential item is the layout equipment, which
would enable the EPH to design textbooks agreeable to printing criteria and
educational requirements. As the design itself contains information, lprovement
in design quality would automatically ensure improved contents. Further, if the
BPH develops a computer layout division capability, all the textbooks would be
typed on and designed by computers before their offset printing, thus
guaranteeing uniformity of all EPH produced textbooks.
45.   Details of the proposed equipment requirements are given In Table 3.



-68-
ANN 3
Page 13 of 19
Table 3: EQUIPNENT FOR THE EDUCATION PUBLISHING HOUSE
..  .    --    -    .                         I,,   -..l
Unit     TO
hal                         QUA*Y       nDq  Pdro
(US)     (US$
.~~ ~ _9
1. Supe omputerw -4486, S.VGA Montr, 8B RAM           4      25,000    100,000
HDD: 200 MB, 12I,44"DD                           -         -
2. Compuer e -386,8S. VGA Moo.r, 4MB RAM              4       1,500
HDD: 140MB. 121,44                                                   6.000
3. Mom                                               a8       100       SWt
4. Las WriterPrinderw( JwptPb)                         2      slob )1
S. Leat Pdnter (Potscripa Plb)                        S      5,000    25,000
6. Design and Layout Squipmn -  p                      I    111a000   XI
OS typeoCo Pocrt Piates Fot)                      . 
7. Desp and Layout Bquint. - Filgm pros                      16,000    16,0
S._PC Software oapMo design andiwg pocsndg.           4 _____          4_00_
9. Phaop_r
-Type                                                2      I'm      3,0Q
-Type                                                2      2_00_     4,'00
10. PC - color 3t plus                          ___2         5,000    1'0,
11. GTOZP, 36  S2 oxm two colh for as                 I    lOO,0OO    10o00
12. Sp ar tsnd suppme                                                  3,7
TOrAL                                                        303,=
46.  While care has been taken to ensure that the proposed equipment to be
procured under the project would be compatible with those that have been or will
be provided by the UNICEF, this important issue to be borne in mind during all
stages of equipment procurement under the project through maintaining a close
liaison with the UNICEF.
47.  The EPH's printing plant is going through a modernization program.  Some of
the equipment stated in the Table 3 may be procured out of funds from EPH's own
or some other alternate source of funds before the procurement under the project
may take place. Moreover, the proposed policy changes in the EPH's procurement
methods and practices may reduce or change the configuration of the equipment
list. Considering all these issues, the EPH is given the flexibility to propose
to the IDA for its consideration and approval at the appropriate stage, the
changes that would be required to the equipment list.
AID TO PROVINCIAL SCHOOL LIBRARIES
48.  Each of the 53 provinces has a central school library, which should house a
wide range of reference books and also the textbooks meant for rent and free
lending. To enable these libraries to effect minor repairs to buildings, to
purchase additional book-shelves as well as additional reference books, a sum of
US$ 4,000 is provided in the under the project for each central school library.



-69-
SOCIAL  REPUlBLIC OF VIETNAM                                                  ANNEX 3
PRIMARYEDUCAKnON PROJECr                                                      Appendix I
Textbooks Componeut
Number of Curricula
Present:        1. 165-Week Standard Curriculum
2.120-Week Curriculum for Ethc Minority Gups
3. 100-Week Curriculum forAdult's primy  chool equvalncy
Proposed:       Only 165-Week Standard Curic:ulum
Number of Titles
Grade                                      Standard     Ethnic     Workbook    Standard       Ethnic
Texabook    Textbook                Teacher'    Teachers
Guide       Guide
Grade 1                                            4                        3           3
Grade 2                                            3                        2           3
Grade 3                                            4                        2           4
Grade4                                             S                        2           S
GradeS                                             S                        0           S
Total                                                                                             ....   .8
Student Population ('000)
(Base 1992 EnrofLment Annual compounded growth 2%)
Grade                   1992       Year 1      Year2      Yl>r3         Year4       YearS       Year6
Grade 1                2,400        2,448       2,497       2,547        2uS98       2fi50       2,703
Grade 2                1,800        1,836       1873        1910         1,948       1,987       2,027
Grade3                 1,600        1,632       1,665       1,698        1,732       1,767       1,802
Grade 4                1,S00        1,530       1,561       1,S92       1L624        1,656       1,689
Grade           _      1,300        L326        1.353       1380         1407       1L435        1,464
Total               .   6.__
Ethnic Student Population ( 000)
(Base 1992 EnroDment; Annual compounded growth 2%)
Grade 1-5              10.00        10.20       10.40       10.61        10.82       11.04       11.26
Standard Teacher PojulatioLu ("000)
(Base 1992 Enrollment; Annual compounded gowth 2%)
Grade 1                   60          61          62           64          65          66           68
Grade2                    45          46          47           48          49          so           51
Grade3                    40          41          42           42          43          44           45
Grade4                    36          37          37           38          39          40           41
GradeS                    3233                    33           34          35          35           36
Total:...e..                                        .  *tv.4.;.w    .&.'.
Ethnic Teacher Population 000)
(Base 1992 Enollment, Annual compounded growth 2%)
Grade 1-5               1.00         1.02        104         1.06        1O8         1.10        1.13



-70-
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM                                                 ANNEX 3
PRIMARYEDUCATnONPROJECr                                                        Appeadix 1
TextbookB Componeat
Print Phasluf and Print Ous_tity Rate
TMpe & GradeYear                                           _Ye3          Yar4        YenrS        Year 6
Standard Textbooks and Standuad Teachers' Guides:
Grade 1                               0%        100%          50%         50%          40%          0%
Gade2                                 0%        100%          50%         50%          40%          0%
Grade3                                0%          0%         100%         50%          50%          0%
Grade4                                0%          0%         100%         50%          50%          0%
GradeS                                0%          0%          0%         100%          50%          0%
Ethnic Textboos and Ethnic Teacher' Guides:
Grades 1-5                          100%        100%         100%        100%         100%          0%
Workbooks:
Grade 1-4                           100%        100%         100%        100%         100%          0%
GradeS                                0%          0%           0%          0%           0%          0%
Print Quantfits (NO. of os in '000
(Pduct of relevan Population, No. of lItls and Prit Quatity Rate)
le & GradelYear                    Yal         Yar2         Yoar3       Year4        Years       Year6
StadardTextbooks
Grade 1                                0         9,988       5,094        S,196       4,240           0
Grade 2                                0         5,618       2,86S       2,923        2,385           0
Gmade3                                 0            0        6,792       3,464        3,S33           0
Grade 4                                0            0        7,959       4,059        4,140           0
GradeS                                 0            0           0        7.036        3,S88           0
Sub-Total                                                         _
EthnicTextboicds:
Grade 1-S                            81.6         83.2        84.9         86.6        883          0.0
Workbook'
Grade 1                             7,344        7,491       7,641        7,794       7,949           0
Grade2                              3,672        3,745       3,820        3,897       3,97S           0
Grade 3                             3,264        3,329       3,396       3,464        3,533           0
Crade 4                             3,060        3,121       3,184       3,247        3,312           0
GradS                                   0           0           0            0           0            0
Sub-Total.'..4d~1 



-71-
SOCUUIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM                                                 ANNEX 3
PIUMARY EDUCAZON PROJECr                                                     Appondi I
Textbooks Component
Standard Teachers Guides:
Grade 1                                0         187          96          97           79           0
Grade 2                                0         140          72          73           60           0
Grade 3                                0           0         170          87           88           0
Grade 4                                0           0         191          97           99           0
GradeS                                 0           0           0          173          88           0
Sub-Total                                        32          S2_
Ethnic Teachers Guides:
Grade l-S                            82          83           85          8.7         8.8         0.0
Textbook Production Cosb USSCogy)
(Cment Vietnamese prices compounded by 17% pa.)
StandardTextbook                  O.ASOO       0.17SS      0.20S3      0.2402      02811
Ethnic Teitbook                   0.1500       0.175S      0.20S3      02402       0.2811
Workbook                          01m400       0.0468      0.0548      0.0641      0.0750
Std. Teachers' Guide              03000        03510       0.4107      0.4805      05622
EthL Teachers' Guide              03000        03000       03000       03000       03000
Notes:          These prices are subjected an additional 2.8% pa. for
iflation. The cover price of each book b calculated by
gossing up the producdon coot by about 42.8% to cover
distribution and overhead cost whih constitute 20% and 10%
respecdtve of the cover price.
Standard Textbook Distrbution Pattern
Saleatfuiprice                      50%         40%         3S%          30%         20%         20%
Rent at a Fee                       35%         40%         45%          50%         S5%         55%
Borrowwithout fee                   15%         20%         20%          20%         25%         25%
Workbook Distribution Pattern
Saleatfullprice                     85%         80%         80%          80%         75%         75%
RentataFee                           0%          0%          0%           0%          0%          0%
Borrowwithout fee                   15%         20%         20%          20%         25%         25%



-72-
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIE NAM                                                           ANNEX 3
PRIMARY EDUCANON PROJECr                                                                Appendix 2
EPH CASH PLOW (USS '000)
COSTS AND REVENE RELATING T PROJECr INTERVTION
93    194    1995         996    1997    1998    1999
I. Cost:
a. Cost of Textbooks Productot: V
StandardTextbooks                                  0    3170    SSS0    6670    6330         0        0
Ethnic Textbowcs                                  20       20      20       30      30       0        0
Workbools                                        780      960    1180    1440    1770        0        0
Teachere Guides                                    0      130     260      310     290       0        0
EthnicTeachers' Guides                             4        4       4       4        4       0        0
Sub-Total                                        804    4284    7014    8454    8424         0        0
b. Overhead and Distnriuton 2/                     344    1834    3002    3618    3605         0       0
TOTAL OUTFLOW                                         ,160                        120
II. Revenue Pattern: 3/
a. Stanadard Textbooks:
Sale                                            SO%      40%     35%      30%     20%      20%     20%
Rental                                          3S%      40%     45%      SO%     S5%      SS%     S5%
Free Lending                                     15%     20%     20%      20%     25%      25%     25%
b. Workbooks (Sale only)                          85%     80%      80%     80%      75%     75%      75%
m. Revenue:
a. Standard Textbooks:
1. Sale                                             0    1268    1943    2001    1266         0       0
2. Rental:
1st Year                                          0        0       0       0        0       0        0
2ndYear                                           0      423     423      423       0       0        0
3rdYear                                           0        0     833      833     833       0        0
4th Year                                          0        0       0    1112    1112    1112         0
5th Year                                          0        0       0       0    1161    1161    1161
Sub-Total                                           0    1691    3198    4368    4371    2272    1161
3. Overhead and Distribution 21                     0     724    1369    1869    1871       972     497
Total "a"                     _                                                    6
b. Workbooks:
1. Sale                                           663     768      944    1152    1328        0       0
2. Rental                                           0       0       0        0       0        0       0
Sub-Total                                         663     768      944    1152    1328        0       0
3. Overhead and DistIbution 2/                    284     329      404     493      568       0       0
Total                                                                _ .1
Total Revenue (%a + 'bm)                           947    3511    5914    7882    8137    3245    1657
IDA Financing (Conta) I/                           804    4284    7014    8454    8424         0       0
TOTALINFLOW 
NET    LOW/(OUTOW)                                             e42'                  :K  -24 
CUMULATIVE.-M*'    S8'r
U IDA fiaced; Based on Detaild Codt Tab 101; See conta in Inflow.
2142.8% of produ       coCt or 30% of coverpdos.
3/ No revenu fom et0icn tetbooks and aR teadiem  ph.



-73-
MOCAL4L REPUBLIC OF VJEI?AM                                                   ANNEX 3
PlRMARY EDUCATION PROJECr                                                     Appendix 3
IIM  OUTSIDE IDA FINACING
tok       XYear 1      You 2       Yeoa 3       Xea_ 4      Year S
Ls Old Textbooks
1. S_tdet Po}uation ('00)1/
Grade 1                            2400        2448
Grade2                             1800        1836
Grade3                             1600        1632         1665
Grade4                             1500        1530         1561
GradeS                             1300        1326         1353        1380
. Prt Qty(aM grades) 2/                          30%         30%          30%
:. N_mber of lIt!.s 3/
Grade 1                                           S
Grade2                                            4
Grade3                                            5            5
Grade 4                                           6            6
GdeS 5                                            6            6           6
L. No. of Textbooks (D00)
Grade 1                                        4406
Grade2                                         2203
Grade 3                                        2448         2497
G3rade4                                        2754         2809
Grade S                                        2387         2435        2483
Total                                          4_
L. Cost (USIMSVCo) 41
Production                       0.1500       0.1755      0.2053       0.2402
Distnrbution & Overheads         0.0642       0.0751      .01879       0.1028
Tota                             02142        02506       0.2932       0.3431
D Total Costs (JSS '000)
Grade 1                                         1104
Grade2                                          552
Grade 3                                         614          732
Grade 4                                         690          824
GradeS                                          598          714         852
Tota
cumulative                                             .S8               68
[L Textbooks for Teachers' Takinig School Sl
i. For 12+2 proaramrn:
Tota No. of books for S yeats                            1665000
Total base costs (US$)                                    SS1900
b. For 9+3 proarmnIe:
Total No. of books for Syears                             220000
Totd base costs (USS)                                     236300
Trnldation of 10 books (USS)                              187500
Total (US$)                                            flSo O



vI          eq  oo
0 0 
e4
m              -
B                       000
II                000
"I         
,ii
6I
000
a
- I
'S
Si
000
-  *Ibd
WV'                      eqO
0                        *0
21
tI
;II   Ii                          ;ii
pII    
IN
:11     'S
I i i I A               a a
   q
                    oj
0   



-75-
ANNEX4
Page 1 of 2
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC TEACHING AIDS FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS
Many Vietnamese primary schools, especially those in rural areas, have
virtually no teaching aids; often the only teaching aid other than textbooks
is a blackboard. Where such aids are available at all, they are often twenty
or thirty years old and in a bad state of disrepair. Teaching and learning
suffer, and children who are unable to learn are at high risk of repeating or
dropping out of school before they achieve functional literacy.
Under the project, it is proposed to address this critical quality issue
by providing a standard package of very simple equipment and basic teaching
aids such as maps, a globe, and measuring and weighing devices to every school
offering primary education in the country. Such aids are already being
produced in Viet Nam. The standard package, prepared by the Ministry of
Education and Training's General Company for Educational Equipment and
consisting of 34 items, is estimated to cost about US$250 equivalent.
Viet Nam has a long tradition whereby teachers develop and produce their
own teaching and learning aids. Efforts to encourage this tradition have
included competitions, workshops, and incentives for teachers. This effort
would be further ercouraged under the project. Specifically, the project
would include financial assistance for organizing, at the provincial and at
the national levels, exhibitions of self-produced teaching aids. Such
exhibitions would be held twice during the project period. At the provincial
level, a prize consisting of a set of "ideal* teaching aids and equipment
would be awarded to the school whose teacher had developed the teaching aid
judged best in the exhibition, The winners in the provincial competitions
would be allowed to exhibit in the national competitions.



-76-
Page 2 .f 2
No.                 Description                                                     uantity
.... ..   ..................................................................         ................................. ....
1.  For Vietnamese Lauaae
1      Set of pictures of model letters end numbers                                    2
2      Set of pictures for teaming syllables (36 pictures)                             2
3      Alphabet set for teaming syltabtes                                              2
4      Set of letters for teaching writing practice                                    2
5      Set of pictures for teaching reading In Vietnamese in Grade I                   2
6      Set of pictures for teaching Vietnamese in Grade 2                              2
7      Set of pictures for teaching Vietnamese language and literature                 2
in Grade 3
8      Set of pictures for teaching Vietnamese t:nAuage and literature                 2
in Grade 4
9      Set of pictures for teaching Vietnamese lc-guage and literature                 2
in Grade 5
It. For Arithmetic
10       agnetic board (40 x 70 cm)                                                     2
11      Magnetic blocks                                                                60
12      Abacus                                                                          2
13      Scales and weights (200 grams)                                                  1
14      Demonstration clock face                                                        2
15      Set of measuring devices (compass, right trianglet  protractor,                 2
meter stick)
16      Set of plastic measuring cups                                                   2
17      Set of plastic cubes for demonstrating volume                                   2
Ill. For Other Sublects
18      Wall thermometer                                                                1
19      Directional compass                                                             1
20      Globe                                                                           1
21      Water turbine                                                                   1
22      Plastic gyroscope                                                               I
23      Arrow for showing wind direction                                                1
24      Adcinistrative map of Viet Ram                                                  1
25      Physical map of Viet Nam                                                        1
26      Set of sfmptl tools (he r, pliers, screwdriver. ete.)                           1
27      Mechanical model-making set                                                     1
28      Set of pictures for teaching Vietnamese history in Grade 4                      1
29      Set of pictures for teaching Vietnamese history in Grade 5                      I
30      Mandolin                                                                        1
31      Ba'boo flute                                                                    2
32      Magnifying glass with a metal frame                                             2
33      Set of model teeth                                                              1
34      Primary-school reference books (atlas, dictionary, picture                      I
,nycoEdi a)                                                O
Source:   General Company for Educational Equipment, Ministry  of Education



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONS WUICH TRAIN PRIMARY-SCHOOL TEACpERS #
1. Institutions betonaina to Provincial Governments 2'
rcNinoe           Nam  of School 3.'               Location                                                      LeveL of Trainini Offered '
12+2. 9+3   12+3    12+4
Lai Chau           Lai Chau PTTS                    Tuan Giao C* ' of Tuan GIso District)                    x
Son La             Son La PTTS                      Hat Lot (* of Mal Son Dlstrict)                          x
Yen Bai            Yen Bal PTTS                     Nghia Lo (* of Van Chan District)                        x
Yen Baf JTTC                     Yen Sai (Prov. *)                                       x
Lao Cal            Lao Cal PTTS                     Kim Tan Ward, Lao Cal (Prov. ')                          x
Na lwan            Na Oiang PTTS                    Ha Clang (Prov. )x
Tuyen ouans        TWen Ouamn PTTS                  Tuyen Ouang (Proa.m                                      x
co gm      Co        o Baw  PITS                    coo  m  (Prov.) 
Law SM             Lam Son PITS                     Lan Son (Prov.')                                         x
um   H1nh          OUq mw 1 nh JttC                 Uong Si Tom  (has status of District)                    x
No Binh            HoJ Binh PTTS                    Chm Nat Wrd"  Hoa 5fnh (Prow. ')                         x
Na TaY             Na Tay PTtS                      Xuan Nse (* of Xuan Hal District)                        x
Vfnu  Phu          Vinh Phu PTTS                    Ns Loc Ward, Phu Tho Tomn (has status of dfstriet)       x
Sac Thai           Sac Thai PITS                    Dat Of Ward, Thai Nguyen (Prov. ')                       x
Y'      See Note I at the end of this annex.
See Note 2 at the end of this anmex.
V       See Note 3 at the end of this amex.
See Note 3 at the end of this amex.
V       tee lndicates capital of the province



1.  Institutions belonainq to Provincial G6vernqts (continued)
Province                NaF  of Schotl                          Location                                                     Level of trainina Offered
12+2. 9+3    12+3     12*4
Ha sac                  Ha Bac PTTS                             Que Wham Ward, Tan Yen (* of Tan Yen District)                    x
Hanoi                   Hanoi PTTS                              Cong Vy Ward, Ba Dinh District                                    x
Hanoi JTTC                             Cau Gfay Ward, Tu Liem District                                             x
Hai Hung                Hai Hung PTTS                           Hien Nam Ward, Kim Thi (* of Kim Thi District)                    x
Hal Hung JTTC                          Hal Duong (Prov. *)                                                         x
Haiphong                Haiphong PTTS                           Kien An (* of Kien An District)                                   x
Nam Ha                   Nam Ha PTTS                            Phu Ly Town (has status of District)                              x
Ninh Binh                Minh Binh PTTS                         Khanh Nhac Commure, Yen Khanh Oistrict                            x
Thai 8inh                Thai Binh PTTS                         Thai Binh (Prov. *)                                               x
Thanh Hoa                Thanh Noa PTTS                         Guang Tan Commu.m, Ouang Xuong District                           x                                  I
Thanh Hoa JTTC                         Thanh Hoa (Prov. *)                                                                                  I
Ugh. An                  ghe An Delta Area PTTS                 Vinh (Prov. *)                                                    x
Nghe An Nountain Area PTTS             Lat (* of Tan Ky District)                                         x
Nghe An PTTS at Ky Son                 Ky Son (* of Ky Son District)                                     x
Ha Tinh                 Ha Tinh PTTs                            Ha Tinh (Prov. *)                                                 x
Quang Binh               Quang Binh PTTS                        Dong Hoi (Prov. *)                                                 x
Quang Tri               Quang Trf PTTS                          Dong Ha (Prov. *)                                                  x
Thus Thien-Hue          Thus Thien-Hue JTTC                     Hu6 City (Prov. *)                                                x
Quang Nam-Danang        Ouang Nam-Danang JTTC                   Hoa Khanh Commune, Hoa Vang District                               x
Quang Ngai               Ouang Ngai JTTC                        Quang Ngai (Prov. *)                                               x        x
Binh Dinh                Binh Dinh PTTS                         Oui Whon (Prov.  )                                                 x 
0P
Phu Yen                 Phu Yen PTTS                            Tuy Ho& (Proy. ')x 
o



1. Iatitutions belontgna to Provincial Governments (continued)
Province               NMae of Schoot                          Location                                                    Levet of Trainirj Offered
12+2. 9+3    12+3     12+4
Khanh Ho&               Khanh Hoe JTTC                         Nha Trang (Prov. *)                                              x
Nlnh Thuan              Ninh Thuon PTTS                        Phan Rang-Thap Chai Town (Prov. *)                               x
Bfnh Thuan              Binh Thuan PtTS                        Phan Thiet (Prov. *)                                             x
Kon Tun                 Kan Tum PTTS                           Kon tum (Prov. *)                                                x
Gia Lai                 Cia Laf PTTS                           Ptai Cu (Prov. *)                                                x
Dac Lec                 Dec Lac PTTS                           Hoe Thang Comnune, Buon Na Thuot tProv. *)                       x
Lam Dong                Lam Dong JTTC                          Da Lot (Prov. *)                                                 x
Toy Ninh                Toy Minh PTTS                          Toy Minh (Prov. )                                                x
Song Be                 Song Be JTTC                           Thu Dau Not (Prov. *)                                            x
Dong Mai                Dong Nal PTTS                          sinh Da Vard, Bien Hoe (Prov. )                                  x 
Ba Ria-Vung Tau         Vung Tau PtTS                          Vung Tau City (Prov. *)                                          x                                   f
No Chl Unfh City        9O Chi minh City PTTS                  Nguyen Du Street, lst District                                   x
Ho Chi  infh City JTTC                An Duong Vuong street, 5th District                                        x
Long An                 Long An JTTC                           Tan An (Prov. C)                                                 x         x
Tien Giang              Tien Giang PTTS                        hy Tho (Prov. *)                                                 x
Ben Tre                 Ben Tre PTTS                           Ben Tre (Prov. *)                                                x
Dong Thap               Dong Thap JTTC                         Coo Lanh (Prov.  )                                               x         x
Vinh Long               Vinh Long PTTS                         Vinh Long (Prov. )                                               x
ctt
0w



1. Institutions eltrmina to Provincial Govanuants (continued)
iNceS                NM  of Sdool                         I.oeatio                                                       Level of  frainina Otfered
12+2. 9+3  12324-
Tra Vinh             Tra Vinh PITS                        Tra Vfnh (Prov. *)                                        x
An Sias              An Glan PMTS                         Lang XuVn (Prov. *)                                       x
Soc Tran             Soc Trn PITS                         Soc Trwng (Prov. *)                                       x
Ethnic Ninority PITS                 SoW Tra   CProv.  )                                       x
Can Tno              Can Tho JTTC                         Can Tho (Prov. *)                                         x
Klen G1ans           Kiln Gian  PITS                      tach Sol Ward, Rach Gis (Prov. *)                         x
nie Ibl              NiHnh Nai PTTS                       Iba Lien Toun (has status of District)                    x
11. ntiutgMons betlannM  to the Ninistry of Eduatfon and Trainim (Nationat Coverrmant2
IM  of ..wol                           Lom c                                                        L tve of Trafninm Offered
122. 9.3    12+3      12.4
Nans                   Nlai TTC lo. 1                           C u Clay Wwd, Tu Lies District
lidpinh    k                 Ilhon TIC                           lu Wmhon (Pro. *)                                                                     x
Note 1.      Viet Ma has 62 institutions uhich train teachers for primary schools. The annual output is about 12,000.  Of these 62 institutfonts  o0 (46
Primary Teacher Training Schools and 14 Junior Teacher Training Colleges) are financed and operated by provitnIfal goverrents; 2 Teacher
Training Colleges are financed and operated by the Rinistry of Education and Training (national governeent).
Note 2.     All of Viet 11m*s current 53 provinees have at least one institution which trains teachers for primary schools.
Note 3.     PTTS a Primary Teacher Trainins School (Trugna C tI   Mae Su MM). These institutions offer the standard teacher training course for
primary-school teachers, which consists of 2 years of teacher training follofing 12 years of general education (primary plus Lower and upper
secondary). Some also offer the alternative training course for primary-school teachers, which consists of 3 years of teacher training
following 9 years of general education (primary plus lower secondary). Graduates receive a certificate.
JTTC u Junior Teacher Training College (Tc=na Cao Dona Su Pla). These institutions mainly train teachers for lower-secondary schools in a
course consisting of 3 years of teacher training folloming 12 years of general education (primary plus lower and upper secondary). Graduates
receive a certificate.  Thirteen JTTCs (those listed in this annex) also train teachers for primary schools (also in a 3-year course
followfng 12 years of general education).
TTC a Teacher Training College (Truor Rdj Hoe Su Pha).  These institutions mainly train teachers for upper-secondary schools in a course           (5
consisting of 4 years of teacher training following 12 years of general educatfon (primary plus lower and upper secondary).  Graduates              w. w
receive a diploma.  Two TTCs (those listed in this annex) also train teachers for primary schools (also in a 4-year course following 12 years
of general education).



-81-                     NE  6
Page 1 of 21
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAN
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
THE ETHNIC NINORITIESfMOUNTAINOUS AREAS EDUCATION COMPONENTY'
ha2k92Mnd
1.          Viet Nam bas 54 ethnic groups.  Of these, ethnic Kinh represent
about 87% of the total population. Of the remainder, two groups, the Tay and
the Thai, have populations in excess of one million each, according to the
1989 Population Census.  Another twelve groups--the Muong, Hoa, Khmer (Khome),
Nung, Hmong, Yao (Dao), Jarai (Ciarai), Ede (Rhade), Bahnar (Bana), San Chay,
Chai, and Sedang (Xodang)--have populations ranging from almost one million to
around 0.1 million. At the other end of the scale, the smallest ethnic
minorities have populations of only 100-200. Each group has its own language
and culture. The larger groups have many, sometimes scores, of local
subgroups with their own names and dialects. Although many of these ethnic
minorities live in the mountainous areas, some (e.g., the Cham) live in the
lowlands, and some (e.g., the Hoa) are predominantly urban dwellers. Ethnic
minorities live throughout the national territory and are represented in
virtually all of the provinces of Viet Nam.
2.          One of the main objectives of the proposed Primary Education
Project is to improve primary education for ethnic minority children, particu-
larly those who live in Viet Nam's mountain areas. These children face a
number of special problems. Inputs provided under the component would not
address all of the problems. In particular, it would not immediately or
directly improve the gconomic conditions of ethnic minority families, even
though research indicates that (i) high rates of participation in primary
education are very closely linked to high rates of economic growth and (ii)
primary education has a high economic rate of return. Neither would it change
entrenched cultural perceptions as to the value of education, although it
would Improve the quality of the educational services being offered, thus
encouraging a more positive view of the value of education. The component
would provide a comprehensive package of educational inputs to selected ethnic
minority children, most of them living in mountainous areas, and to other
children in the mountainous areas. This proposed package would consist of (a)
gnlicy measures; (b) pedagogical activities; (c) grovision gf phyical
facilities in support of the policy measures and pedagogical activities; and
(d) institution-building.
V           This Annex is an annotated version of ' much larger report of the
same title, which is available in the project files.



-82-                    mm  6
Page 2 of 21
?roposed Activities
3.          The gglicy measures are intended to ensure that existing primary-
education facilities are used to capacity and that all primary children are
exposed to the same basic curriculum. In this regard, the Government has
indicated its intent to adopt the 165 week curriculum for all regular pzimary
classes.
4.          The pggdg2gical actvitfie  would support three areas of special
concern for ethnic minorities and other populations living in mountainous
areas: (i) multi-grade teaching, for remote, sparsely populated mountainous
areas where there are not enough children in a given school catchment area to
justify having a single teacher and a separate classroom at each grade level;
(ii) mother-tongue literacy teaching for ethnic minority children, and (lii)
the teaching of Vietnamese as the national language, for the same children.
The first of these three areas, multi-grade teaching, is not necessarily
limited to ethnic minority children; nevertheless, the two phenomena--sparse
population and ethnic minority population--often coincide in Viet Nam's
mountainous areas.
5.          The following pedagogical activities would be undertaken:
(a) Development of learning materials suitable for multi-grade
teaching (payment to authors, printing, testing, and
distribution);
(b) Training of teachers in the techniques of multi-grade
teaching for children living in sparsely populated areas;
(c) Revision and/or reprinting of materials that have already
been developed in ethnic minority languages;
(d) Carrying out of studies (with the help of technical
assistants) in selected major ethnic minority languages,
establishment of approved orthographies for each language,
and devclopment of reference materials, to contribute to the
development of appropriate language policies;
(e) Development of learning materials for mother-tongue literacy
teaching in eight selected major ethnic minority languages
(Thai, Muong, Nung, Hmong, Jarai, Bahnar, Chan, and Sedang);
(f) Training of teachers in the techniques of mother-tongue
literacy teaching for ethnic minority children;
(g) Development of learning materials to be used for teaching
Vietnamese as the national language; and
(h) Training of teachers in the techniques of teaching Vietnamese
as the national language to children from ethnic minorities.
6.          Finally, once the policy measures have been initiated and
pedagogical activities are underway, limited phyuical fa.litSes would be



-83-                    ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 21
provided under the project to expand and improve the network, as required.
This would include:
(a) Repair of existing classrooms, replacement of seriously
dilapidated classrooms which are beyond repair, and
construction of new classrooms, if necessary, in sites
selected according to agreed criteria;
(b) Provision of latrines and water systems, as necessary, in all
schools benefiting from civil works under this component; and
(c) Provision of essential school furniture (including desks,
chairs, blackboards, and storage cupboards) in all schools
benefiting from civil works under this component.
7.          Institution-building, would be supported through:  (a) increasing
the capacity of the Ministry of Education and Training (MOET), its Research
Center for Ethnic Minority Education (RCEME), Provincial and District
Education Services, and primary-school teachers to deal effectively with the
educational problems of ethnic minority children and other children in
mountainous areas; and (b) the establishment of a Steering Committee comprised
of the major partner agencies to guide and manage the ethnic minority
component. Assistance would be provided through the establishment of
appropriate management and advisory units, the provision of expatriate
technical assistance, the collection of data, the carrying out of local
seminars and workshops, the provision of material inputs including vehicles
and office equipment, and the introduction of on-going programs to develop
appropriate materials and train teachers.
S.          Proposed sequence of activities.  This annex presents a proposal
for (a) the policy measures required for the component, (b) the implementation
and scheduling of the related pedagogical aspects, and (c) the provisign of
Dhnsical facilities in the mountain areas (quantities are given in the annexes
describing the project's Construction Component). It is proposed that, to the
extent feasible, the building and repair activities and the provision of
furniture foll   the introduction of the policy measures and the successful
implementation of the pedagogical activities: i.e., civil works (repair and
rehabilitation of existing classrooms, construction of new classrooms,
provision of latrines and water systems) and provision of furniture would not
take place until the policy measures had been introduced and until the
pedagogical activities (e.g., research into the ethnolinguistic situation;
development, testing, printing, and distribution of appropriate learning
materials; training of teachers) had been successfully completed. The
districts and villages where the pedagogical aspects had been implemented
successfully should therefore be the first ..reas to benefit from the provision
of facilities. This sequence would ensure that repaired classrooms would be
adequately utilized and would have trained teachers and adequate materials.
Minor repairs of schools could, however, be carried out under the component at
the same time as the development of the pedagogical materials and the training
of teachers. The costs for such minor repairs would be relatively small.
Criteria for the Selection of Ethnic Ninorities



-84-                    AM  6
Page 4 of 21
9.          Given the impossibility of working with all ethnic minorities
under a single project, beneficiary groups were carefully selected based on a
number of criteria. A first consideration was Interest in participating on
the part of the ethnic minority in question. During project preparation
primary schools in several ethnic minority areas were visited, and discussions
were held (through interpreters) with ethnic minority pupils, parents, and
teachers. All groups contacted expressed interest in participating in the
component. Thus, while interest was of primary importance for participation,
it was not a useful consideration In narrowing the focus to a feasible number
of groups.
10.         A second consideration was the potential ipact that could be
derived from a given investment in linguistic research and the development of
teaching and learning materials in a given ethnic minority language. This
consideration intrinsically favored larger groups. On this basis, it was
decided to focus on ethnic minorities with populations of about 100,000 or
more, leaving the remaiuder for a future project.
11.         A third consideration, transferability, is a corollary of the
second consideration: whether work done on one ethnic minority language could
be easily transferred to another, related ethnic minority language. Work done
to develop learning materials in the Nung language, for example, would be very
useful for later work on the Tay language, or vice versa; similarly, work done
on the Hmong language would be very useful for later work on the Yao language,
or vice versa. On the basis of this consideration, it was decided to focus on
Tay or on Nung, but not both, and on Hmong or on Yao, but not both, in the
component.
12.         A fourth consideration was availabllitv, i.e. whether teaching and
learning materials were already available in a given language. It was
determined that a dearth of materials exists for all ethnic minorities. A
fifth consideration was whether a given ethnic minority was already bilingul,
reducing the urgency of providing mother-tongue literacy teaching.
13.         A sixth consideration was the distribution of ethnlc minority
ggpolations. With the exception of the Hoa and the Khmer, who are not
considered "indigenous" ethnic minorities, the six largest ethnic minorities
in Viet Sam are all located in the northern part of the country. It was felt
that some geographical diversity was worthwhile, and it was decided that about
half of the groups to be included in the component should be from the South
and about half from the North.
14.         A seventh consideration was whether the target area being
considered was mountainous. It was felt important to take into account
factors such as remoteness, difficulty of access, and relative lack of
physical Infrastructure as well as presence of ethnic minorities. However,
with the exception of the 11 provinces of the Nekong Delta and 3 provinces
between Hanoi and the sea, afl the provinces of Viet Nam are wholly or



-85-                    ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 21
partially mountainous. This consideration was therefore not very useful in
limiting the scope of the component.2'
15.         An eighth consideration was previous involvement of other
agengies. UNICEF, in particular, has been involved in a basic education
project with some of the largest ethnic minorities in eight provinces of Viet
Nam; its project has focused on the In-service training of teachers to enable
them to teach successfully in a multi-grade classroom, but not on ethnic
minority languages per i in these eight provinces. On the basis of this
consideration, it was felt useful to build on the experience of UNICEF in
these eight provinces.
16.         On the basis of all these considerations, a tentative list of
provinces and ethnic minorities to benefit from the component was drawn up.
The list includes the eight provinces where UNICEF has been active: Son La,
Hoa Binh, Lang Son, Yen Bai, Lao Cai, Gia Lai, Kon Tum, and Ninh Thuan. The
RCEME is presently collecting data on the ethnic minority languages spoken,
and number of speakers, in each of the eight selected provinces. About 45% of
Viet Nam's ethnic minority population are represented by ethnic minority
languages spoken in these eight provinces. The list also includes eight of
the 14 largest ethnic minorities in Viet Nam:  the Thai, the Muong, the Nung,
the Hmong, the Jarai, the Bahnar, the Cham, and the Sedang. Four of these are
major groups in the North of Viet Nam; the other four are major groups in the
South. Furthermore, all are linguistically related to other ethnic
minorities, and it is hoped that the experience gained can be transferred to
other groups, with the lessons learned in the eight selected provinces being
used to expand similar activities to other provinces in subsequent programs.
.articiDating Agencies
17.         Three agencies (in addition to the World Bank) worked together to
develop the package of inputs for ethnic minorities and suggest provinces and
groups to benefit from the project. The first was the RCEME. Staffed largely
by native ethnic minority speakers, its role is to promote research on issues
and problems affecting ethnic minority education and encourage the development
of educational programs providing solutions to these problems.
18.         The second party was UNICEF.  UNICEF's Program Officer for
Education in Viet Nam participated in the World Bank's Second Preparation
Mission for this project (January-February 1991) and every mission thereafter,
until she moved to a new position in early 1993. UNICEF continues to be
involved in a basic education project with ethnic minorities in all eight of
the selected provinces which has been funded with donations from Australia and
Japan. This project, which has focused on in-service training of teachers,
has given UNICEF a great deal of valuable experience in the introduction of
multi-grade teaching -- including experience in the development of appropriate
curricula, the production and provision of suitable teaching aids, and the
V           As it turned out, however, seven of the eight ethnic minorities
chosen for inclusion in the component are mountain-dwellers; only the Cham are
lowland dwellers, albeit in a relatively less densely populated part of the
coast.



-86-                    ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 21
training of teachers. UNICEF would continue its basic education project and
to coordinate it with parallel activities being assisted under the proposed
Primary Education Project so that useful innovations may be replicated in as
wide an area as possible. Because of this experience, it is proposed that the
agency play a key role in providing advice and guidance to the Vietnamese
authorities responsible for implementing this component. Specifically, the
Chief of UNICEF's Education Program would provide advice not only on multi-
grade teaching but also on other activities to be implemented under this
component.
19.         The third party involved in developing the component was World
Vision. World Vision, a non-governmental organization (NGO) already active in
Viet Nam, began discussions with the Government of Viet Nam about possible
assistance for ethnic minority education in March 1990 and began discussions
with the World Bank shortly thereafter. World Vision has provided a full-time
expatriate specialist in ethnic minority languages, serving as Aoplied
Linguistics Advisor (a linguist with expertise in developing textbooks) (terms
of reference are attached), and is planning to provide a full-time expatriate
specialist in ethnic minority education, serving as Ethnic Minority Literacy
Advisor (terms of reference are attached). These two specialists would work
closely with RCEME and UNICEF in the implementation of the component.'
Ethnic Minority ParticiRation
20.         A number of activities have already taken place, and others are
under way, to: (a) confirm that the eight selected ethnic minorities were and
continue to be interested in participating in the project and (b) ensure that
these groups participate actively in the development and implementation of the
component.   An Ethnic Minority Literacy Seminar, sponsored by the MOET in
conjunction with World Vision, was held in Viet Nam in March 1992, and
representatives from all eight ethnic groups selected were invited, to
determine the extent of their interest, discuss the proposed component, and
elicit their views and advice on how to proceed. The representatives of all
eight groups endorsed the types of activities envisioned, expressed enthusiasm
at being included in the component, and shared ideas for improving
implementation which have been incorporated into the component's design.
21.         The RCEME has been doing surveys in four selected provinces since
mid-1992 to gather base-line information cn the groups in these areas. The
World Vision-financed Applied Linguistics Advisor has, together with RCEME
staff, developed an instrument for gathering demographic and ethnolinguistic
data. They have been gathering data on the number of native speakers of each
selected ethnic minority language and making an inventory of the linguistic
and educational materials already available in these languages. The resulting
data will be used in further planning and selection of experimental schools in
which the component's pedagogical activities would be introduced.
1           The two full-time specialists are being provided to World Vision
by The Summer Institute of Linguistics, an NGO specializing in ethnic minority
languages and literacy education.



-87-
ANNEX A
Page 7 of 21
22.         In addition to gathering data available in Hanoi, RCEME and World
Vision have begun to undertake a series of in-depth visits to ethnic minority
areas in the eight selected provinces. These in-depth visits began in March
1993 with a visit to the Nung ethnic minority in Lang Son Province and in
April with a visit to the Hmong in Lao Cai and Son La Provinces. Similar
visits are scheduled to the Cham (in Ninh Thuan Province), Jarai (in Gia Lai
Province), Bahnar (in Gia Lai and Kon Tum Provinces), and Sedang (in Kon Tum
Province). The two remaining visits, to the Thai (in Son La and Yen Bai
Provinces) and the Muong (in Hoa Binh Province), are to be completed in late
1993. These in-depth visits to the eight ethnic minority areas are being
conducted by World Vision and RCEME staff who are native speakers from the
ethnic minority being visited. The main purpose of the visit is to discuss
the proposed project with ethnic minority cowmunities, solicit their advice
and suggestions, and confirm their interest (or lack thereof). Also during
the visits, detailed statistics are collected -- ouch topics as the numbers of
speakers of the ethnic minority language, by district, the number of primary
schools, and enrollments (both total and ethnic minority). In addition, an
inventory is made of any existing educational materials or literature
available in the ethnic minority language. After the first series of visits
is completed, follow-up visits will take place regularly t'uroughout the
implementation of the component.
23.         Presently, MOET, assisted by UNICEF and World Vision, is actively
preparing for two workshops: (a) a workshop on the development of schooling
for Cham children (scheduled for October 1993) and (b) a workshop on the
development of schooling for Hmong children (scheduled for November 1993).
These workshops are additional preparatory steps in the implementation of the
component.
Management and Staffing (See Chart 3)
24.         The implementation of the component would be under the overall
supervision of the Director of the RCEME, who would serve as Assistant Project
Manager for the Ethnic Minorities/Mountainous Areas Education Components and
have day-to-day management responsibilities for component activities in the
northern part of Viet Nam. He would be assisted in his responsibilities by a
Deputy Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic Minorities/Mountainous Areas
Education Component, who would have day-to-day management responsibilities for
component activities in the southern part of the country. These two
individuals would be assisted by a Steering Committee and various national
staff and expatriate technical advisors, as described below. In addition to
coordinating the activities of all the various expatriate and national staff
working on the implementation of this component, the Assistant Project Manager
and the Deputy Assistant Project Manager for this component would be
responsible for liaising with: (i) the Assistant rroject Manager for the
Construction Component (to ensure that the construction activities are
coordinated with the pedagogical activities); (ii) the Assistant Project
Manager for the Textbook Component (to ensure the timely preparation of
f           The Primary Education Project itself will have a Project Manager;
each major component, including the Ethnic Minorities Component, will have an
Assistant Project Manager.



-88-                    ANNgK 6
Page 8 of 21
teaching materials for multi-grade teaching, mother-tongue literacy teaching,
and the teaching of Vietnamese as the national language); and (iiI) the
Assistant Project Manager for Administration and Finance (to ensure that
resources are available as needed for the implementation of the component).
25.         The Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic
Minorities/Mountainous Areas component would be advised and assisted in his
management responsibilities by a Steering Committee and by a Natinogal Advisory
Council for Ethnic Minority Education. Much of the day-to-day implementation
of the component would be undertaken by two Imnlementatlion Units, one for t'
North and one for the South. Language Teams, one for each of the eight
languages selected, would work as part of each of the two Implementation
Units. Province Advisory Councils would be established in each of the eight
selected provinces, to review the work in their respective provinces and to
provide advice on the work of the two Implementation Units. The Prim#=
Teacher Training Schools of the eight selected provinces would also assist in
the implementation of the component. These various bodies are described in
the following paragraphVi.
26.         Steering Committee.  A Steering Committee would be formed to
provide advice and guidance in the implementation of the component. The
Steering Committee would be comprised of:
(a) the National Project Manager, Primary Education Project;
(b) the Assistant Manager, Ethnic Minority Component;
(c) an Accountant;
(d) the Primary Education Advisor, UNICEF; and
(e) the Applied Linguistics Advisor, World Vision.
The Steering Committee would meet informally and often, according to
operational procedures agreed during the first six months after Project
signing. The RCEME would function as a secretariat for the Steering Committee
and would continue to provide expertise and overall staff support and
assistance for implementation of the component throughout the Project period.
27.         National Advisory Council for Ethnic Minority Education.  A
National Advisory Council for Ethnic Minority Education (NACEME) would also be
established. This council would provide an opportunity for other institutions
and individuals with special interest in or responsibilities related to the
component to provide guidance and advice to the Assistant Project Manager for
this component and to coordinate their various inputs under the component.
The NACEME would be comprised of at least the following members:
(a) the Assistant Project Manager for the Textbook Component;
(b) the Assistant Project Manager for the Construction Component;
(c) the Assistant Project Manager for Administration and Finance;



-89-                    AMSEX 6
P.ge 9 of 21
(d) the Primary Education Advisor (UNICEF);
(e) the Applied Linguistics Advisor (World Vision);
(f) the Ethnic Minority Literacy Advisor (World Vision);
(g) national specialists in ethnic minority education; and
(h) national specialists in ethnic minority languages.
The NACEME should meet at least once a quarter to review progress in
implementing the component, to review implementation plans for the next
quarter, and to ensure that their various inputs would be provided in a timely
manner.
28.         Implementation Units.  Two regional Implementation Units would be
formed to carry out and oversee the day-to-day implementation of this
component. These units would divide their responsibility according to
geography and language groups, with one Implementation Unit located in the
North and one in the South.
29.         The Ethnic Minority ImpIementation Unit for the North would be
established in Hanoi and would have responsibility over four languages--Thai,
Muong, Nung, and Hmong--in five provinces--Son La, Hoa Binh, Lang Son, Yen
Bai, and Lao Cai--in the northern part of the country. The Implementation
Unit for the North would be comprised of the following members:
(a) the Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic Minorities/
Mountainous Areas Education Component;
(b) the Applied Linguistics Advisor (World Vision);*
(c) a part-time expatriate Specialist in Sociolinguistic
Surveying, who would also work with the Implementation Team
for the South;*
(d) four national Sociolinguistic Researchers;*
(e) a part-time expatriate Specialist in Curricula for Ethnic
Minority Children;*
(f) a part-time expatriate Specialist in Indigenous Authoring,
who would also work with the Implementation Team for the
South;*
(g) a part-time national Advisor on Indigenous Authoring;*
(h) four part-time expatriate Specialists in Ethnic Minority
Languages;*
(i) four part-time Local Linguistic Consultants;*
(j) the Language Team for the Thai language;



-.90-                    AEX 6
Page 10 of 21
(k) the Language Team for the Muong language;
(1) the Language Team for the Nung language;
(m) the Language Team for the Hmong language;
(n) a full-time executive secretary trained in the use of a
common word-processing program, who would prepare written
reports in Vietnamese;
(o) a full-time accountant, who would keep the Implementation
Unit's financial accounts as well as sit on the Steering
Committee,
(p) a part-time computer programmer, who would assist in
preparing programs for keeping the statistical records on
ethnic minority education and ethnolinguistic work;
(q) a full-time person trained in statistics and in the use of a
common data-processing program, who would keep the
statistical records for the Implementation Unit for the
North;
(r) a part-time computer technician trained in repairing
computers; and
(s) a full-time driver.
* indicates that Terms of Reference for this position have been developed
and appear in Annex 15 of the SAR.
30.         The Ethnic Minority Implementation Unit for the South would be
established in the city of Nha TrangV in the central part of Viet Nam, with
responsibility over four languages--Jarai, Bahnar, Cham, and Sedang--in three
provinces--Gia Lai, Kon Tum, and Ninh Thuan--in the central and southern parts
of the councry. The Implementation Unit for the South would be comprised of
the following members:
(a) the Deputy Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic
Minorities/Mountain Areas Education Component;
(b) the Ethnic Minority Literacy Advisor funded by World Visi ..;*
if    Although not in one of the eight targeted provinces, Nha Trang is
centrally located and within easy distance of the three targeted provinces in
the South of Viet Nam. In addition, a Preparatory College for Ethnic Minority
Children exists in Nha Trang. Its student body (post-secondary students who
are preparing for university studies) and some of its staff and administrators
are drawn from many different ethnic minorities from all parts of Viet Nam and
can provide advice, guidance, and contacts to the staff of the Implementation
Unit for the South.



-91-                   AMNe  6-
Page 11 of 21
(c) a part-time expatriate Specialist in Sociolinguistic
Surveying, who.would also work with the Implementation Team
for the North;*
(d) four national Sociolinguistic Researchers;*
(e) a part-time expatriate Specialist in Indigenous Authoring,
who would also work with the Implementation Team for the
North;*
(f) a part-time national Advisor on Indigenous Authoring;*
(g) four part-time expatriate Specialists in Ethnic Minority
Languages;*
(h) four part-time Local Linguistic Consultants;*
(i) the Language Team for the Jarai language;
(j) the Language Team for the Bahnar language;
(k) the Language Team for the Cham language;
(1) the Language Team for the Sedang language;
(m) a full-time secretary trained in the use of a common word-
processing program, who would prepare written reports in
Vietnamese;
(n) a full-time accountant, who would keep the Implementation
Unit's financial accounts and sit on the Steering Committee;
(o) a part-time computer programmer, who would assist in
preparing programs for keeping the statistical records on
ethnic minority education and ethnolinguistic work;
(p) a full-time person trained in statistics and in the use of a
common data-processing program, who would keep the
statistical records for the Implementation Unit for the
South;
(q) a part-time computer technician trained in repairing
computers; and
(r) a driver.
31.         Language Teams. Language Teams would be formed for all activities
related to each of the eight languages selected. Each language team would be
advised by a part-time expatriate Specialist in Ethnic Minority Languages and
would include two national Core Language Cadres for each of the eight ethnic
minority languages selected. The Language Teams for the Muong, Hmong, Bahnar,



-92-                     ANNE 6
Page 12 of 21
and Sedang languages would be assisted by part-time national Mother-Tongue
Lexicographers (terms of reference attached in Annex 15).
32.         As described above, four Language Teams would be included in the
Implementation Unit for the North, and four would be included in the
Implementation Unit for the South. Each member of the eight Language Teams
would be responsible for the following activities: (i) assist in the
production of instructional materials in his/her native language, (ii) assist
in the testing and revision of materials, (iii) improve his/her individual
skills in mother-tongue literacy teaching and the teaching of Vietnamese as
the national language, (iv) assume leadership in the Teacher Training Phase,
and (v) monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the program in the schools
selected to benefit from this component.
33.         Province Advisory Councils.  Province Advisory Councils would be
established in each of the eight provinces selected. These councils would be
comprised of ethnic minority leaders and representatives, representatives of
the Provincial Education Service, a representative from each District
Education Service where project activities are being carried out, a
representative of the province's Primary Teacher Training School, local ethnic
minority specialists from the province, and primary-school teachers with
experience in teaching in ethnic minority areas. These Province Advisory
Councils would meet regularly, at least once a quarter, to (a) help explain
all project activities to' the communities included in the project, (b) serve
as a vehicle for expressing the views of the communities, including the ethnic
minority populations, to the education authorities, (c) review progress of the
component in their respective province, (d) provide advice and guidance to
their respective Implementation Unit, (e) coordinate their inputs to project
implementation, and (f) assist in selecting the schools where the project
would be implemented.
34.         Primarv Teacher Training Schools.  In addition to sending a
representative to its respective Province Advisory Council, the Primary
Teacher Training School in each of the eight provinces would select three
staff to participate part-time in the implementation of the component. Each
of these persons would be-come familiar with multi-grade teaching, mother-
tongue literacy teaching, and the teaching of Vietnamese as the national
language. They would assist in logistical matters and in coordinating with
the teachers and schools in each province and district and would serve as a
link between the respective Implementation Unit and the selected schools.
They would also take the lead in organizing and carrying out the teacher
training to be provided in the Teacher Training Phase.
Phasing of Activities
35.         It is anticipated that the implementation of the component would
be carried out in six phases, as follows:
(a) an Organizational Phase;
(b) a Materials Development. Testing. and Publication Phase;
(c) a Teacher Training Phase;



-93-                    ANNEX 6
Page 13 of 21
(d) a Classroom Imnlementation Phase;
(e) a Construction Phase; and
(f) an Evaluation Phase.
Although these phases would begin sequentially, some of them would overlap in
implementation. For example, the Teacher Training Phase would begin (with
training of teachers for multi-grade teaching situations) before the Materials
Development Phase had been completed. Since, however, the six phases comprise
distinct activities, they are described separately. The remainder of this
annex suggests the tentative content of the six phases. This content should
be reviewed and finalized by the Steering Committee by December 31. 1993.
The Qreanizational Phase
36.         The Organizational Phase has already begun and is being
implemented by RCEME, other units of the MOET, UNICZF, and World Vision. In
addition to selecting eight provinces and eight ethnic minorities, carrying
out surveys, and undertaking community mobilization activities, RCEHE, UNICEF,
and World Vision are preparing a detailed implementation plan for this
component.  This draft should indicate inter-alia:  (i) any changes in scope
proposed since the original discussions, (ii) activities underway or
completed, (iii) the office space to be used in Hanoi and Nha Trang, and (iv)
specifics of the activities to be funded by the Government. As noted, UNICEF
and some World Vision staff are in place. In addition World Vision plans to
provide assistance with some of the following items: (a) two vehicles, one
for each Implementation Unit, (b) microcomputers, and (c) other office
equipment. As noted, terms of reference have been prepared for all national
staff and expatriate technical advisors. Finally, a number of national staff
have already been identified who will participate in implementation.
37.         During the Organizational Phase, the MOET should complete the
selection of those staff to work full-time on the implementation of the
component. The names and profiles of these staff should be sent to the World
Bank for review and approval by December 31. 1993. In addition, the RCEME
should proceed with the establishment of the Steering Committee and the NACENE
and initiate identification of the various expatriate technical assistants.
38.         Also during the Organizational Phase, a part-time national
Educational Materials Researcher (terms of reference attached) would catalog
existing literacy and other instructional materials available in the eight
ethnic minority languages selected. This work, which is expected to take
about four months, would be carried out in Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City, Nha Trang,
the eight provinces selected, and other areas of the country where such
materials might exist.
39.         After the completion of the ethnolinguistic surveys and an
analysis of the data collected during the surveys, 40 experimental primary
schools would be selected, five for each of the eight ethnic minority
languages included in this component. These schools would have the following
characteristics:



-94-                    ANNEX 6
Page 14 of 21
(a) they would be located within one of the eight provinces
selected for the component;
(b) they would include a very high representation from one of the
eight selected ethnic minority languages;
(c) their facilities would be very rudimentary, particularly
temporary thatch-roofed structures ithout walls;
(d) the population they serve would be in the lowest 10% in terms
of per capita income;
(e) they would consist of a central school and one or more
affiliate schools which were more than 5 kilometers from the
central school and which could not offer all five grades,
either because of insufficient physical space or because of
the absence of a teacher skilled in multi-grade teaching;
(f) they would be accessible by road; and
(g) their staff would be willing to participate in the project.
40.         Also during the Organizational Phase, the 16 Core Language Cadres
would par.l.cipate in workshops on mother-tongue literacy teaching and teaching
Vietnamese as a national language, conducted by the Applied Linguistics
Advisor and the Ethnic Minority Literacy Advisor. The Core Language Cadres
would receive assistance from the eight expatriate Specialists in Ethnic
Minority Languages in planning (a) the preparation, testing, and evaluation of
materials for mothar-tongue literacy teaching and for teaching Vietnamese as
the national language and (b) the preparation of training courses for primary-
school teachers in these areas.
41.         The executive secretaries and the persons trained in statistics
and in the use of a data-processing program would organize semtnars in basic
statistics and data-processing for the staff in the two Implementation Units,
the eight Primary Teacher Training Schools, and the Provincial and District
Education Services who would be responsible for monitoring the project and
preparing the reports. Money would be made available for taking the courses
in basic statistics and data-processing provided by the Computing Center at
the National Institute for Education Science in Hanoi.
42.         The MOET has already undertaken school mapping in a number of
districts in the eight selected provinces, using a methodology introduced
during project preparation. The preparation of district school maps, one for
every district in each of the eight provinces included in this Component,
would continue and would be completed within the first two years of the
project. In each of the eight mountainous provinces included in the project,
at least one District Education Service should complete a detailed school map
before negotiations of the IDA Credit. By January 1, 1996,Y detailed school
maps should have been prepared for the remaining districts of these eight
f           Or about two years after Credit effectiveness.



-95-                     ANNEX 6
Page 15 of 21
provinces. This work should be done with the help of the respective
Provincial Education Service under the guidance of the MOET.
43.         Each district school map would show all schools in the district.
For each school, both the central school and all affiliate schools (if any)
should be shown. The school map should also show the existing distribution of
pupils, classrooms, and teachers at each central and affiliate school, and any
hamlets with a critical mass of primary-school-aged children and no school.
Each school map should be accompanied by related education statistics:
enrollment data by grade and age, as well as information on the number of
primary-school-aged children in the catchment area not in school, for each
ethnic group in the catchment area.
44.         Using this school-mapping methodology already being used by the
MOET, the principals of the 40 experimental schools would also prepare
individual school maps of their schools. The principals would attend a one-
day workshop on school mapping organized by the MOET before beginning this
exercise. In addition to the information customarily shown on a school map,
these 40 maps would show the proposed distribution of pupils, classrooms, and
teachers after introducing multi-grade teaching at the central school and/or
in one or more of the affiliates, and the proposed distribution of pupils,
classrooms, and teachers at the end of the project. The 40 principals would
also complete the education statistics which accompany a school map. On the
basis of the school maps, the 40 principals would each select a teacher in one
of the affiliates who would introduce multi-grade teaching (and, later,
mother-tongue literacy teaching and the teaching of Vietnamese as the national
language) on an experimental basis.
45.         Finally, during this Organizational Phase the Assistant Project
Manager would conduct two one-week seminars, one in the North and one in the
South, with all the key staff who would participate in the implementation of
the component and would assign responsibilities and deadlines.
The Materials Develo=ment. Testing. and Publication Phase
46.         This phase would start during the firsW year of the project,
preferably at the beginning of the school year. Materials would be developed
sequentially, as follows: (a) during the first year of the project:
materials for multi-grade teaching; (b) during the second and subsequent years
of the project: materials for mother-tongue literacy teaching; and (c) during
the third and subsequent years of the project: materials, mostly diglotted,
for teaching Vietnamese as the national language and for the transition from
literacy training in ethnic minority languages to instruction in Vietnamese.
47.         The materials for multi-grade teaching would be supplementary to,
rather than replacements for, the existing textbooks. They are intended to
assist children in learning the curriculum and facilitate the work of the
teacher. They should have (a) explanations which are not in the normal
textbooks but which are necessary for children in multi-grade classrooms, (b)
additional exercises and practice activities which children in multi-grade
classrooms can carry out on their own, and (c) answers and feedback, so that
children know if they are doing the work correctly. It is expected that
children would follow the regular textbooks but would also have these mater-



-96-                     mm  6
Page 16 of 21
ials to supplement and expand on the subject matter presented in the regular
textbooks. The materials for multi-grade teaching, a few lessons at a time,
would be tested and revised throughout the first year of the project. The
revision of each few lessons would provide inputs for tha revision of the next
few lessons. A final check for accuracy and consistency of the entire set of
materials would be done during the first workshop for training teachers for
multi-grade teaching; printing of the final manuscripts would be completed
after the first workshop. Prior to the final printing, limited reproduction
by photocopy would be done until adequate testing and revision had been
completed.
48.         The Chief of UNICEF's Education Program would prepare a very
simple teacher's guide for the organization of classrooms in a multi-grade
teaching setting. The guide would include:
(a) a chapter on how to organize the use of the materials, i.e.,
how to make one of the pupils responsible for keeping the key
to the materials cupboard and for checking when something is
used;
(b) a chapter on keeping records of pupils' progress (work
progress charts);
(c) a chapter on how to get older children to help the younger
ones when they have difficulties;
(d) a chapter on how to plan lessons;
(e) a chapter on how to evaluate children's progress; and
(f) a chapter on how to obtain help from the commuity, with
examples of how teachers in other schools have done it.
UNICEF would distribute this guide to teachers in the 40 experimental schools,
review it with them, and correct it with them.
49.         Some of the materials for mother-tongue literacy teaching and for
teaching Vietnamese as the national language would be developed during
workshops conducted by the 16 Core Language Cadres with assistance from other
speakers of the eight languages selected and under the guidance of the
expatriate advisors, including the Applied Linguistics Advisor, the Ethnic
Minority Literacy Advisor, the Specialist in Curricula for Ethnic Minority
Children, and the eight language-specific Specialists in Ethnic Minority
Languages.



-97-
Page 17 of 21
The Teacher TraininU Phase
50.         Training of teadcers for multi-rade teaching situations.  This
training would be done in three practical Teacher Training Workshops, the
first lasting four weeks, the second lasting one week, and the third also
lasting one week. The first workshop, for one teacher each from the 40
experimental schools, would take place during the second year of the project,
before the start of the school year (about August). The second workshop would
take place three months after the first workshop (about November); the third
workshop would take place at the end of the school year (about May). These
workshops would be held at the eight selected Primary Teacher Training Schools
and would focus 2nls on the very practical things that a teacher needs to do
in a classroom offering multi-grade teaching. They would not deal with
subject matter but only with the simple tasks that need to be done to achieve
success in a multi-grade teaching situation. The series would be repeated,
for 160 teachers, in the third year (first and second workshops) and fourth
year (third workshop) of the project. A short summary of these three
workshops follows:
(a) In the first workshop, teachers would be given all the
materials produced for multi-grade teaching. They would
receive hands-on training to master the use of these mate-
rials. They would also be taught how to undertake a number
of activities designed to help them organize their activities
and monitor children's progress, including (i) lesson plans
for the first month of classes, (ii) an inventory of all the
material received, and space to indicate it is used; (iii) an
example of a pupil Work Progress Chart;!' and (iv) techniques
for encouraging older children in the school or in the
community to come to school every day and help the smaller
children who need assistance with their exercises.
(b) Teachers would bring to the Second workshop a list of the
good things that had happened in their schools, as well as a
list of difficulties encountered, and would try, with other
teachers, to identify the problems that need help from the
authorities, those requiring assistance from the specialists,
and those needing help from the community. Working together,
the teachers would prepare individual plans to obtain such
assistance.
(c) The third workJsh2 would be an evaluation workshop.  Teachers
would make recommendations for how to carry out the work in
new schools implementing multi-grade teaching in the future.
They would review the list of materials they had received and
would suggest which ones were not needed and which ones would
a'          A bulletin board with all the children's names on the left-hand
side and the chapters of the arithmetic and language books at the top. When a
child finishes the exercises in one chapter, he/she puts a dot on the chart in
the appropriate box. This chart permits the teacher to keep track of which
pupils need help.



-98-
Page 18 of 21
be modified.  They would also bring their pupil work progress
charts and compare them with those of the other teachers.
51.         Training of teachers i; the use of mother-tongue literacy
materials. This training, to be given in each of the eight Primary Teacher
Training Schools, would begin in the third year of the project, before the
beginning of the school year, with an initial one-month session for the 40
teachers, one from each of the 40 experimental schools, who had already been
trained in the use of mu'ti-grade teaching techniques and ziterials. This
initial training in the use of the mother-tongue literacy materials developed
during the second year the project would be followed by a one-week upgrading
workshop in each successive year of the project. In the fourth year of the
project, an additional 160 teachers would be trained in an initial one-month
session, again followed by one-week upgrading workshops in each successive
year of the project.
52.         Training of teachers in the teaching of Vietnamese as the national
language. This training, to be given at one site in the North and one in the
South, would take place in the fourth year of the project, before the
beginning of the school year, and would consist of a one-month session for the
40 teachers, one from each of the 40 experimental schools, who had already
been trained in the use of multi-grade teaching techniques and materials and
in the use of mother-tongue literacy materials. This course would include
training in the use of the Vietnamese language learning materials developed in
the third year of the project. Emphasis would be placed on oral speaking,
drills, games, and the situational use of Vietnamese. Attention would also be
given to reading and writing as well as grammar and acquisition of vocabulary.
In the fifth year of the project, an additional 160 teachers would be trained
in an initial one-month session.
The Classroom Imnlementation Phase
53.         The Classroom Implementation Phase would be divided into two
parts: an Experimental Part involving 40 schools, and an Expansion Part
during which the experiment would be expanded to an additional 160 schools.
54.         Experimental Part of the Classroom Implementation Phase.  A total
of 40 classrooms, one in each of the 40 experimental schools, would be
selected and provided with the materials for multi-grade teaching (to be
developed during the first year of the project) and, as they become ready,
materials for mother-tongue literacy teaching (to be developed during the
second year of the project) and materials for the teaching of Vietnamese as
the national language (to be developed during the third year of the project).
Each classroom should have about 15 to 20 children altogether, of whom most or
all should be ethnic minority children, and might include children at the
First, Second, and Third Grade levels, so that the teacher might put her
training to use and gain experience in teaching both in a multi-grade
situation and in bilingual education.
55.         The Experimental Part of the Classroom Implementation Phase would
begin in the second year of the project with the introduction of multi-grade
teaching tochniques and materials in 40 classrooms, one in each of the 40
expe.:imental schools. In the third year of the project, after the 40 teachers



-99-                    AM    6
Page 19 of 21
had received training in the use of materials for mother-tongue literacy
teaching, they would receive these materials and introduce mother-tongue
literacy teaching in the 40 classrooms. In the fourth year of the project,
after the 40 teachers had received training in the teaching of Vietnamese as
the national language, they would receive the appropriate materials and would
introduce the teaching of Vietnamese as the national language. As time
passed, additional teachers in the original 40 schools could begin to
introduce the new techniques in their classrooms by observing those teachers
who were already using them; for this purpose, by the fifth year of the
project, materials would be provided to all teachers in the 40 schools, so
that they could introduce the new techniques.
56.         The original 40 experimental classrooms would begin the bilingual
portion of their program in the beginning grade only. In that grade, all
instruction would be in the mother-tongue language, except for a conversation
class in spoken Vietnamese. During the next two grades, there would be a
gradual transition to Vietnamese as the language of instruction. There would
be regular supervision of the teachers and further in-service training
workshops for updating and for the introduction of the second- and third-grade
transition materials.
57.         The principals of the 40 experimental schools would keep detailed
records on attendance and student progress, according to a format furnished by
UNICEF.  This information, plus the insights gained during the training of
teachers for multi-grade teaching situations (the three workshops described
earlier), would be used to plan the expansion of the Classroom Implementation
Phase into 160 additional schools (following paragraph).
58.         Expansion Part of the Classroom Implementation Phase.  During tha
third year of the project, the program would expand beyond the original 40
schools. In each of the experimental areas, four additional schools would be
identified. These 160 schools would be selected according to the same
criteria used to select the original 40. An additional prerequisite for
initiating activities in any district would be the preparation of the district
school map and the information specified for all schools in the district. One
teacher from each of the 160 new schools would be trained in multi-grade
teaching in three workshops, the first of which would be held in the third
year of the project, before the beginning of the school year. These 160
teachers would receive training in mother-tongue literacy teaching in the
fourth year of the project, and training in the teaching of Vietnamese as the
national language in the fifth year of the project. They would also visit the
40 original schools to learn by observing those teachers who were already
teaching in an experimental classroom. Additional teachers in the 160 schools
could begin to introduce the new techniques in their classrooms by observing
those teachers who were already using them; for this purpose, by the sixth
year of the project, materials would be provided to all teachers in the 160
schools, so that they could introduce the new techniques.



-100-
Page 20 of 21
The Construction Phase
59.         Multi-grade teaching would be introduced In the original 40
classrooms during the second year of the project. At the end of that school
year. In the third year of the project, an evaluation would be made of the 40
experimental schools and of the extent to which they had been successful in
introducing multi-grade teaching.  Mhis evaluation would be concurrent with
the third teacher-training workshop for multi-grade teaching. Success in
introducing multi-grad. teaching would need to be demonstrated before
proceeding with construction activities.
60.         In preparation for the evaluation and for the tiird workshop, the
principals of the 40 experimental schools would redo their school maps,
showing how many classrooms were now used, how many grades they now offered,
places where multi-grade teaching was needed, and the condition of existing
facilities. These maps would be presented to the RCEKE and would be used to
select the Initial construction sites for the project. Construction would
start in the third year of the project where an experimental classroom had
functioned well for a year. Construction would begin in up to 40 schools
(assuming multl-grade teaching had been successfully introduced in all 40).
In the fourth year of the project, this process would be repeated for the 160
schools included in the Expansion Part of the Classroom Implementation Phase.
In the fifth and sixth year of the project, construction would continue at
other schools selected according to the same criteria or at other sites having
population clusters Including at least 20 children aged six through eleven who
lived more than 5 kilometers from an existing school or affiliate.
61.         As mentioned above, the Construction Phase would include, first,
the repair and rehabilitation of existing classrooms, the replacement of
seriously dilapidated classrooms which are beyond repair, and the construction
of now classrooms, if necessary, in sites selected according to agreed
criteria. It would also include the provision of latrines and water systems,
as necessary, in all schools benefiting from civil works under this component.
Finally, It would include the provision of essential school furniture
(including desks, chairs, blackboards, and storage cupboards) in all schools
benefiting from civil works under this component.
The Evaluation Phase
62.         Global information on the impact of inputs provided under the
component would be gained through the National Sample-Based Education
Assessment being supported under the Project. Under this activity, an
Assessment Specialist and a Statistical Data Analyst would visit Viet Nam
regularly during the first through the sixth years of the project to assist
the MOET in carrying out national assessments of primary-school children in
Viet Nam. The exercise would assess educational achievement among children
th-oughout Viet Nam in two subjects, Vietnamese and mathematics, and in two
gX -  - Gradt  3 and Grade 5. The sample 'ould include pupils from the eight
ethnic minorities aselected for inclusion in the component. The assessment
would be carried out every two years, i.e., three times during the
implementation of the Project. The first assessment would take place at the
end of the first year of the project, i.e., before the pedagogical aspects of



-101-
ANNEX 6
Page 21 of 21
the component had been introduced, and would therefore provide information on
the pre-project situation among these eight ethnic groups. The second and
third assessments, to take place at the end of the third and fifth years of
the project, would provide information on the impact of the pedagogical
interventions in some of the schools benefiting from the component as well as
control data from ethnic minority schools in the same areas not benefiting
from the component.
63.         In addition, more specific information on the impact of inputs
provided under the component would be gained through the Monitoring and
Evaluation Activity supported under the Project. Training, software,
hardware, and limited expatriate expertise provided under this component would
enable Vietnamese education managers to establish a systematic capacity to
monitor and evaluate the progress of government programs and projects in
primary education towards educational goals and objectives, including the
qualitative and quantitative impact of the component. An Assistant Project
Manager for Project Monitoring and Evaluation (part-time) would be respGnsible
for collecting information on project achievements, including information on
the progress of the component. This information would be reviewed (together
with other information on progress in project implementation) every year at
the Annual Review in October and would also be used as an input to the annual
work plan. An initial evaluation of multi-grade teaching would form part of
the Mid-Term Review scheduled for 1997, and a final evaluation of multi-grade
teaching, mother-tongue literacy teaching, and the teaching of Vietnamese as
the national language would be undertaken as an input to the Final Review at
the completion of the project. The results of these evaluations would guide
further work on ethnic minority education in Viet Nam, whether financed by the
Government or by external donors.



-102-
80CIALLST REPUBUC OF MET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT                       Page 1 of 1
Dlmensional Coordination of Classrooms
(Based on 1.60 x 0.8 module)
Net
Desk   No. d     Net    Area m2
Desk Rows    1    2    3    4    5            Rows  Places  Area m2  Per Place
6.00 meters                                5       30      25.80     0.89
/    5.20                                        4      24      22.36     0.93
i.40                                       3       18      18.92     1.05
7    3.60                                        2      12      15.48      1.29
/--2.00    \
Module 1 .6 x 0.8)
n°   n°   0 n°                   30 place classroom (MounWns)
0    0              U       ° U° U° = 25.80 m2 net
+ 9.00 m2 conidor
O    O  ° n              4.30          = 34.80 m2 @ US$55
0    0[J [o Jo                              = US$2,105 per classroom
Blackboard                                                   (22.73 million Dong)
Entry
Corridor                                               Net
Desk   No. of    Net    Area m2
Desk Rows    1    2    3    4    5            Rows  Places  Area m2  Per Place
/    6.00 meters                                5       40      35.40     0.89
/    5620                     _                  4      32      30.68     0.96
I    4.40                                       3       24      25.96     1.08
,' _  3.60                                       2      16      2124      1.33
/    2.00    \-
0O  0O llo   0O  0O                         40 dRace classroom (Cities)
M  \  10  0|o  0.j°   0    0                   35.40 m2 net
0 1                                                        + 9.00 m2 corridor
Li 1° HHHO HH 0  00 O                                  = 44.40 m2 @ US$65
JO  Jo    0o[j     Jo                         = US$3,175 per dassroom
Blackboard                                    5.90           (34.29 million Dong)
32 place cassroom (Delta)
=30.68 m2 net
i°   o i°      o 0                          + 9.00 m2 corridor
0    0[L;        ° °   0]° {JO - = 39.68 m2 @ US$55
Enty                                                    = US$2,182 per ctassroom
(23.57 milaon Dong)
CLASMODI.WKI           Corridor                                                      sep,u



-103-                           ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 1
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCTION PROJECT
INFORMATION TO BE INCLpDED IN SCHOOL MAPS
Under the project, detailed school maps would be prepared for each
district selected to receive civil works under the project. These maps would
indicate each school site and not only each school1'; i.e., for each school,
the map should show both the central school site and all affiliate school
sites. The statistics accompanying each school map should indicate:
(i)   The name of each school and, on a separate line, the name of each
school site (central and affiliate) belonging to that school;
(ii) The number of classes and the enrollment, by grade, at each s2h2ol
site (central and affiliate);
(iLi) The number of teachers, by grade, at each school site;
(iv) The number of children net in school aged 0-5, aged 6-10, and aged
11-14, at each site;
(v)   At each site, the number of classrooms in good condition, the
number needing repairs, and the number needing to be replaced
completely; and
(f)   The distance between the school site and the closest complete
school (i.e., a school site offering all five grades).
l'    In Viet Nam, a 'school" is defined as a central school and its affiliates,
if any; i.e., there may be several sites where children attend classes, but if
all are under the control of one principal, the several sites together are
considered only one school.



-104-
Page 1 of 2
SOCiAUST REPUBUC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
School BuildinM Proaram Needs and Prolect Proposals In the Five Mapor Cities
.No.of a  . Of                                               No Of
Eooll.  8.iroli.  Nof @    Clew-  MAW.
mon    mont  C;loo          room e , m    mom  Cousilon of b&Wg  P brojtdW Olewon   rooms
Dist 1S02    198- needed  rdeded  5E   Swpx.    .-6elds                                   After
Cy    't9815at  -ooo'  'coo'   is.. F e 11988    Md.)                     -                 p   IM
Hand      1   17.50   19.70    493    aso       248   (48)  123    70    55    48    70    55    296
2   25.36   28.56     714    428      507    79   383      0   t44      0     0    e5      428
3   25.74   28.90     725    435    375   (60)  250    46    79    60    46    79          435
4   30.89   34.78     870    522    600    78   375    41   184    (0)   41   106    522
5   33.20   37.38    935    881       640    79   214    67   359       0     0   uS9      573
6   31.62   35.80    890   5ON        435   (99   303    16    56    99    16    56        53
7   23.68   26.67    667    400    443    43   212   119   112          0   119    69      400
8   30.67   34.53    866      518    402  (116)  225   119    58   116   11s 58            616
9   34.13   38.43    961      577     468  (109)  183   175   110   109   175   110    57n
Subtot      952.79  28464    .t116              a  Itin '4118''''f   0    053 1.157   431    6'6   57 4-232-a
HOChc     1   25.37   28.57      714    429      314  (115)  130    93    91   115    93    91        429
Mlnh      2   21.38   24.07      602     81      253  (108)  148    85    22  108    85    22    361
City      3     13.2  14.78      369             1 191   (31)  145    14    32    31    14    32      222
4   21.60   24.33     608    "38      320   (45)  217    53    50    45    53    50        365
5   22.04   24.82    620      372    269   (83    88   128    73    83   128    73         372
6   2628   29.59      740    444      216  (M2    138    29    51   228    29    51        444
7   18.78   21.15    529    317       286   (31)  180    84    22    31    84    22        317
8   19.72   22.21     555    339    307   (M   194    52    61    26    52    61           333
9   37.37   42.08   1.052    '63      489  (142)  228   177    84   142   177    84        631
10   14.37   16.18    405   -243    187   (86)  139    27    21    58    27    21           243
11   30.08   33.87     647     58      238  (270   140    58    40   270    58    40        508
12   19.67   22.15     554      89a    167  (165)   29    81    57   165    81    57        33
13    254   38.64      916     56      470   (80)  290   135    45    80   135    45    -50
14   3232   36.39      910     546    297   (49)  122   150    28   249   150    25         56f
15   28.00   31.52    788      473    399   (74)  243   120    3        7.4   120    36     473
16   14.93   16.81     420    252    255       3    34   107   t14    16   107    95        252
17    7.07    7.96    199      118      74   (45)   31    31    12    45    31    12    1t19
18   36.02   40.56   1,014    60       377  (231)  230   121    28   231   121    26    408
....ot:     420.93  473.6 1A241 "    J7 2 i   12:          :                       1t4    *   7.105
Hal       1   16.49  18.57       464 -27        250   (29  135    80    35    28    80    35          278
Phong     2   15.67   17.65    441       968    151  (114)  107    36       8   114    36      8      265
3   10.30   11.60    290    174       114   (6)  101       5     8    60      5      8     174
4    7.24    8.15     204    f12       87   (35)   41    28    20    35    26    20        122
5    3.07    3.45      a6 s     2      43    (9)   27      0    16      9     0    16       52
6   21.14   23.80     595    357      285   (72)  214    61    10    72    61    10    357
7   15.49   17.45     436     269     200   (82   110    78    12    62    78    12    262
8   19.85   22.35     559     5       272   (63)  1865   59    28    63    59    28        M35
9   23.73   26.72    668      401     311   (90)  206    87    16    90    87    16    401
10   33.62   37.86    946      588    468  (102)  121   215   130   102   215   130    866
11   23.18   26.10     652   'i1       284  (107)  207    61    16   107    61    16    391
12    2.86    3.22      81    .4 0      70    22     9    31    30    (9)   31    17         48
Subtot_    192.93. 214.92  75M*3   A        AM1!I    .6 79    2                *    79 #
Hue            31.10   35.02     675       5    436   ()    14   328    96    87   328    96          526
D Nang         45.81   51.58   1,289     74      66   (109)  322   126   217   108   126   217        774
* d Tt    4                     ... :::... ...   .
Clan Ske -                   40
cleiclanroom Rd* -         60%
CMTESI.WK1                                                                                   Sep243



-105-                                     AM  9
Page 2 of 2
SOCIAST FlREPUBLC OF VET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Ct Works CaW aos In the Fiv MlorC
asreoms_                                       NM          TOt
Mty           New Add`l      To Repair   To PRplalw_   NMw Ld*e    Wte Sysems   Base
%   Nmbr  %   Numbr  %   Numbr   %   Numbw    %   Numbr  Cods
Hanoi
Prjt  Need               431            we             067           ,543             77    5.7
Proposd          0%        0   20%      117  20%       191   25%      366   25%       19    0.5
Ho Chi Mlinh City
Proected Need           1,995          1,545           643          2368             119   11.62
Ptoposed         0%        0   20%      309  20%       169  25%       597   25%       30    1.12
Hai Phong
Projected Need           734            739            316          1,055            53    4.7
Proposed         0%        0   20%      148  20%        63  25%       264   25%       13    0.47
Hue
Projeoted N"d             67            328             so           424              21    1.17
Proposed         0%        0   20%       68  20%        19  25%       106   25%        8    0.18
DaNug
Projected Need           109            126            217           343              17    1.29
Proposed         0%        0   20%       25  20%        43  25%       86  25%          4    0.19
Totas INos.
Prieoled Ned            3.350          3.324         2.2                 24.51
Proposed-                  Ql            =I            48           1.438 
LU        L-             gmU            gm  211
_ _ _ _            _ _                  'S                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Uit Costs In US W'000               Avg. Number f Cmrooms per Scol-          20
FadUlty           Rate                                    II 8k I-             401
Cassooms
Repair           1.59
Replace/New      3.16
New              3.18
Ladlnee           0.10
Water Sysems      1.00
CWCMES.WKI                                                                              8 3



-106-                          ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CIVIL WORKS IN THE MEKONG DELTA
1.          One-fourth of all Vietnamese live in the Mekong Delta, making it
one of the most densely populated regions of the country. During project
preparation, the following agreed criteria were used to identify potential
sites in the Mekong Delta which would benefit from the construction program:
1.    Schools so seriously dilapidated that they are hazardous.
2.    Impermanent, low-lying schools that are flooded during a
substantial part of the school year.
3.    Rudimentary schools, particularly temporary thatch-roofed
structures without walls.
4.    Incomplete affiliate schools which are more than 5 kilometers from
an existing full primary school and cannot offer all five grades
for want of space.
5.   Schools using triple-shifting because of insufficient classroom
space.
6.    Population clusters living more than 5 kilometers from a school
that include at least 30 children aged 6-11.
7.    Other temporary or thatch-roofed structures in low-income areas.
2.          Construction choices for the Mekong Delta would be based on these
criteria. Accordingly, about 1,998 classrooms would be repaired and 2,973
would be replaced/expanded. This represents 18% of total need for repair and
replacement/expansion in each project province in the Mekong delta. Care
would be taken to provide flood-resistant classrooms as necessary and
technical assistance would be provided to develop a maintenance manual
appropriate for schools in the Mekong Delta. Suitable furniture (including
desks, chairs, blackboards, and storage cupboards) would be provided to
project schools where it does not already exist. Since most schools in the
Mekong Delta are located in the midst of areas of standing water during the
rainy season, special attention has to be given to health and environmental
considerations. Technical assistance would be provided under the project to
help design environmentally appropriate technologies and procedures for: (a)
construction and maintenance of about 5,000 suitable latrines (18% of need),
(b) provision of safe drinking water at about 500 sites (18t of need), and (c)
disposal of garbage. All schools benefiting from civil works under the
project also would be provided training in their maintenance.



-107-                                      A°
Page 2 of 3
SOCIALIST F;EPUBUC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
School Bulding Progm am Needs and Polect Propos  In te Mekong Delta
-aetufU  frOuS-  tie of  Clow   CI..   ofasa.                                           OsAW
Mm*i           OWA 0sUa  #@fl#  no"W  'mom    Oo4ndMWO    4SIf   Proje                ..rowom  om.,
000'   -0W      1-66  ..2~L  .~mi  *. oood  Pow                     :
Vinh LonwTra Vinh  289.03  825.45  10,170  :  O    4.735  (1,836   9o   2225  1,560  1 J67  22    1560 :..
LongAn            176.46  1866    6,209    .72.  3,110    pB16)  930  1,150  1,030   616  1,150  1,030   tip
TienGlano         288.48  256.01   7,9   4,1    4,130    p51) 1,200  1,775  1,186   651  1,775  1,155   4.7t
Soo.Tr.nlow Tho  376.05  423.43  13,28    7.08    5,010  (2,29   505  1,12D0 3,06   2,32   1,120  3,65 ?.i
DonThap           20.62  28815   7,130   4,W    3,260  (1,01t)  620   910  1,730  1,018   910  1,730   4
An Glang          216      4420   7,631   4.579   3,460  (1,099)  800  1,50  1.430  1,009   1,250  1,430   4,07
But Tr            187.06  210.63   6,862   S*4    2,660  (1*89)  350   800  1,530  19   60 80  1,580 :
Minh Hai         29526   264.84   8,001   5 1      4,060  (1281)  410   020 2,730  1,281   SQ0  2,730   ,.0
Kinlang           177.53  189.8    6,247          2,63   (1,118)  315   950  1,365  1,11s   85   136
I 5..0i    .    7               38195   07    0080 11100. '185,16 ,'1:.0,74'1.15. 11' .444
CbmS8ko- 321
CIa../Ola m RaFl. -        60% 
MEKONG.WKI                                                                                        sep/23



-108-hNZ9.
-108-                         ~~~~ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 3
SOCIALIST REPUBUC OF VET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Civl Works Calculatons In the Mekona Delta
Classrooms                                      New        Tota
Phreno.         Now Add'l      To Repir   To Replaco/Now   Now Latines   Water Systems   Baw
%   Number   %   Number   %   Nurnber   %   Number   %   Number  Coste
Vlnh Longftsa Vinh
Propetsd Need           1.87           2.225          1i60           3,785            379    9.57
Proposed          0%        0   18%      401   18%      281 18%        661   18%       68     1.19
LongAn
Pfojected Need            616          1,180          1,030          2,180            218    5.28
Proposed          0%        0   18%      207   18%      185   18%      392   18%       39    0.71
Tlen Olan
Projected Need            651          1,775          1,155          2,930            293    646
Proposed          0%        0   18%      320   18%      208   18%      527   18%       53    os1
SOC TmnglCanTho
Projected Need          2,329          1,120          3,985          5,105            511    16.02
Proposed          0%        0   18%      202   18%      717   18%      919   18%       92    1.97
Don" Thsp
ProJected Need          1,018            910          1,730          2,640            284    7.52
Proposed          0%        0   18%      164   18%      311   18%      475   18%       48    0.96
An Slang
Projected Need          1,099          1,250          1,430         2t6S0             268    7.42
Proposed          0%        0   18%      225   18%      257   18%      482   18%       48    0.90
8en Tre
Projected Need          1.269            600          1,530          2,330            233    7.45
Proposed          0%        0   18%      144   18%      275   18%      419   18%       42    0.84
Minh Hal
ProJected Need          1,28t            920         2730           3,650            365   10.49
Proposed          0%        0   18%    16   18%        491   18%      657   18%       68     1.38
ICen lang
Projected Need          1,118            950          1,365          2,315            232    6.92
Proposed          0%        0   18%      171   18%      248   18%      417   18%       42    0.81
Totals Ilos.)
Proleoted Need         10.748         11.100         16.1           27.615          2.762   77.12
ProDosed                               1~  IS881 27                  4.971            497    9.68
E P2U28d                   am             La             Le              m                      Log2 
Unit Costs In US$ W0                Avg. Number of Classrooms per School-     10
Fadlky           Rate                                      |Css  ea             32
Clasrooms
Repair           1.09
Replae/New       2.18
New              2.18
Laulnes           0.10
WaterSystems       1.00
CWDELTA.WK1                                                                             sep849



-109-                          ANNEX P1
Page 1 of 3
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRINARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CIVIL WORKS IN THE MOUNTAINOUS AREAS
1.          Viet Nam presently has 36 provinces which are regarded as wholly
or partially mountainous. Although sparsely populated, they cover the bulk of
the geographic area. Since it would be impossible to cover such a wide area
in the current project, the Government has identified eight out of the 36
provinces to participate in the project. These provinces (Son La, Hoa Binh,
Lang Son, Yen Bai, Lao Cai, Gia Lai, Kon Tum, and Ninh Thuan) were selected
because they contain a large number of ethnic minority inhabitants and UNICEF
has already been active in these areas. During preparation the following
criteria were used to identify proposed sites for school rehabilitation or
construction in the sparsely populated mountainous provinces:
(a)   Population clusters having a large number of children from one or
more of the eight selected ethnic minorities.
(b)   Rudimentary or temporary facilities, particularly thatch-roofed
structures without walls.
(c)   Areas where the population to be served is in the lowest 10% in
terms of per capita income.
(d)   Incomplete affiliate schools which are more than 5 kilometers from
an existing school and which at present can not offer all five
grades, either because of insufficient physical space or because
of the absence of a teacher skilled in multi-grade teaching.
(e)  Areas accessible by road.
(f)   Schools with staff willing to participate in project-supported
pedagogical activities targeted at ethnic minority children.
2.          In total, the construction component for the mountainous areas
would comprise: (a) repair of about 1,289 existing classrooms and
replacement/expansion of about 2,253 dilapidated classrooms (about 25% of the
total need per participating province); (b) provision of 5,666 suitable
latrines to schools (40% of needs); (c) provision of suitable furniture where
it does not already exist; (d) provision of water systems at some 567 school
sites (40% of needs).  All schools benefiting from civil works under the
project also would be provided training in the maintenance of the facilities.



-110-                 1       1
Page 2 of 3
SOCiALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
School Building Poaram  Needs and Prolect Proposa In the Mountain Areas
No. of   M. o
.U.......  ~wof.   No of  CI' ....        a...                           J.*4....         a.*.  M.
tim     isis   n.dd             "sedSdf -0p        C laaarow'          CIAseroom:
Long Son           93.20  104.94   3,496   20      1.90    (119)  435   595   96o   119   595   960  -Q99
Lao Calen Sa      127.89  144.00   4,00   26.    3,070       190   770   920  1,360      0   920  1,190   ;bt80
Has BinVHTay    398.67  448.79  14.96o  pap$   7,440  (1,53A  1,120  1,860  4,460  1565  1,660  4.460   :,
KonTum/Gla Lal   11250  126.67   4=        2.8   2450        (83)  440   760  120    83   760  1,250
9thThuaTVNnhTh 17667  19.15   6,63    .968.  Z26o    (1,2    510  1,020  1,160  1,23  1.020  1,160 .
ub,b. ..0-:.02 :10,285, 3,411w t-047,1, 17,80 ,,.                     196 1m  156, 0,.1.,,,:.010  20  1
Cbasdale- 301
lClasa.oIwoom ratio-        o6%
MOUN NtLMK1                                                                                       s8pq49



-111-
AMEX LI
Page 3 of 3
SOCIALIST REPUBUC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CMi Works Calculatons in the Mountain Areas
_    Classrooms                                     Now         total
Proince         New AddI       To Repair   To ReplcNew   New Laines   Watr Syse Sm         a
%   Number   %   Number   %   Number  %   Number   %    Number  Costs
Lang Son
Pojected Need             119            595            950          1,545            155    3.19
Proposed          0%        0   30%      178   30%      285   40%      618   40%       62    0.91
Lao Cawen Ela
Proed N"d                   0            920          1,100          2,110            211     3.90
Proposed          0%        0   3D%      276   30%      357   40%      844   40%       84    121
Hoe BInh/HaToy
ProJd Need              1,536          1,860          4,460          6,320            632   15.84
Propoed           0%        0   30%      #58   30%    1,338  40%    2,528   40%       253    3.91
Kon Tum/Ole Lai
Projletd Need              83            760          1,250          2.010            201     4.01
Proposed          0%        0   30%      228   30%      375   40%      604   40%       s0     1.19
Binh ThuaNlnh Thu n
Poed Need               1.293          1,020          1,160          2.180            218    6.67
Proposed          0%        0   30%      306   30%      348  40%       872   40%       87     123
Totals (Nos.)
PmdeSd Nftd             3.031          5.155          9.010         14.165          1417   33.60
IP. _.546 1                            2.703          5.86 567                  .45
_         __ Basoos                                                               _    _     __iM 
EM a2                     -Da             La                            gm             gm   IM
Unit Cost. In US 000V                Avg. Number of Classrooms per School -   10
Facility         Rate                                       Cias Sizn           301
Clasrooms
Repair           1.05
Repae/e          2.11
NeW              2.11
Laines            0.10
Water Systems     1.00
CWMOUNt.WKI                                                                              8epJ24/93



-112-                  =I& 12
Page 1 of 3
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STUDY TOURS AND FELLOWSHIPS FOR EDUCATION MANAGERS
1.    Vietnamese education managers at various levels--national, provincial,
district, and school--would undertake various kinds of study tours abroad to
improve their ability to manage Viet Nam's primary-education system.
2.    A small number of study tours (30) would be to industrialized countries
so that selected higher-level Vietnamese education managers at the national
and provincial level could become aware of recent developments in education
management theory and practice. A few education planners at the national
level would take short courses (1-2 months) in education management and
planaing at institutions such as the International Institute of Education
Planning in Paris. Other national and provincial education managers would be
assigned to a Ministry of Education or a Provincial Education Service in an
industrialized country for one month, in order to observe how high-level
education managers use school-mapping to make decisions regarding (a) the
creation of new schools; (b) the addition of classrooms to existing schools;
(C) the planning of future school enrollment and the allocation of children to
schools; and (d) the scheduling of classes so that all classrooms and
specialized facilities are used efficiently.
3.    All candidates for short courses or study tours to industrialized
countries should have the following gualifications: (a) ten years of
experience as an education manager at the national or provincial level; (b) a
basic fluency in either English or the language of the country to be visited;
and (c) an age of 35 to 50 years.
4.   A larger number of study tours would be to nearby countries, so that
selected Vietnamese education managers at the national, provincial, district,
and school level could see how these countries are presently managing their
primary-education systems and schools and how they dealt, at earlier stages in
their development, with education management problems similar to those Viet
Nam is presently facing.
5.   Of the study tours to nearby countries, 110 would be for a duration of
one month and would be for (a) selected Ministerial and provincial education
managers and (b) selected Ministerial and provincial education planning and
statistics officers. The education managers would observe how managerial
decisions are made in regard to the creation ot new schools, the distribution
of children among existing schools, the development of rational school
networks, and effective supervision of education systems. The education
planning and statistics officers would visit education planning and statistics
units in nearby countries to see the kinds of data and information collected
and how these data are collected, verified, processed, and used.
6.    Candidates for the one-month study tours to nearby countries should have
the following galiflcations: (a) ten years of experience as an education



-113-                   ANNE  12
Page 2 of 3
manager at the Ninisterial, provincial, or district level; (b) a basic fluency
in either English or the language of the country to be visited; and (c) an age
of 35 to 50 years.
7.    Up to 500 of the study tours to nearby countries would be for a duration
of two weeks and would be for selected district education managers and
selected primary-school principals. These scholarships would allow these
managers to observe (a) successful experiences with multi-graded teaching, (b)
successful bilingual education practices; (c) successful school scheduling
practices; (d) school records and school accounts; (e) the use of educational'
resources for distance education, including radio and correspondence; (f)
successful teacher supervision practices; (g) teacher evaluation practices;
and (h) pupil evaluation practices.
8.    Candidates for the two-week study tours to nearby countries should have
the following qualifications: (a) five years of experience as a district
education manager or school principal; and (b) an age of 30 to 50 years.
9.    Since there have been few opportunities to use the most commonly used
international languages in Viet Nam in recent years, short in-service
refresher courses in English and French (6-8 weeks) would be organized, before
the departure of the candidates, in Hanoi, Hue, and Ho Chi Ninh City for
candidates for the short courses or study tours to industrialized countries
and for candidates for the one-month study tours to nearby countries. All
three cities have Foreign Language Institutes which have adequate capacity
(facilities and staff) to offer these short courses. Candidates for the
shorter study tours to nearby countries would make use of interpreters; both
the Ministry of Education and Training and the Provincial Education Services
have an adequate nuaber of interpreters for this purpose.
10.  Upon their return to Viet Nam, these education managers would give
semunars at the national, provincial, and district Levels, to disseminate the
information, observations, and new working methods learned during the study
tours. In particular, those education managers who have benefited from study
tours on school mapping, the rationalization of school networks, multi-graded
teaching, and bilingual education would share their findings with their
colleagues.
11. Short grainin; courses would also be organized for executive secretaries
and for planning, finance, and statistics officers in the Ministry of
Education and Training and in the Provincial Education Services to enable them
to learn how to use the new software and hardware provided under the project.
12.  The study tours and training courses for the Educational Management
Component are summarized below:
(a) Scholarships (covering round-trip air travel, subsistence, internal
transportation, and incidentals) to industrialized countries.
Trainees: Ministerial and selected provincial education managers
and planners.
Number:    30.
Duration: 1-2 months.



-114-                    AM    12
Page 3 of 3
(b) Scholarships to nearby countries such as Thailand, Malaysia, and the
Philippines.
Trainees:  Ministerial and provincial education managers;
Ministerial and provincial education planning and
statistics officers.
Number:    110.
Duration:  I month.
(c) Scholarships to nearby countries such as Thailand, Malaysia, or the
Philippines.
Trainees: District education managers; selected primary-school
principals.
Number:    500.
Duration:  2 weeks.
(d) National and regional seminars within Viet Nam.
Trainees:  Primary-school principals.
Number:    12,000.
Duration:  2 weeks.
(e) In-service refresher languages courses in English or French for
candidates for courses abroad.
Trainees:  Candidates for courses abroad (1-2 months) whose present
fluency in English or French (depending on the country of
destination) requires improvement.
Number:    Up to 140.
Duration:  6-8 weeks.
(f) On-site training courses on new equipment.
Trainees: Executive secretaries and planning, finance, and
statistics officers in the Ministry of Education and
Training and in the Provincial Education Services.
Number:    About 150.
Duration:  1-5 days.



-115-                  ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAH
PRIMARY EDUCAKION PROJECT
WOIPNKN_ FOR EnyGAI3N MANAGEAME
Description
1.    Computer work-stations (includes printer, paper,
spare parts, installation, dehumidifier, air purifier,
service contract,' and software) for the Ministry of
Education and Training:
Department of Planning and Finance:                               1
Department of Teacher Training                                    1
Education Publishing House                                        1
General Company of Teaching Aids and Equipment                    1
Minister's Office                                                 1
Department of General Education
15
2.   Computer work-stations for Provincial Education Services          53
3.    Fax machines for Provincial and selected District
Education Services                                               75
4.   Heavy-duty photocopiers for the General Education
Department, for processing examinations and other
educational management                                            2
5.    Medium-size photocopiers for Provincial
Education Services                                              100
6.    Stencil duplicators for Departments of the Ministry of
Education and Training, Provincial Education Services,
District Education Services, and some large schools
6.1 Automatic electronic Stencil Duplicators                    500
6.2 Smaller Stencil Duplicators                                 500
7.    Rapid Heavy-Duty Staplers                                       700
It    Service contracts are available in Hanoi from the Hanoi Polytechnic at a
cost of US$170 equivalent per year. Similar services are available in Ho Chi
Minh City and other centers.



-116-
ASlma 13
Page 2 of 2
8.   TypewrLters
8.1 Electronic                                                 60
8.2 Manual                                                    S50
9.   Record Books, Reglster ook., and Stationary for Office Use
10.  Electronie calculators
Two per province x 43 proavinces                               86
Two per district a 570 dLstricts                            1,140
Minlstry of Education and Training                             24
1,250
11.   12-seat vans                                                    2
12.  Motorcycles                                                     40
13.  Autouobile                                                       1



-117-                   ANE  14
Page 1 of 7
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRMD=  EDUCATION PROJECT
SAMPLE-EASED NATIONAL ASSESSMENT OF PRIMARY EDUCATION IN VIET NWM
Introduction
1.          This annex includes a description, schedule, and plan for a high-
quality sample-based national assessment in Viet Nam which would (a) yield
reliable data for monitoring and evaluating the educational impact of the
Primary Education Project and (b) establish a valuable, long-term monitoring
device for improve Viet Nam's education system.
Basic Requirements for the Assessment
2.          The following are the basic requirements for carrying out the
assessment successfully:
(a)   Educational achievement would be assessed in two subjects:
Vietnamese and mathematics;
(b)   The assessment would take place every two years, e.g., in
1994, 1996, 1998 etc.;
(c)   Achievements would be assessed in two grades:  Grade 3 and
Grade 5;
(d)   The assessment would be carried out nationally (i.e., not
limited to certain regions only);
(e)   The sample would include pupils from eight ethnic minori-
ties, who would also be assessed in Vietnamese and mathemat-
ics (but not in their ethnic minority languages);
(f)   The assessment would be administered by specially trained
staff (i.e., not by the pupils' teachers);
(g)   The results would be scored in Hanoi;
(h)   Two microcomputers would be available for drawing the sample
and conducting data analyses;
(i)   Computer programs would be purchased or leased for sampling,
data entry, and data analyses;
(j) Technical assistance would be made available for training
and assistance;
(k)   Reports would be provided to the Ministry of Education and
Training (MOET), policy-makers (e.g., the State Planning
Committee), administrators, teachers, and the public;



-118-                   ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 7
(1)   Trends would be measured over time to show improvements (or
declines) in educational achievement;
(m)  The tests would reflect minimum learning level objectives
and would be kept secure; and
(n)   Information on pupil, teacher, and school backgrounds would
be collected via questionnaires, and assessment results
would be related to pupil performance.
Tasks
3.          Assessment Development.  Tests would be based on minimum learning
level objectives. Test questions would be written by committees of teachers
and experts, who would write one and one half times as many questions (150%)
as eventually needed, so that questions giving equivocal results during the
pro-testing could be discarded. Manuals would be written containing direc-
tions for administering the assessments; scoring guides would also be pre-
pared. Questions would be pre-tested in a small number (25-50) of schools.
Questions would then be revised on the basis of pre-test results. Final
tests, manuals, and scoring guides would then be assembled.
4.          SaMoLe Selection.  A list of all primary or basic-education
schools in the country would be prepared, with the primary-school enrollment
at each school. The list would be separated into "strata." Schools and
alternate schools would be selected rardomly. The selected schools would be
asked to prepare lists of all pupils in Grades 3 and 5. Students would then
be randomly selected from each school. Excluded student procedures would be
developed. Results would be "weighted' after administration of the assess-
ment.
5.          Administration of the Assessment.  Administrators (25-50) would be
selected and trained. The people responsible for the assessment would insist
that the assessment be administered using rigorous, standardized procedures.
Quality-control procedures would be developed for use at 25% of the schools.
6.          Scoring.  Professional scorers would be selected and trained to
score the tests using scoring guides.  The people resF,nsible for the assess-
ment would insist on standardized procedures for scoring. Duplicate scoring
of 50% of the results would be use to ensure quality control.
7.          Preparation of Data Base (Central Processing Unit Program).  A
data base would be prepared by entering pupils' responses and data from the
pupil, teacher, and school questionnaires. A quality control data base would
also be prepared.
8.          Data Analyses. The following analyses would be carried out:  (a)
an item analysis of the results for every question; (b) bias analyses (gender;
region; ethnic minority group); (c) a percent correct analysis; (d) sub-group
analyses (gender; rural/urban; type of teacher; etc.); and (e) analyses of
relationships with family. home, and school factors.
9.          Renorting of Findings.  An analysis of the findings would be
carried out by a committee of experts, teachers, and administrators. The



-119-                   ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 7
report(s) would then be written and published. A press conference would be
called to announce the publication of the report.



-120-                   AM    14
P.ge 4 of 7
SCHEDULE
(24-Mouth Cycle)
A"tivisyMot
*   Specifications developed by committees                            1
*   Questions based on Minimum Learning Level objectives
developed by committees/Sample selected                         3
Pretests and manuals published                                   5
Pretests administered                                            6
*   Pretests scored                                                   7
*   Analysis of pretest results undertaken                            8
Final tests prepared                                             9
Tests and manuals printed                                       11
*   Test administrators trained                                     12
Tests administered nationally; results returned to Hanoi        13
*   Results scored                                                  14
*   Data base created                                               15
*   Results analyzed                                                18
*   Report(s) written                                               20
Reports printed                                                 21
Dissemination; press conference held                            24
*   Need for technical assistance.  During the first assessment (24 months),
technical assistance would be needd for 18 weeks. During the second assess-
ment, technical assistance would be needed for only 12 weeks, and during the
third assessment, for only 9 weeks.



-121-                    ^|lDL 14
Psge 5 of 7
Year 1     Year 2      Yeat 3      Year 4      Year 5     Year 6
-.---------I---------I..........I----------I--b-------I----------
Assessment #1  --------- 1--A. .....R-
Assessment #2                          I --------*-*A -------R
Assessment #3                                                   ----------1-A....--..R
A - Administration
R - Reporting



-122-                    ANNEX 14
Page 6 of 7
BUDGET CATEGORIES
1. Project Management Team
Two professionals
Two assistants
Overheads (telephone; facsimile; overseas mail)
2. Technical Assistance
42 staff-weeks over six years (see terms of reference Annex 15)
Travel and expenses for 19 visits (varying from I to 4 weeks)
3. Hardware and Software for Data Processing and Analysis
2 Microcomputers (or access)
2 Programs (Sampling and Data Analysis) (buy or lease)
(purchase cost: US$30,000 each)
4.   Meetints of Teachers. Exports. Administrators etc. (within Viet Nam)
Per gyq.h: 4 Development Committee Meetings (8 people each)
2 Report-Writing Meetings (4 people each)
Total over 6 Years (3 cycles): 18 Meetings
5. Administration
Train 50 test administrators at two-day training meetings,
one in the North, one in the South.
Travel and expenses to get to the training.
Training could take place in offices of Provincial Education Services.
Hire the administrators, once trained, for one week to administer tests.
Travel and expenses to get to the selected schools for test administration.



-123-                   ANNEX 14
Page 7 of 7
6.  Stxtn
A. Pretests and Manuals:
200 tests x 2 subjects x 2 grades - 800 tests x 50 pages/test
1 manual/school x 50 schools x 2 subjects x 2 grades
- 100 maxiuals x 20 pages/ anual
B. Final tests:
4,000 tests x 2 subjects x 2 grades - 16,000 tests x 50 pages/test
1 manual/school x 100 schools x 2 subjects x 2 grades
- 400 manuals x 20 pages/manual
2 questionnaires/school x 2 grades x 100 schools
- 400 questionnaires x 4 pages
C. Rp2orts:
3,500 reports x 60 pages/report
14,000 summaries x 4 pages/s"umAry
(1 summary sent to every primary or basic school)



-124-                   ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 46
SOCIALIST REPBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
ETHNIC MINORITIESfMOUNTAIN AREAS COS
Terms of Reference:  Applied Linguistics Advisor (1 individual)
(expatriate--financed by World Vision)
HiuRe4AicnalR1skpnsibili±y
The Applied Linguistics Advisor will work in the Ethnic Minority
Implementation Unit for the North in Hanoi, where he/she will report to the
Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas Component
(Director of the Research Center for Ethnic Minority Education). He/she will
also make regular, periodic visits to the Ethnic Minority Implementation Unit
for the South in Nha Trang and the eight provinces selected for inclusion in
the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas Component, to carry out his/her tasks and
responsibilities.
ReqgirQd Oualifications
The Applied Linguistics Advisor should:
1.    be at least 30 years old;
2.    have at least a Master's degree (and preferably a Ph.D.) in linguistics;
3.    have experience in ethnic minority research and applied linguistics
production;
4.    be fluent in English and possess a good working knowledge of Vietnamese
(knowledge of one or more of the eight ethnic minority languages
selected for inclusion in the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas Component
would be advantageous); and
5.    be able to work well with his/her national counterparts, have leadership
experience, and be committed to passing on his/her technical expertise.
Duties and Responsibilities
The Applied Linguistics Advisor shall carry out the following duties and
responsibilities with respect to the eight language programs to be undertaken
in the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas Component:
1.    Provide his/her Vietnamese counterparts with information on relevant
researcA concerning analytical linguistic matters (phonology and
grammar) and sociolinguistic factors (dialect variation, language
attitude).



-125-
Page 2 of 46
2.    Guide in the preparation of appropriate reference works (dictionaries,
text collections).
3.    Assist the Director of the Research Center for Ethnic Minority Education
in coordinating the Inputs of the other technical specialists to be
hired for the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas Component.
4.   Provide overall technical supervision of those project activities
designed to increase literacy rates among the eight ethnic minorities
selected for inclusion in the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas
Component, and provide applied linguistic perspectives to all activities
involving the eight ethnic minority languages.
5.   Give special guidance to programs involving the four languages (Thai,
Muong, Nung, and Hmong) in the five northern provinces (Son La, Hoa
Binh, Lang Son, Yen Bai, and Lao Cai) selected for inclusion in the
Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas Component.
Timin; and Duration of Service
The Applied Linguistics Advisor will carry out the above duties on a
full-time basis over the five years of the project.



-126-                    am   2
Page 3 of 46
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAO
PRI?ARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
ETHNIC NINORTIES/HOEFLlSRA=   COM%=E
Terms of Reference: Ethnic Minority Literacy Advisor (1 individual)
(expatriate--supplied by World Vision)
Hierarchical Responsibility
The Ethnic Minority Literacy Advisor will work in the Ethnic Minority
Implementation Unit for the South in Nha Trang, where he/she will report to
the Deputy Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas
Component. From time to time, he/she will also visit the Ethnic Minority
Implementation Unit for the North in Hanoi and the eight provinces selected
for inclusion in the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas Component, to carry out
his/her tasks and responsibilities.
qeouired Oualifications
The Ethnic Minority Literacy Advisor should:
1.    be at least 30 years old;
2.    have at least a Master's degree (and preferably a Ph.D.) in linguistics
or education;
3.    have experience in ethnic minority research and especially in the
production of literacy materials and the training of ethnic minority
teachers;
4.    have professional expertise in both the theory and the method of othnic
minority literacy;
5.    be fluent in English and have a good working knowledge of Vietnamese
(knowledge of one or more ethnic minority languages would be-
advantageous); and
6.   be able to work well with his/her national counterparts, have leadership
experience in cross-cultural settings, and be committed to passing on
his/her technical expertise.
Duties and Resgonsibilities
The Ethnic Minority Literacy Advisor shall carry out the following
duties and responsibilities with respect to the eight language programs
selected for inclusion in the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas Component:



-127-                   ANNEX 15
Pag. 4 of 46
1.    Provide professional understanding of the relationship between
linguistic research results and their implications for decision-making
in the implementation of literacy programs.
2.    Provide guidance in the preparation of educational materials to be
published in the eight ethnic minority languages.
3.    Lead in preparing and conducting courses to train ethnic minority
teachers in the use of mother-tongue literacy materials.
4.    Provide the methodological and theoretical basis for those project
activities designed to increase literacy rates among the eight ethnic
minorities selected for inclusion in the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain
Areas Component.
5.    Give special guidance to programs involving the four languages (Cham,
Jarai, Bahnar, and Sedang) in the three southern provinces (Cia Lai, Kon
Tum, and Ninh Thuan) selected for inclusion in the Ethnic
Minorities/Mountain Areas Component.
Timing and Duration of Service
The Ethnic Minority Literacy Advisor will carry out the above duties on
a full-time basis over the five years of the project.



-128-                     NE  1S
Page 5 of 46
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EpUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
ETHNIC MINORITIES/MOUNTAIN AREAS COMPONEMT
Terms of Reference: Speciallst in Curricula for Ethnic Minority
Children (1 individual) (expatriate)
Hierarchical Responsibility
The Specialist in Curricula for Ethnic Minority Children will work in
the Ethnic Minority Implementation Unit for the North in Hanoi, where he/she
will report to the Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic Minorities/
Mountain Areas Component (Director of the Research Center for Ethnic Minority
Education).
RequiXqdf Oualificationa
1.    The Specialist in Curricula for Ethnic Minority Children should:
1.    be at least 25 years old;
2.    have at least a Master's degree or special training in education,
literacy, and/or applied linguistics;
3.    have experience in bilingual education and/or literacy programs,
preferably in Asia or the Pacific;
4.    be fluent in English (a working knowledge of Vietnamese and familiarity
with the ethnolinguistic situation in the area would be an advantage);
and
5.   be able to work well with his/her national counterparts and be committed
to passing on his/her technical expertise.
Duties and Regnonsibilities
The Specialist in Curricula for Ethnic Minority Children shall carry out
the following duties and responsibilities:
1.    Consult with Vietnamese curriculum specialists on the preparation and
implementation of a study to examine the existing curriculum, proposing
modifications to be used among ethnic minorities.
2.   Assist the (Vietnamese) Educational Materials Researcher in cataloguing
literacy and other instructional materials in ethnic minority languages.



-129-                   ANNEX IS
Page 6 of 46
3.    Consult in the evaluation of curriculum and provide feedback for new
curriculum planning.
Xining an  DraIgn of Servces
The Specialist in Curricula for Ethnic Minority Children will begin
his/her work in Project Year I and will work for a period of 3 weeks: 2 weeks
on the first task listed above, and 1 week on the second. He/she will return
to Viet Nam for 2 weeks in Project Year 3 to carry out the third task listed
above.



-130-                   AN=  15
Page 7 of 46
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAO
PRIMARY EDUCATIQN PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
ETHNIC HINORITIES/MOUNTAIN AREAS COMPONENT
Terms of Rieference: Educational Materials Researcher (1 individual)
(Vietnamese)
Hierarchical_R onsibikItv
The Educational Materials Researcher will work in Hanoi in the Ministry
of Education and Training's Research Center for Ethnic Minority Education,
where he/she will report to the Director (the Assistant Project Manager for
the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas Component), in Ho Chi Minh City, where
he/she will report to the Deputy Director of the Ministry of Education and
Training's Office for the South, and in Nha Trang, where he/she will report to
the Deputy Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic Minorities/
Mountain Areas Component.
Re_uired Oualifications
The Educational Materials Researcher should:
1.    be at least 25 years old;
2.    have special training in education, applied linguistics, or library
science;
3.    have experience in educational or cross-cultural research;
4.    speak Vietnamese (a knowledge of English and one or more of the eight
ethnic minority languages selected for inclusion in the Ethnic
Minorities/Mountain Areas Component would be advantageous); and
5.   be able to work well with his/her national colleagues, including ethnic
minority peoples, and international counterparts.
Duties and Regsonsibilities
The Educational Materials Researcher shall catalog existing literacy and
other instructional materials in ethnic minority languages.
TInlg AMad Duration of Service
The Educational Materials Researcher will carry out his/her work in
Project Year I and will work for a period of 4 months.



-131-                    ANNEX 15
Page 8 of 46
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
T92iG&;Q ASSISTANCE
ETHNIC MINORITIESa/MOUNAIN AREAS COMPONENT
Terms of Reference: Specialists in Ethnic Minority Languages
(8 individuals) (expatriates)
Hierarchlcal ResRonsibility
Four of the eight Specialists in Ethnic Minority Languages will work in
the Ethnic Minority Implementation Unit for the North in Hanoi, where they
will report to the Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic Minorities/
Mountain Areas Component (Director of the Research Center for Ethnic Minority
Education). From time to time, they will also visit one or more of the five
Northern provinces selected for inclusion in the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain
Areas Component, to carry out his/her tasks and responsibilities.
The other four Specialists in Ethnic Minority Languages will work in the
Ethnic Minority Implementation Unit for the South in Nha Trang, where they
will report to the Deputy Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic Minorities/
Mountain Areas Component. From time to time, they will also visit one or more
of the three Central and Southern provinces selected for inclusion in the
Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas Component, to carry out their tasks and
responsibilities.
Regauired Oualifications
The Specialists in Ethnic Minority Languages should:
1.    be at least 25 years old;
2.    have at least a Master's degree or special training in Applied
Linguistics;
3.    have experience in applied linguistic resoarch, literacy programs,
and/or cross-cultural work, preferably in Southeast Asia;
4.    be fluent in English and have a working knowledge of Vietnamese and at
least a beginning facility in one of the eight ethnic minority languages
selected for inclusion in the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas Component
(one specialist should be chosen for each of the eight languages); and
5.    be able to work well with their national counterparts and be committed
to passing on their technical expertise.



-132-                    MDL  __
Page 9 of 46
Duties and Remoaiblte
Each of the Specialists In Ethmic Minorlty Languages shall carry out the
following duties and responsibilities for one of the eight selected languages:
1.    Consult on the development of new and the revision of existing learning
materials in one of the following languages: Thai, Muong, Nung, Hmong,
JaraS, Bahnar, Cham, and Sedang.
2.   Provide linguistic method and theory for the compilation or moderniza-
tion of dictionaries for use In schools in one of the following
languages: Nuong. Hmong, Bahnar, and Sedang.
3.   Take part in preliminary field testing of materials in advance of
general use in schools.
4.   Help conduct one four-week workshop with 40 teachers.
5.   Assist in conducting one four-week workshop with 160 teachers.
Timin; and Duration of Servlce
Each Specialist in an Ethnic Minority Language will begin his/her work
in Project Year 2 and will work during that year for one month to complete the
first and third tasks. The four specialists responsible for Thai, Nung,
Jarai, and Chas will return to Viet Nam in Project Year 3 for 1-1/2 months:
1/2 month to work on the first task listed above, and 1 month to work on the
fourth task. The four specialists responsible for Muong, Hmong, Bahnar, and
Sedang will also return to Viet Nam in Project Year 3, but for 2-1/2 months:
1/2 month to work on the first, task listed above. 1 month to work on the
second task. and 1 month to work on the fourth task. All eight specialists
will return to Viet Nam in Project Year 4 for 2 months: 1 month to work on
the second task listed above and 1 month to work on the fifth task.



-133-                   ANNEX 15
Page 10 of 46
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRINARY EDUCATION PMg=ECT
TECHICAL AISIS=ACE
ETHNIC MINORITIES/MOUNTAIN AREAS COMPONENT
Terms of Referensce: Core Language Cadres (16 individuals)(Vietnamese)
Hierarchical ResRousibility
Eight of the sixteen Core Language Cadres will work in the Ethnic
Minority Implementation Unit for the North in Hanoi, where they will report to
the Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas
Component (Director of the Research Center for Ethnic Minority Education).
From time to time, they will also visit one or more of the five Northern
provinces selected for inclusion in the Ethnic Ninorities/Mountain Areas
Component, to carry out their tasks and responsibilities.
The other eight Core Language Cadres will work in the Ethnic Minority
Implementation Unit for the South in Nha Trang, where they will report to the
Deputy Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas
Component. From time to time, they will also visit one or more of the three
Central and Southern provinces selected for inclusion in the Ethnic
Minorities/Mountain Areas Component, to carry out their tasks and
responsibilities.
ReSuired Oualifications
The Core Language Cadres should:
1.   be at least 25 years old;
2.   have basic training in primary education, and, preferably, have at least
five years of experience as a teacher among ethnic minorities;
3.   be native-culture members of one of the eight ethnic minorities selected
for inclusion in the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas Component (two
Cadres should be chosen for each of the eight ethnic minorities);
4.   speak one of the eight ethnic minority languages (Thai, Muong, Nug,
Hmong, Jarai, Bahnar, Chan, and Sedang) selected for inclusion in the
Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas Component with native fluency, and also
speak Vietnamese;
5.   have a deep appreciation for the aesthetic use of their native language;
6.   have the ability to communicate effectively and dynamically with an
audience and with a small group of teachers;



-134-                    ANNEX 1S
Page 11 of 46
7.    be respected by the targeted community;
8.    be willing to travel for periods of time to remote areas; and
9.    be able to work well with their national colleagues, including ethnic
minority peoples, and international counterparts.
Duties and Responsibilities
The Core Language Cadres shall carry out the following duties and
responsibilities:
1.    Develop new and revise existing learning materials in one of the
following languages: Thai, Muong, Nung, Hmong, Jarai, Bahnar, Cham, and
Sedang.
2.    Take part in preliminary field testing of materials in advance of
general use in schools.
3.    Help conduct one four-week workshop for 40 teachers.
4.    Assist in conducting one four-week workshop for 160 teachers.
5.    Conduct two one-week workshops for 40 teachers.
6.    Conduct two one-week workshops for 160 teachers.
Timing and Duration of Services
Each Core Language Cadre will begin his/her work in Project Year 2 and
will work for a period of 11 months: 10 months on the first task listed
above, and 1 month on the second. In Project Year 3, each Cadre will work 5-
1/2 months: 3 months on the first task, 2 months on the third task, and 1/2
month on the fifth task. In Project Year 4, each Cadre will work 3 months: 2
months on the fourth task, 1/2 month on the fifth task, and 1/2 month on the
sixth task. In Project Year 5, each Cadre will work 1/2 month on the sixth
task.



-135-                   AEX lS
Page 12 of 46
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
ETHNIC MINORITIES/MOUNTAIN AREAS COMPONENT
Terms of Reference: Mother-Tongue Lexicographers (4 individuals)
(Vietnamese)
Hierarchical Responsibility
Two of the four Mother-Tongue Lexicographers will work in the Ethnic
Minority Implementation Unit for the North in Hanoi, where they will report to
the Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas
Component (Director of the Research Center for Ethnic Minority Education).
From time to time, they will also visit one or more of the five Northern
provinces selected for inclusion in the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas
Component, to carry out their tasks and responsibilities.
The other two Mother-Tongue Lexicographers will work in the Ethnic
Minority Implementation Unit for the South in Nha Trang, where they will
report to the Deputy Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic Minorities/
Mountain Areas Component. From time to time, they will also visit one or more
of the three Central and Southern provinces selected for inclusion in the
Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas Component, to carry out their tasks and
responsibilities.
Reauired Oualifications
The Mother-Tongue Lexicographers should:
1.    be at least 30 years old;
2.    have some training in dictionary-making methods;
3.    have experience in educational or cross-cultural research;
4.    speak Vietnamese and one or more of the four following languages:
Muong, Hmong, Bahnar, and Sedang (a knowledge of English would be
advantageous); and
5.    be able to work well with their national colleagues, including ethnic
minority peoples, and international counterparts.
Duties and ResRonsibilities
Each of the Mother-Tongue Lexicographers shall compile or modernize
dictionaries for use in schools in one of the following languages: Nuong,
Hmong, Bahnar, and Sedang.



-136-                   ANMM is
Page 13 of 46
Timing and Duration of Service
The Mother-Tongue Lexicographers will begin their work in Project Year 3
and will work for a period of 6 months. They will continue their work in
Project Year 4 and will also work for a period of 6 months.



-137-
Page 14 of 46
AOCIAULST REUBLC OP VIET RNM
PRXIMARY  DU=AIONPOJC
Terms of Reference: Specialist in Indigenous Authoring
(1 individual) (expatriate)
Hisrarchical Resgonsibilill
The Specialist in Indigenous Authoring will work part-time in the Ethnic
Minority Implementation Unit for the North In Hanoi, where he/she will report
to the Assistant Project Nanager for the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas
Component (Director of the Research Center for Ethnic Minority Education), and
part-time in the Ethnic Minority Implementation Unit for.the South in NbM
Trang, where he/she will report to the Deputy Assistant Project Manager for
the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas Component.
Required Oualifications
The Specialist in Indigenous Authoring should:
1.   be at least 30 years old;
2.   have at least a Master's degree or special training in apptied
linguistics, literacy programs, and/or literature;
3.    have experience in applied linguistic research, literacy programs, and
conducting workshops for ethnic minority authors, preferably in
Southeast Asia;
4.    be fluent in English (some knowledge of Vietnamese would be
advantageous); and
5.   be able to work well with his/her national counterparts and be committed
to passing on his/her technical expertise.
Duties and Responsibilities
The Specialist in Indigenous Authoring shall prepare materials for and
conduct a writers' workshop to develop a growing body of ethnic minority
literature, as a means of augmenting the number of appropriate educational
materials available in ethnic minority languages and thereby contributing to
increased literacy rates among ethnic minority peoples.



-138-
Page 15 of 46
Timinr and Duration of Service
The Specialist in Indigenous Authoring will carry out his/her work in
Project Year 2 and will work for a period of 1 month.



-139-                   AN    15
Page 16 of 46
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
ETHNIC MINORITIES/MOUNTAIN AREAS COMPONENT
Terms of Reference: Advisors on Indigenous Authoring (2 individuals)
(Vietnamese)
Hierarchical Resgonsibility
One of the two Advisors on Indigenous Authoring will work in the Ethnic
Minority Implementation Unit for the North in Hanoi, where he/she will report
to the Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas
Component (Director of the Research Center for Ethnic Minority Education).
The other Advisor on Indigenous Authoring will work in the Ethnic
Minority Implementation Unit for the South in Nha Trang, where he/she will
report to the Deputy Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic Minorities/
Mountain Areas Component.
Reauired Oualifications
The Advisors on Indigenous Authoring should:
1.    be at least 30 years old;
2.   have special training in bilingual education, literacy programs, or
literature;
3.   have experience in education, creative writing, and cross-cultural
communication;
4.   be fluent in Vietnamese (a knowledge of English and one or more ethnic
minority languages would be advantageous); and
5.   be able to work well with their national counterparts, including ethnic
minority peoples, and international counterparts.
Duties and ResDonsibilities
The Advisors on Indigenous Authoring shall assist the (expatriate)
Specialist in Indigenous Authoring in preparing materials for and conducting
writers' workshops to develop a growing body of ethnic minority literature.
Timing and Duration of Service
The Advisors on Indigenous Authoring will carry out their work in
Project Year 2 and will work for a period of 2 months.



-140-                   ANEX 15
Page 17 of 46
SQQALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAN
PRIMUPY EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
ETHNIC MINORITIES/MOUNTAIN AREAS COMPONENT
Terms of Reference: Specialist in Sociolinguistic Surveying
(1 individual) (expatriate)
Hlerarchical Reasonsibility
The Specialist in Sociolinguistic Surveying will work in the Ethnic
Minority Implementation Unit for the North in Hanoi, where he/she will report
to the Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas
Component (Director of the Research Center for Ethnic Minority Education), and
in the Ethnic Minority Implementation Unit for the South in Nha Trang, where
he/she will report to the Deputy Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic
Minorities/Mountain Areas Component.
Reguired Oualifications
The Specialist in Sociolinguistic Surveying should:
1.   be at least 30 years old;
2.    have at least a Master's degree or special training in applied
linguistics, sociolinguistics, and/or survey methodology;
3.   have experience in applied linguistic research and sociolinguistic
survey work, preferably in Southeast Asia;
4.   be fluent in English (a knowledge of Vietnamese would advantageous); and
5.   be able to work well with national counterparts and should be committed
to passing on his/her technical expertise.
Duties and Resbonsibilities
The Specialist in Sociolinguistic Surveying shall prepare materials for
and conduct two workshops on sociolinguistic surveying methods and theory, one
in Hanoi and one in Nha Trang.
Timing and Duration of Services
The Specialist in Sociolinguistic Surveying will carry out his/her work
in Project Year I and will work for a period of 1 month.



-141-                  AM  iS
Page 18 of 46
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC QF VIET NAM
PRIMARY BDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
ETHIC HINOUTIES/HOUNTAIN ARLAS COMPONENT
Terms of Reference: Sociolinguistic Researcher (8 individuals)
(Vietnamese)
Hierarchical Resgonsibility
Four of the eight Sociolinguistic Researchers will work out of the
Ethnic Minority Implementation Unit for the North in Hanoi, where they will
report to the Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain
Areas Component (Director of the Research Center for Ethnic Minority
Education). Most of their work, however, will be carried out in one or more
of the five Northern provinces selected for inclusion in the Ethnic
Minorities/Mountain Areas Component.
The other four Sociolinguistic Researchers will work out of the Ethnic
Minority Implementation Unit for the South in Wha Trang, where they will
report to the Deputy Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic Minorities/
Mountain Areas Component. Most of their work, however, will be carried out in
one or more of the three Central and Southern provinces selected for inclusion
in the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas Component.
Reguired Oualifications
The Sociolinguistic Researchers should:
1.    be at least 25 years old;
2.    have a training in sociolinguistic surveying methods;
3.    have experience in ethnic minority education and local culture in Viet
Nam;
4.    speak one of the eight ethnic minority languages selected for inclusion
in the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas Component with native fluency,
and also speak Vietnamese; and
5.    be able to work well with their national colleagues, including ethnic
minority peoples, and international counterparts.



-142-                  AN=  15,
Page 19 of 46
Duties and Responsibilities
After having taken the workshop given by the (expatriate) Specialist In
Sociolinguistic Surveying, the Sociolinguistic Researchers shall conduct
surveys in the eight provinces selected for inclusion in the Ethnic
Minorities/Mountain Areas Component to determine language groups, populations,
locations, dialect differences, and other sociolinguistic features that should
be taken into account in developing educational materials for children
speaking the eight languages selected for inclusion in the Ethnic Minorities/
Mountain Areas Component.
TiminiL and RDration of Servige
The Sociolinguistic Researchers will carry out their work in Project
Year 1 and will work for a period of 4 months each.



-143-                   ANNEX 15
Page 20 of 46
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAN
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
ETHNIC MINORITIES/MOUNTAIN AREAS COMPONENT
Terms of Reference: Local Linguistic Consultants (8 individuals)
(Vietnamese)
Hierarchical Responsibility
Four of the eight Local Linguistic Consultants will work in the Ethnic
Minority Implementation Unit for the North in Hanoi, where they will report to
the Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas
Component (Director of the Research Center for Ethnic Minority Education).
From time to time, they will also visit one or more of the five Northern
provinces selected for inclusion in the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas
Component, to carry out their tasks and responsibilities.
The other four Local Linguistic Consultants will work in the Ethnic
Minority Implementation Unit for the South in Nha Trang, where they will
report to the Deputy Assistant Project Manager for the Ethnic
Minorities/Mountain Areas Component. From time to time, they will also visit
one or more of the three Central and Southern provinces selected for inclusion
in the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas Component, to carry out their tasks
and responsibilities.
Reouired Oualifications
The Local Linguistic Consultants should:
1.   be at least 25 years old;
2.   have training in linguistics, sociolinguistics, or ethnography;
3.    have professional experier.ce with one of the eight ethnic minority
languages selected for inclusion in the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas
Component;
4.    speak Vietnamese and one of the eight ethnic minority languages selected
for inclusion in the Ethnic Minorities/Mountain Areas Component; and
5.    be able to work well with their national colleagues, including ethnic
minority peoples, and international counterparts.



-144-                  AlNEX: 15
Page 21 of 46
Duties and Ieaponnbilities
In association with the (expatriate) Specialists in Ethnic Minority
Languages, the Local Linguistic Consultants shall advise on linguistically
relevant matters throughout the life of the project, particularly on the
development of writing systems for those ethnic minority languages which have
none and where the native speakers have demonstrated a need and an interest
for such linguistic assistance.
Timingi and Duation of Servlce
The Local Linguistic Consultants will begln their work in Project Year 1
and will work for a period of 6 o.nths. They will continue their work in each
succeeding Project Year and will work for a period of 6 months in Project Year
2, 3 months in Project Year 3, 3 months in Project Year 4, and 1 month in
Project Year 5.



-145-                   a=   is
Page 22 of 46
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TECffNICAL ASSISTANCE
TEXTBOOK M=EPNET
Terms of geference: Specialist in General Management of Textbook
Publishing (1 individual)(expatriate)
Hierarchical Resoonsibilitv
The Specialist in General Management of Textbook Publishing will work in
the Education Publishing House in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, where he/she
vill report to the Assistant Project Manager for the Textbook Component
(Director of the Education Publishing House).
Reguired Oualifigcations
The Specialist in General Management of Textbook Publishing should:
1.    be at least 30 years old;
2.    have had on-the-job training in the field of textbook publishing;
3.   have at least 10 years of experience in publishing, with at least 5
years in textbook publishing In a developed country;
4.    be fluent in English (knowledge of Vietnamese would be useful); and
5.    be hard-working and able to work well with his/her national
counterparts.
Duties and ResRonsibilities
The Specialist in General Management of Textbook Publishing will prepare
teaching materials and will conduct a two-week course in the management of
textbook publishing for about 20 people. The course will be given first in
Hanoi and then in Ho Chi Minh City.
Tl,ing and Duration of Service
The Specialist in General Management of Textbook Publishing will
undertake his/her task in Project Year 1, as soon as possible after the
project begins, and will work for a period of 1 month.



-146-                   ANMM 15
Page 23 of 46
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAN
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TEXTBOOK CgMlXEENT
Terms of Referenea:  Specialist in Textbook Distribution and Marketing
(1 individual) (expatriate)
Hierarchical Responsibility
The Specialist in Textbook Distribution and Marketing will work in the
Education Publishing House in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, where he/she will
report to the Assistant Project Manager for the Textbook Component (Director
of the Education Publishing House).
Required Oualifications
The Specialist in Textbook Distribution and Marketing should:
1.    be at least 30 years old;
2.    have had on-the-job training in the field of textbook distribution and
marketing;
3.   have at least 10 years of experience in his/her specialties, with at
least 5 years in textbook distribution and marketing in a developed
country;
4.   be fluent in English (knowledge of Vietnamese would be useful); and
5.   be hard-working and able to work well with his/her national
counterparts.
Duties and Resgonsibilities
The Specialist in Textbook Distribution and Marketing will prepare
teaching materials and will conduct a two-week course in textbook distribution
and marketing for about 20 people. The course will be given first in Hanoi
and then in Ho Chi Minh City.
Timing and Duration of Service
The Specialist in Textbook Distribution and Marketing will undertake
his/her task in Project Year 1 and will work for a period of 1 month.



-147-                   a=    15
Page 24 of 46
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION pROJEC.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TEXTBOOK COMPONENT
Terms of Reference: Specialist in PC-Based Desktop Publishing
(1 individual) (expatriate)
Hierarchical Responsibility
The Specialist in PC-Based Desktop Publishing will work in the Education
Publishing House in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, where he/she will report to
the Assistant Project Manager for the Textbook Component (Director of the
Education Publishing House).
Required Oualifications
The Specialist in PC-Based Desktop Publishing should:
1.    be at least 30 years old;
2.    have had training in PC-Based desktop publishing;
3.   have had substantial experience in his/her specialty, with particular
emphasis on desktop publishing -sing an IBM microcomputer and VENTURA
software (knowledge of Local Network, graphics and color, and peripheral
equipment such as the black-white scanner, color scanner, image setter,
and postscript laser writer would be useful);
4.    be fluent in English (knowledge of Vietnamese would be useful); and
5.    be hard-working and able to work well with his/her national
counterparts.
Duties and Responsibilities
The Specialist in PC-Based Desktop Publishing will prepare teaching
materials, computer software, and equipment and will conduct a two-week course
in the skills of word processing, layout, image setting, graphics, and color
processing. The course will be given first in Hanoi and then in Ho Chi Minh
City.
Timing and Duration of Service
The Specialist in PC-Based Desktop Publishing will undertake his/her
task in Project Year 1 and will work for a period of 1 month. He/she will
return to Viet Nam in Project Year 3, also for a period of 1 month.



-148-                   ANNE  1S
Page 25 of 46
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET MAM
TEXTBOK CONPONENT
Terms of Reference: Specialist In Textbook Illustration
(1 individual)(expatriate)
Hierarchical ResponsibilitX
The Specialist in Textbook Illustration will work in the Education
Publishing House in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, where he/she will report to
the Assistant Project Manager for the Textbook Component (Director of the
Education Publishing House).
ReauLred OalifLcations
The Specialist ln Textbook Illustration should:
1.   be at least 30 years old;
2.   have had on-the-job training in textbook illustration;
3.   have at least 10 years of experience in his/her specialty, with at least
5 years ln textbook illustration in a developed country;
4.   be fluent in English (knowledge of Vietnamese would be useful); and
5.   be hard-working and able to work well with hLs/her national
counterparts.
Duties and ResDonsibilities
The Specialist in Textbook Illustration will prepare teachIng materials
and will conduct a two-week course in textbook illustration for about 20
people. The course will be given first in Hanoi and then in Ho Chi NLmh City,
in Project Year 1. The course will be repeated in both cities in Project
Years 2, 3, and 4.
Timing and Duration of Service
The Specialist in Textbook Illustration will undertake his/her task in
Project Year 1, as soon as possible after the project begins, and will work
for a perlod of 1 month. He/she will return to Viet Nam successively in
Project Years 2, 3, and 4, each tLne for a period of one month.



-149-                  AN         15
Page 26 of 46
SQCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NMI
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TEXTBOOK COMPONENT
Terms of Reference:  Specialist in Textbook Manufacture
(1 individual) (expatriate)
Hierarchical Responsibility
The Specialist in Textbook hanufacture will work in the Education
Publishing House in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, where he/she will report to
the Assistant Project Manager for the Textbook Component (Director of the
Education Publishing House).
Required Qualifications
The Specialist in Textbook Manufacture should:
1.   be at least 30 years old;
2.   have had on-the-job training in offset printing techniques;
3.    have had at least 10 years of experience in his/her specialty, with at
least 5 years in textbook printing in a developed country;
4.   have had a good deal of experience with international competitive
bidding procedures;
5.    be fluent in English (knowledge of Vietnamese would be useful); and
6.    be hard-working and able to work well with his/her national
counterparts.
Duties and Resnonsibilities
The Specialist in Textbook Manufacture will prepare teaching materials
and will conduct a two-week course in the technical aspects of textbook
printing for about 20 people. The course will be given first in Hanoi and
then in Ho Chi Minh City in Project Year 1. The course will be repeated in
both cities in Project Year 2.
Timing and Duration of Service
The Specialist in Textbook Manufacture will undertake his/her task in
Project Year 1, as soon as possible after the project begins, and will work
for a period of I month. He/she will return to Viet Nam in Project Year 2,
also for a period of 1 month.



-150-                  ANM  15
Page 27 of 46
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCAXXN PROJECT
TECHNIC"L ASSISShNS
EDUCATION MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM COMPONENT
Terms of Reference: Specialist in School Mapping (1 individual)
(expatriate)
Hierarchical Respgonsibility
The Specialist in School Mapping will work in Hanoi in the Ministry of
Education and Training's Department of Planning and Finance, vhere he/she will
report to the Director. Over the five years of the project, he/she will also
visit most or all of the 24 provinces selected for inclusion in the project,
as needed to carry out his/her tasks and responsibilities.
Reauired Oualifications
The Specialist in School Mapping should:
1.    be at least 25 years old;
2.    have at least a Master's degree or special training in demography,
school mapping, and/or models of statistical representation;
3.    have experience in mapping in the context of educational research;
4.    be fluent in English (a working knowledge of Vietnamese would be
useful); and
5.   be able to work well with his/her national counterparts and be committed
to passing on his/her technical expertise.
Duties and Res2onsibilities
With a view towards improving the flow of information for decision-
making and planning in the education sector, the Specialist in School Mapping
shall carry out the following duties and responsibilities:
1.    Provide technical support to the Vietnamese staff of the Ministry of
Education and Training responsible for completing district school maps
of all districts in the 24 provinces selected for inclusion in the
project.
2.    Teach the Vietnamese staff responsible for completing school maps how to
computerize the information on a school map, once prepared.



-151-                   ANNEX 15
Page 28 of 46
3.    Teach the Vietnamese staff responsible for the school-mapping exercise
how to use the information collected in determining educational needs
and priorities for investment.
Timing and Duration of Services
The Specialist in School Mapping will being his/her work in Viet Nam in
Project Year 1 and will work for a period of 2 months. He/she will return to
Viet Nam in each succeeding Project Year for four years, each time for a
period of 2 months.



-152-                  AMEX 15
Page 29 of 46
SOCIALIST REEUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TEiCHNICAL ASSISTANCE
RATIONALIZATION OF THE PRIMARY EDUCATION NETWORK COMPONENT
Terms of Reference: School Mappers (2 individuals)(Vietnamese)
Hierarchical ResDonsibility
The two School Mappers will work in Hanoi with the (expatriate)
Specialist in School Mapping in the Ministry of Education and Training's
Department of Finance and Planning, where they will report to the Director.
Reguired Oualifications
The School Mappers should:
1.    be at least 25 years old;
2.    have at least some training in education and school mapping;
3.    have experience in educational research and graphic representation;
4.    speak Vietnamese (a knowledge of English and one or more ethnic minority
languages would be useful); and
5.    be able to work well with their national colleagues, minority peoples,
and international counterparts.
Duties and Resgonsibilities
The School Mappers shall assist in doing school mapping in all the 24
provinces selected for inclusion in the project. This activity will help the
Government, Parents' Associations, and potential donors target investments to
the neediest areas, making better use of scarce education resources. It will
also enable the Ministry of Education and Training to develop a long-term plan
for priority investments in education. The exercise should include the
following activities:
1.    Map the existing physical infrastructure in the education sector,
showing classrooms in good condition, those that need repair and the
extent of repairs needed (roof; walls; floor), and those that need to be
replaced entirely.
2.    Undertake a census of existing school furniture and teaching aids,
including data on numbers of children who do not have a complet set of
textbooks.



-153-                  AM  is
Pag 30 of 46
3.    Show on the map the present and projected numbers of enrollments.
4.    Determine the number of children living In the area shown on the map who
are ngt envolled In school, and indicate how far away they live from the
nearest classroom.
S.    Elaborate plans, by district, for maklng more rational use of existing
school facilities.
6.    Calculate (and show on.the map) the needs for now classrooms as well as
repair and replacement of existing classrooms.
7.    Calculate gross and net enrollment ratios by coune, district, and
province at each level of education.
8.   Determine where and to what extent multi-graded teaching methods are
required.
Timing and Duration of Servlee
The School Kappers will work on school mapping continually throughout
the six years of the project.



-154-                  ANNEX 15
Page 31 of 46
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VET Nfi
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASISTANCE
RATIONALIZATION OF THE PRIMARY EDUCATION NETWORK COMPONENT
Terms of Reference: Specialist in Education Planning (1 individual)
(expatriate)
Hierarchical ResRonsibility
The Specialist in Education Planning will work in Hanoi in the Ministry
of Education and Training's Department of Planning and Finance, where he/she
will report to the Director. He/she will travel to several provinces,
districts, communes, and schools, as necessary to carry out his/her tasks and
responsibilities.
Required Oualifications
The Specialist in Education Planning should:
1.    be at least 40 years old;
2.    have at least a Master's degree in education or a related social
science, with special training in the techniques of education analysis
and planning, including ability to analyze and project education
statistics and flows, measure the efficiency of education systems, and
analyze education costs;
3.   have training in the use of computer models in education analysis and
planning;
4.    have at least 15 years of experience in education analysis and planning
in a developing country, preferably in Southeast Asia;
5.    be fluent in English (knowledge of Vietnamese would be useful); and
6.    be able to work well with his/her national counterparts and be able to
produce under tight deadlines.
Duties and Responsibilities
The Specialist in Education Planning shall carry out the following
duties and responsibilities:
1.    In Project Year 1, survey the process of education planning and
information management at the national, provincial, district, and local
levels, and prepare a written report with analysis and recommendations
for improving the system.



-155-                   ANNEX-15
Page 32 of 46
2.    Also in Project Year 1, prepare training materials and develop a one-
week workshop in the most important statistics and information needed
for the management of the primary education system, how to collect it,
and how to process and transmit it. This workshop is intended for
Vietnamese staff working in education planning in the Ministry of
Education and Training (about 10 people), the Provincial Education
Services (1 person per province), and the District Education Services (1
person per district).
3.    In Project Year 2, conduct workshops (8 per year in each of the 4 years)
for the Vietnamese staff mentioned above (about 20 per workshop) in
central locations in different parts of the country.
Timing and Duaation of Service
The Specialist in Education Planning will begin his/her work in Project
Year 1 and will work for a period of 2 months on the first activity mentioned
above and an additional 2 months on the second activity mentioned above.
He/she will return to Viet Nam in Project Year 2 for a period of 2 months to
set up and conduct a workshop (activity #3).



-156-                   AM=  15
Page 33 of 46
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TCHNICAL ASSISTANCE
EDUCATION MANAGEMENT INFORMTION SYSTEM COMPONENT
Terms of Reference: Software Specialist (1 individual) (expatriate)
Higearchical Responsibility
The Software Specialist will work in Hanoi in the Ministry of Education
and Training's Department of Planning and Finance, where he/she will report to
the Director.
-neauired Oulificai=tns
The Software Specialist should:
1.   be at least 40 years old;
2.   have special training in computer software used in Management
Information Systems in the education sector;
3.   have at least 8 years of experience in the development and use of
computer software in Management Information Systems, of which at least 2
years should have been in a developing country with a per capita income
similar to Viet Nam's;
4.    be fluent in English (knowledge of Vietnamese would be useful); and
5.   be able to work well with his/her national counterparts and be committed
to sharing his/her technical expertise.
Duties "an Responsibilities
Following the visit of the Specialist In Education Planning, the
Software Specialist should develop the software appropriate and manuals for
processing and analyzing Vietnamese education statistics and education cost
and finance data.
Timing and Duration of Service
The Software Specialist will begin his/nor work in Project Year 1,
following the visit of the Specialist in Education Planning, and will work for
a period of 3 months.



-157-                   ANNEX 15
Page 34 of 46
SOG=4ST REPUBLIC OF VIET NPA
PRIM!ARY EDUaTION PROWECT
tEgICjAL ASSISTANCE
EDUC=ION MANAGEMEN  INFORMATION SYSTEM COMPOEN
Terms of Reference: Hardware Specialist (1 individual)(expatriat@)
Hierarchigal Responsibility
The Hardware Specialist will work in Hanoi in the Ministry of Education
and Training's Department of Planning and Finance, where he/she will report to
the Director.
Required Qunlifications
The Hardware Specialist should:
1.   be at least 40 years old;
2.   have special training the hardware commonly used for PC-based management
information systems, preferably in the education sector;
3.    have at least 8 years of experience in the development and use of
computer hardware in Management Information Systems, of which at least 2
years should have been in a developing country with a per capita income
similar to Viet Nam's;
4.    be fluent in English (knowledge of Vietnamese would be useful); and
5.    be able to work well with his/her national counterparts and be committed
to sharing his/her technical expertise.
Duties and Responsibilities
The Hardware Specialist will have the following duties and
responsibilities:
1.   After studying the results and recommendations of the Software
Specialist, design the minimal configurations needed to operate an
efficient and cost-effective Education Management Information System,
and draw up a list and specifications of the hardware needed to
facilitate the flow of education statistics and to use the new software.
2.   Help the Assistant Project Manager for Finance and Administration to
prepare the bidding documents to procure this hardware.
3.    Install the hardware and software for the Education Information
Management System.



-158-                   ANEX 15
Page 35 of 46
4.    Train at least five Vietnamese staff in the Department of Planning and
Finance in the use of hardware and software packages provided under the
component.
5.    Be available during the first weeks of the system's operation to assist
with problems, both mechanical and operational.
timing and Duration of Service
The Hardware Specialist will begin his/her work in Project Year 1,
following the work of the Software Specialist, and will work for a period of
1/2 month on the first and second activities mentioned above. He/she will
return to Viet Nam later in ProJect Year 1, after the hardware has been
procured, and will work for a period of 1-1/2 months on the third, fourth, and
fifth activities mentioned above.



-159-                   AN        is
Page 36 of 46
SOCIALIST REpUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
IMPLENTATION COMPONENT
(Project Coordination Unit)
Terms of Reference: Assistant Project Manager for Administration
and Finance (1 individual)(expatriate)
Hierarchical Responsibility
The Assistant Project Manager for Administration and Finance will work
in Hanoi in the Project Coordination Unit, where he/she will report to the
Project Manager. He/she will travel as necessary within Viet Nam to carry out
his/her tasks and responsibilities.
Recnuired Oualifications
The Assistant Project Manager for Administration and Finance should:
1.   be at least 35 years old;
2.   have at least a university diploma and special training in one or more
of the following fields: accounting, management, procurement, personnel
administration;
3.    have at least 5 years of experience in the implementation of development
projects in a developing country, preferably in Southeast Asia;
4.    be fluent in English (knowledge of Vietnamese would be highly
desirable); and
5.    have an entrepreneurial and problem-solving nature, be able to work well
with his/her national counterparts, particularly the Project Manager,
and be willing to devote extra hours to his/her task during peak periods
of activity.
Duties and Responsibilities
The Assistant Project Manager for Administration and Finance will have
the following duties and responsibilities:
1.    Prepare tender documents and oversee the tenders for the procurement of
goods and services in the project.
2.   Assist in setting up the accounting system for the project at the
national, provincial, district, and school level, and ensure that
project accounts are kept up to date and are audited on time.



-160-                   AM    is
Page 37 of 46
3.    Assist the Project Managor and the other Assistant Project Managers in
all aspects of project implementation; take the lead in proposing
solutions for resolving implementation problems.
4.    Prepare and send correspondence, quarterly reports, annual reports, and
the Project Completion Report to keep the project's cofinanciers (World
Bank, World Vision, UNICEF) informed of implementation progress and
existing and potential problems.
Timing and Duration of Service
The Assistant Project Manager for Administration and Finance will carry
out the above duties on a full-time basis over the six years of the project.



-161-                  ANNEX 15
Page 38 of 46
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRI1ARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION COMPONENT
Terms of Reference: Specialist in Appropriate School Construction
Technologies (1 individual)(expatriate)
Hierarchical Responsibility
The Specialist in Appropriate School Construction Technologies will work
in Hanoi in the Ministry of Education and Training's School Research and
Design Institute, where he/she will report to the Director (Assistant Project
Manager for Construction). Three of the Institute's local staff will be
assigned to work on a full-time basis with the Specialist.
Reauired Ouslifications
The Specialist in Appropriate School Construction Technologies should:
1.   be at least 45 years old;
2.   have at least a university diploma in architecture or civil engineering,
with special training in environmentally and technologically appropriate
school construction technologies;
3.   have at least 15 years of experience in school construction in a
developing country, preferably in Southeast Asia (experience in building
schools in regions subject to floods and/or typhoons would be highly
desirable);
4.   be fluent in English (knowledge of Vietnamese would be useful); and
5.   be able to work well with his/her national counterparts and have a
pragmatic, cost-conscious approach to determining appropriate solutions
for construction of schools in a resource-constrained society.
Duties and Responsibilities
The Specialist in Appropriate School Construction Technologies will
undertake a series of activities designed to enable the Ministry of Education.
Provincial Education Services, District Education Services, and school
Parents' Associations to use their money more effectively in providing and
maintaining education infrastructure. (The exercise should also provide
useful results for other infrastructure sectors.) Specifically, he/she will
have the following duties and responsibilities:



-162-                  AMEX 15
Page 39 of 46
1.    Study and develop appropriate construction technologies needed to build
tyDhoon-resistant schools, particularly in the cities along Viet Nam's
coast, which is subject to typhoons. (Many schools built recently by
the education authorities and by external donors have been destroyed by
typhoons, although some other buildings in these areas have lasted for
centuries.)
2.    Study and develop appropriate construction technologies needed to build
flood-resistant schools, particularly in tle Mekong Delta, which is
subject to annual flooding. (The present practice of building "tempo-
rary" schools which need major repairs every year and replacement every
second or third year is not cost-effective.)
3.    Study and develop appropriate construction solutions consistent with
local resources, and combining reliance on local materials and
traditional building techniques with the findings of contemporary
research, for other parts of Viet NaM (in particular, for the mountain
areas and for other urban areas, i.e., those not subject to typhoons).
4.    Develop suitable maintenance procedures and maintenance manuals
appropriate for different types of schools and different parts of the
country (urban and rural areas in the North, Center, and South; Mekong
Delta; coastal areas; mountain areas; etc.), setting forth appropriate
routine and preventive maintenance procedures to be undertaken by school
personnel.
5.    Elaborate a short training course (to be taught by Vietnamese staff of
the School Design and Construction Institute) in appropriate routine and
preventive maintenance procedures for different types of construction,
to be offered to principals and teachers in all schools benefiting from
civil works under the project (and, later, to principal and teachers of
other schools as well).
Timing and Duration of Service
The Specialist in Appropriate School Construction Technologies will
begin his/her work in Project Year 1 and will work for a period of 3 months on
the first activity mentioned above, 3 months on the second activity, 3 months
on the third activity, and 3 months on the fourth and fifth activities.



-163-                  ANNEX 15
Page 40 of 46
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONSTRUCTION COMPONENT
Terms of Reference: Specialist in School Sanitation (1 individual)
(expatriate)
Hierarchical Responsibility
The Specialist in School Sanitation will work in Hanoi in the Ministry
of Education and Training's School Research and Design Institute, where he/she
will report to the Director (Assistant Project Manager for Construction).
Three of the Institute's local staff will be assigned to work on a full-time
basis with the Specialist.
Reuired oJualifications
The Specialist in School Sanitation should:
1.    be at least 40 years old;
2.   have at least a university diploma in public health, architecture, or
civil engineering, with special training in environmentally and
technologically appropriate public sanitation technologies;
3.   have at least 5 years of experience in public health or sanitation in a
developing country, preferably in Southeast Asia;
4.    be fluent in English (knowledge of Vietnamese would be useful);
5.    be able to work well with his/her national counterparts and have a
pragmatic, cost-conscious approach to determining appropriate solutions
for school sanitation in a resource-constrained society; and
6.   have a demonstrated desire to protect and conserve the environment.
Duties and Resonasibilities
The work of the Specialist in School Sanitation will enable school
managers to provide a healthier environment to school children, in both
existing and new schools, particularly schools in the Nekong Delta, where
annual flooding takes place and where many schools are located in the midst of
areas of standing water, but also schools in mountain areas and schools in
crowded urban areas. He/she will have the following duties and
responsibilities:



-164-                   ANNE  15
Page 41 of 46
1.    Design appropriate technologies for construction and maintenance of
suitable latrines in those areas of the Mekong Delta subject to annual
flooding.
2.    Develop appropriate procedures for disposal of garbage in those areas of
the Mekong Delta subject to annual flooding.
3.    Design appropriate technologies for provision of safe drinking water in
those areas of the Mekong Delta subject to annual flooding.
4.    Test and develop environmentally appropriate procedures for sRraving fox
noxious insects (e.g., mosquitoes and termites) in those areas of the
Mekong Delta or the mountains subject to such pests.
5.    Develop suitable maintenance procedures and maintenance manuals
appropriate for latrines and water supply in different parts of the
country (urban and rural areas in the North, Center, and South; Mekong
Delta; mountain areas; etc.), setting forth appropriate routine and
preventive maintenance procedures to be undertaken by school personnel.
6.    Elaborate training courses for school principals and teachers in the
appropriate maintenance of these facilities and the implementation of
the new procedures. These courses should include specific guidance to
teachers on how to demonstrate to students (a) the proper use and
maintenance of latrines and (b) other routine measures to keep the
school environment clean and healthy.
Timing and Duration of Service
The Specialist in School Sanitation will begin his/her work in Project
Year 1 and will work for a period of 9 months.



-165-                   AM    15
Page 42 of 46
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NA1
PRtIMARY EDUCATION PROJE£
TESHNICAL ASSISTANCE
MONITORING AND ASSESSE   COMQN
Terms of Reference: Assessment Specialist (1 individual)(expatriate)
Hierarchical Responsibility
The Assessment Specialist will work in Hanoi in the Ministry of
Education and Training's Department of General Education, where he/she will
report to the Director.
Required Oualifications
The Assessment Specialist should:
1.    be at least 35 years old;
2.    have at least a university degree in education, statistics, or a related
social science and also have had special training in techniques of
sampling and educational assessment;
3.   have at least 10 years of experience in the field of educational
assessment, preferably at least part of it in one or more developing
countries;
4.    have a broad understanding of the potential and limitations of census-
and sample-based assessments and testing programs;
5.    have a knowledge of (a) the various possible designs of instruments to
use for assessments and testing programs and (b) the kinds of data and
contextual information they can yield;
6.   understand how assessment projects can be developed, organized, and
implemented;
7.    be fluent in English (knowledge of Vietnamese would be useful); and
8.    be able to work well with his/her national counterparts but have
sufficient strength of personality to insist that the exercise be
carried out in a manner which will not compromise the results.
Duties and Responsibilities
Working in tandem with the Statistical Data Analyst, the Assessment
Specialist will have the following duties and responsibilities:



-166-                    ANNEX 15
Page 43 of 46
1.    Explain in detail to the Vietnamese educational authorities the
procedures and activities to be undertaken for a national assessment of
primary education.
2.    Oversee the collection of information on pupil, teacher, and school
backgrounds using questionnaires.
3.    Assist in organizing committees of teaciers and experts to write test
questions, manuals containing directions for administering the assess-
ment, and scoring guides.
4.    Oversee the pre-testing of the test questions in a small number of
schools and the revision of the test questions on the basis of the pre-
testing results.
5.    Oversee the preparation of final test questions, manuals containing
directions for administering the assessment, and scoring guides.
6.   Organize the preparation of a list of all primary or basic-education
schools in the country and oversee the separation of the schools on the
list into 'strata." Oversee the random selection of schools and
alternate schools for the assessment, the preparation of lists of all
pupils in Grades 3 and 5 in the selected schools, and the random
selection of students in each selected school.
7.    Assist in selecting and then train 25-50 test administrators. Insist
that the assessment be administered using rigorous, standardized
procedures. Develop quality-control procedures for use at 25% of the
schools.
S.    Assist in selecting professional scorers, and train them to score the
tests using scoring guides. Insist on standardized procedures for
scoring.
9.    Assist in preparing a data base by entering pupils' responses and data
from the pupil, teacher, and school questionnaires.
10.   Oversee the carrying out of the following analyses:  (a) an item
analysis of the results for every question; (b) bias analyses (gender;
region; ethnic minority group); (c) a percent correct analysis; (d) sub-
group analyses (gender; rural/urban; type of teacher; etc.); and (e)
analyses of relationships with family, home, and school factors.
11.   Teach a committee of experts, teachers, and administrators how to
analyze the findings. Oversee the writing and publishing of a report(s)
and the calling of a press conference to announce the publication of the
report.
Timing and Duration of Service
There will be 19 visits of varying duration to Viet Nam over a six-year
period by one or the other of the two specialists, according to the following
schedule:



-167-                   ANNEX 15
Page 44 of 46
First Two-Year Cycle
Month #1:     Assessment Specialist      2 weeks       Duties #1 & 2
Month #2:     Statistical Data Analyst  2 weeks        Duties #3 & 6
Month #7:     Assessment Specialist      4 weeks       Duty #4
Month #8:     Assessment Specialist      2 weeks       Duty #5
Month #12:    Assessment Specialist      2 weeks       Duty #7
Month #14:    Assessment Specialist      2 weeks       Duty #8
Month #15:    Statistical Data Analyst  4 weeks        Duty #9
Month #18:    Statistical Data Analyst  2 weeks        Duty #10
Month #20:    Assessment Specialist      1 week        Duty #11
Second Two-Year Cycle
Month #25:    Assessment Specialist      2 weeks       Duties #1, 2 & 6
Month #31:    Assessment Specialist      3 weeks       Duties #3 & 4
Month #36:    Assessment Specialist      1 wee'.       Duties #5 & 7
Month #39:    Statistical Data Analyst  3 weeks        Duties #9 & 10
Month #44:    Assessment Specialist      3 weeks       Duty #11
Third Two-Year Cycle
Month #49:    Assessment Specialist      2 weeks       Duties # 1, 2 & 6
Month #55:    Assessment Specialist      1 week        Duties #3 & 4
Month #60:    Assessment Specialist      1 week        Duties #5, 7 & 8
Month #63:    Statistical Data Analyst  3 weeks        Duties #9 & 10
Month #68:    Assessment Specialist      2 weeks       Duty #11



-168-                   AM=  is
Page 45 of 46
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRFMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT COMPOENT
Terms of Reference: Statistical Data Analyst (1 individual)(expatriate)
Hierarchical Responsibility
The Statistical Data Analyst will work in Hanoi in the Ministry of
Edication and Training's Department of General Education, where he/she will
report to the Director.
deouired Oualifications
The Statistical Data Analyst should:
1.   be at least 35 years old;
2.   have at least a university degree in education, statistics, or a related
social science and also have had special training in techniques.of
sampling and educational assessment;
3.    have at least 10 years of experience in the field of educational
assessment, preferably at least part of it in one or more developing
countries;
4.    have a detailed understanding of (a) sample selection procedures, (b)
data base organization, (c) data analysis procedures, and (d) data
reporting techniques;
5.    be able and willing to train local staff in (a) the use of the skills
mentioned immediately above and (b) the operation of specific computer
programs designed to assist in the performance of these tasks;
6.    be fluent in English (knowledge of Vietnamese would be useful); and
7.    be able to work well with his/her national counterparts, but have
sufficient strength of personality to insist that the exercise be
carried out in a manner which will not compromise the results.
Duties and Responsibilities
Working in tandem with the Assessment Specialist, the Statistical Data
Analyst will have the following duties and responsibilities:



-169-
Page 46 of 46
1.    Explain in detail to the Vietnamese educational authorities the
procedures and activities to be undertaken for a national assessment of
primary education.
2.    Oversee the collection of information on pupil, teacher, and school
backgrounds using questionnaires.
3.    Assist in organizing committees of teachers and experts to write test
questions, manuals containing directions for administering the assess-
ment, and scoring guides.
4.    Oversee the pre-testing of the test questions in a small number of
schools and the revision of the test questions on the basis of the pre-
testing results.
5.    Oversee the preparation of final test questions, manuals containing
directions for administering the assessment, and scoring guides.
6.    Organize the preparation of a list of all primary or basic-education
schools in the country and oversee the separation of the schools on the
list into "strata." Oversee the random selection of schools and
alternate schools for the assessment, the preparation of lists of all
pupils in Grades 3 and 5 in the selected schools, and the random
selection of students in each selected school.
7.    Assist in selecting and then train 25-50 test administrators. Insist
that the assessment be administered using rigorous, standardized
procedures. Develop quality-control procedures for use at 25% of the
schools.
8.    Assist in selecting professional scorers, and train them to score the
tests using scoring guides. Insist on standardized procedures for
scoring.
9.    Assist in preparing a data base by entering pupils' responses and data
from the pupil, teacher, and school questionnaires.
10.   Oversee the carrying out of the following analyses:  (a) an item
analysis of the results for every question; (b) bias analyses (gender;
region; ethnic minority group); (c) a percent correct analysis; (d) sub-
group inalyses (gender; rural/urban; type of teacher; etc.); and (e)
analyses of relationships with family, home, and school factors.
11.   Teach a committee of experts, teachers, and administrators how to
analyze the findings. Oversee the writing and publishing of a report(s)
and the calling of a press conference to announce the publication of the
report.
Timing and Duration of Service
There will be 19 visits of varying duration to Viet Nam over a six-year
period by one or the other of the two specialists, according to the schedule
presented in the Terms of Reference for the Assessment Specialist:



.
SOClALIST REPU8LIC OF VIET NAM
PtIMAtRY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 1. Textbooks
btoiled Coeet
(USS)
Quantities                                             Totals Including Contin encies (Illion)
Unit     1994       1995        1996       1997       1998       1999       Total   Unlt Cost 1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total
Z. Inaveset oseta
A. baA10e  a.L_to.
1. Desktop Publishing                S-t           1          -           1           *         -           -          2 12,000.00  0.01     -  0.01      -     -     - 0.03
2. Textbook Illustration             S-M           1           1          1          1                      -          4 12,000.00  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01      -     -  0.06
3. Textbook Printing                 S-M           1          1           -          -          -           -          2 12,000.00  0.01  0.01      -     -     -     -  0.03
4. Management of Publishing          S-M           1           -          -          -          -           -          1 12,000.00  0.01      -     -     -     -     -  0.01
5. Marketing and Distribution        S-M           1           -          -          -          -           -          1 12,000.00  0.01      -     -     -     -     -  0.01
Id*otal                                                                                                                                 0.07  -0.03  0.03  0.01    -      -  0.14
B. 3wui_   t
1. For EP14                          Amt                                                                                            0.36      -     -     -     _     -  0.36
2. For Provincial School Libraries  Set            -       13.25      13.25      13.25       13.25          -         53  4,000.00      -  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.07     -  0.26
subtotle                                                                                                                                0.36  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.07      -  0.61
C. bafaiw
1. Study Visits for 5 /a            Cand           5           -          -          -          -           -          5  6,000.00  0.03      -     -     -     -     -  0.03
2. Study Visits for 35 lb           Cand           11          9          8          5           2          _         35  2,000.00  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.01  0.01      -  0.08
3. Workshops /c                     Wkshp          2           2          2          2          2           -         10  4,000.00  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01         0.05
subtota                   Sb-1g                                                                                                          0.07  o0.03 T0.03  o0.02 -0.02    7-1- 
D. babed tzoSuatlou6{
1. Standard Textbooks               Txtbk          - 15,606,000 22,710,000 22,677,000 17,886,000            - 78,879,000      0.23     -  3.17  5.55  6.67  6.33      - 21.71
2. Ethnic Textbooks                 Txtbk     89,800      91,600     93,400     95,300     97,200           -    467,300      0.21  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.03  0.03      -  0.12
3. Workbooks                        Txtbk 17,340,000 17,687,000 18,041,000 18,401,000 18,769,000            - 90,238,000      0.06  0.78  0.96  1.18  1.44  1.17      -  6.13
4. Teachers' Guides                 Txtbk          -    328,000    528,000    528,000    415,000            -  1,799,000      0.46      -  0.13  0.26  0.31  0.29     -  1.00
5. Ethnic Teachers' Guides          Txtbk      8,200      8,300       8,500      8,700      8,800           -     42,500      0.42  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.01  0.01      -  0.02
Subtoa6 0.80  4.29  7.01  8.45  8.43                                                                                                                                      - 28.98
@Taw                                                                                                                                         1.2-9  4.41  7.13  8.56  8.51     - 29.90
\a 2-week study visit to developed countries
\b 10-day study visit to neighboring countries
\c Two 2-week workshops per year (Hanoi/Ro Chi Minh City) for 20 participants
\d Unit costs represent average of annually escalated production :osts for five years
Tue Sep 21 14:16:37 1993
1-1 Textbooks



SCIALIST RUMrC oF VlEr NX
PRDUR  EDUCATrON P.TOECT
table 2. Teaching Alds for Schools
Qatitles                   Unit Totals rncludipo Contingnce  (ihin
Unit     1994  19t5  199SI99   199   1q99 Total Cost 1994  1995  1996  1997 1998  19A _Ttal
2. X".         6  bts
A. competitions         Competitions      -  26.S       -  26.5      -      -    53 2,000      - 0.06      - 0.06     -    - 0.11
D. S3sp St
1. Competitiou Prizes Competitions     -  26.5       -  26.S      -      -     53 3,000    - 0.09       - 0.10     -    - 0.19
2. School Packages       Set           -  4,290  4,290  4,420     -      - 13,000   300    -  1.49  I.S3 1.62      -    -  4.65
vt"ta                                                                                               -   .6-4  1.53  17-9         -49
Tue Sep 21 14:19:34 1993
1-1 Teaching Aids for Schools
0 



SocIALIST REFUSLIC OF VIET Mm
PRDRY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 3. Teacher Training Inputs
Deb_ed c0st.
(US$1
~~aant1ties        Unit Total Icudn  Contineencles (million)
Unit     1994  199S  1996  199_  1998  1999  Total Cost  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total
Z. Xnwe  at Coots
a. ammmxa  Stuilez S7 Celee
1. Grants                            Grant         -    28    29     -     -      -    57 2,000     -  0.06  0.07      -     -      -  0.13
2. Publication of Research        Publication      -    28    29     -      -     -    57     6      -  0.00  0.00     -     -      -  0.00
3. Workshops (Dissemination) /a      Wkshp         -     -     4     4     -      -     B 4,000     -      -  0.02  0.02     -      -  0.04
BObtetal                                                                                                -  0.07  0.09  0.02      -     -  0.17
B. squimentt £e 57 SEC3s.e
1. Equipment for 57 Schools           Set          -    20    29     -     -      -    57 3,000      -  0.10  0.10     -     -      -  0.20
2. For Research /b                    Set          -    28    29     -     -      -    57 1,000      -  0.03  0.03     -     -      -  0.07
stol                                                                                                         -  0.19  0.23  0.02      -     -  0.44
\a 2-week workshop for about 20 participants to discuss field expertences
\b Manual typewriters and reprographic equipment to prepare and reproduce field observations
Tue Sep 21 14:19:36 1993                                                                                                                                                 -4
2-1 Teacher Training Inputs
*
* ,_
OD 0U



S8CIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET KAM
PRJMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 4. Minority Education Inputs
Catauls OastA
(US$)
Quantities                    Unit  Totals Includin_  Contingencies tYillion)
Unit  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total  Cost  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total
S.   S     _ye  t a t
A. Uqtmmt a weSaq*  mteztsa
1. For Ethnic Minor. Center               Set       -      1            -           -      1 30,000      -  0.03      -      -     -      -  0.03
2. For Three Teacher Training Schools  Set          -      3     -      -     -      -     3 20,000      -  0.07      -      -     -         0.07
3. For 400 multigrade schools             Set    100   100   100   100        -     -   400  2,000  0.23  0.23  0.24  0.24         -      -  0.94
dtetA*1                                                                                                  0.23  0.34  0.24  0.24        -     -  1.04
D. 3edSeAs  Aaseustas
1. 3tase lneatt 1 1_G
a. Foreign Specialists                 S-M       -     a    16    16       -     -    40 12,000       -  0.11  0.23  0.23       -      -  0.57
b. Local Specialists                   S-H       -   176    88    48       a     -   320    S00       -  0.10  0.05  0.03  0.01        -  0.19
sJbteta1                                                                                                 -  0.21  0.2e  0.26  0.02.       -  0.76
2. ZSdqmea _     tbagUir
a. Foreign Specialists                 S-M       -     I      -     -      - -          1 12,000      -  0.01      -      -     -      -  0.01
b. Local Specialists                   S-M       -     4      -     -      -     -      4    S00      -  0.00      -      -     -   _    0.00
Sobteta1                                                                                                 -         0.02  -   -     -      -  0.02
3.   etid  
a. Foreign Specialists                 S-M       1     -      -                  -      112,000  0.01       -      -     -      -     -  0.01
b. Local Specialists                   S-M      32     -      -     -      -     -    32    500  0.02        -     -     -      -         o.a2
*w2dtetAl                                                                                            -d0.03     -     -      -     -      -      3
4. cozzicalin
a. Foreign Specialists                 S-M   0.75      -   0.5      -      -     -  1.25 12,000  0.01        -  0.01      -     -      -  0.02
S. 1>tb. T-m_  _=Ogzq_
a. Local Specialists                   S-M       -     -    24    24       -     -    48    S00       -      -  0.01  0.01      -      -  0.03
C. 3 attem  a1 tegLa1u
a. Local Specialists                   S-M       4     -      -     -      -     -      4    S00  0.00      -      -     -      -     -  0.00
. I        Z ules
a. Local Specialists                   S-M      48    48    24    24       8     -   152    500  0.03  0.03  0.01  0.01  0.01          -  0.09
ed*4*41b                                                                                                0.07  0.26  0.32  0.29  0.01        -  0.95
C. Wmaing
1. For Center Staff                      Cand       -     5      5     -      -     -    10  1,000       -  0.01  0.01       -     -      -  0.01
2. For Provincial Staff /a               Wtshp      -      3     3      3     3     -    12  4,000       -  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.02        -  0.06
3. For Multigrade Teachers lb            Ukshp      -     3    15    1S    15       -    48  2,000       -  0.01  0.04  0.04  0.04        -  0.12
8*Ae*t 3                                                                                                     -  0.03  0.06 _0.05  0.05       -  0-.9
ebtal                                                                                                          0.30  0.62  0.617  0.59  0.06       -  2.18
\a 2-week woerkshops for provincial staff (in groups of 20)
\b 1-week workshops for multigrade teachers (in groups of 20)
Tue Sep 21 13:59:19 1993
1-1 Minority Education Inputs
Ftf



SOCrALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAN
PRMRY  EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 5. Major City Schools
Det&lld Coots
(USS)
Quantities                           Unlt  Totals Including Contingencies (Million)
Unit    1994    1995    1996    1997    199S    1999    Total   Cost  1994  1995  1996  1991  1998  1999  otal
Z.  M     et  Cot
A. C$wl ~s
1. Repair Classrooms                      Clrm    166.25  498.75        -        -       -        -     665  1,588  0.30  0.92       -     -     -      -  1.21
2. Replace & New Classrooms               Clrm      121.5   364.5        -       -        -       -     486  3,175  0.43  1.34       -     -     -      -  1.77
3. Water Systems                         System        18      54       -        -       -        -      12  1,000  0.02  0.06       -     -     -      -  0.08
4. Latrines                              Latrine   359.5 1,078.5             -       -            -   1,438    100  0.04  0.12       -     -     -      -  0.17
Subtotal                                                                                                                0. 79  2.44     -     -      -     -  3.24
B. Site Development                           Amt                                                                       0.12  0.37      -     -      -     -  0.49
C. Set of Classrooms Furniture                Set    287.75  863.25         -       -        -       -   1,151    500  0.16  0.50              -     -        0.66
0. labma  A_inta m
2..  beom  WeIs±tame L
a. Foreign Experts                      S-N      0.75    2.25         -       -       -        -       3 12,000  0.01  0.03       -     -     -      -  0.04
b. Local Experts                        S-M       2.25    6.75        -       -       -        -       9    500  0.00  0.00       -     -     -      -  0.01
5hkfSybe1                                                                                                            0.01  0.04      -     -     -      -  0.05
2.  a"a4tatiom  Lb
a. Foreign Experts                      S-M      0.75    2.25        -        -       -        -       3 12,000  0.01  0.03       -     -     -      -  0.04
b. Local Experts                        S-M       2.25    6.75        -       -       -        -       9    500  0.00  0.00       -     -     -      -  0.01
subtotal                                                                                                             0.01  0.04      -     -     -      -  0.05
lubtotal                                                                                                                0.02  0.07      -     -      -     -  0.09
*. UaDag
1. Maintenance/Sanitation Workshops /c  Wkshp         7.2     7.2      7.2     7.2     7.2        -      36  2,000  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02        -  0.09
3eta1 1.11  3.40  0.02  0.02  0.02                                                                                                                              -  4.56
\a To assist in the design of improved typhoon resisting structures, including preparing maintenance manuals and conducting training courses.
\b To assist in the design of improved sanitation systems
\c 1-week workshops for 20 participants (2 per school)
Tue Sep 21 14:06:36 1993
1-1 Major City Schools
* I



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIE? NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Tabte 6. Mekong Delta Schools
Oetalld Costs
(USS)
qQuan.tities,                 Unit  Totals Includln6a Continaenciesi(Million)
unit   1994  1995  1996  1997  1999  1999  Total  Cost  1994  1995  1996  197  1996   999  Total
s. Zaateet
A. Civl Wgza
1. Repair Classrooms                      Clrm        - 1,998      -      -     -      - 1,998  1,091      -  2.52      -     -      -     -  2.52
2. Replace a New Classrooms                Clrm       - 2,973      -      _     _      - 2,973  2,182      -  7.51      -     _      _     _  7.51
3. Water Systems                         System       -   497      -      -     -      -   497  1,000      -  0.58      -                     0.58
4. Latrines                              Latrine      - 4,971      -      -     -      - 4,971    100      -  0.58      -     -   _      _    0.58
8ubt*a                                                                                                        - 11.19      -     -      -     - 11.19
B. Site Development                            Amt                                                            -  1.68      -     -      -     -  1.68
C. Set of Classrooms Furniture                 Set        - 4,971      -     _     _      - 4,971    500      -  2.88      -      _     -     -  2.88
D. Technlicl a.Antaeo.
1. Vloed 3astiU  Oomatzuatiom /a
a. Foreign Experts                       S-M       -      3     -     -      -     -      3 12,000      -  0.04     -      -     -      -  0.04
b. Local Experts                        S-M.       -      9                        -      9    500      -  0.01     -      -     -      -  0.01
SubtotaL                                                                                                   -            -     -      -        0.05
2. SanltatiAm /b
a. Foreign Experts                      S-M        -      3     -     -      -     -      3 12,000      -  0.04     -                      0.04
b. Local Experts                        S-M        -      9     -     -      -     -      9    500      -  0.01      -                     0.01
SbtotaL                                                                                                    -  0.05      -     -      -        0.05
Subtotal                                                                                                      -  0.09         -         -     -  0.09
B. !aag
1. Maintenance/Sanitation Workshops /c  Wkshp         -    48      -     -      -     -    48  2,000       -  0.11     -      -     -      -  0.11
fetal                                                                                                              - 15.95      -      -     -      - 15.95
\a To assist in the design of improved structures flood prone areas, including preparation of maintenance manuals and conducting training courses.
\b To assist in the design of improved sanitation systems
\c 1-week workshops for 20 participants (2 per school)
Tue Sep 21 14:19:39 1993
3-1 Mekong Delta Schools
O H



SCCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRDIMR EDUCATION PROJECT
T$ble 7. Mountainous Area Schools
(USS)
Quantities                    Unit  Totals Ineluding Contingencies (Million)
Unit    1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total  Cost  1994  1995  1996  1997  1999  1999  Total
2. :moS    t  @bxt
A. CIVIL Wafts
1. Repair Classrooms                     Classroom      -      - 1,546      -     -      - 1,546  1,053      -     -  1.94      -      -     -  1.94
2. Replace 6 New Classrooms               Classroom      -     - 2,703      -     -      - 2,703  2,105      -      -  6.77     -            -  6.77
3. Nater Systems                           System        -     -   567         -         -   567  1,000      -     -  0.68      -      -     -  0.68
4. Latrines                                Latrine       -     - 5,666      -     -      - 5,666    100      -      -  0.67     -   I        -  0.67
Subtotal                                                                                                        -      - 10.06      -     -     - 10.06
B. Site Development                             Amt                                                             -      -  1.51      -     -     -  1.51
C. Set of Classrooms furniture                  Set         -     - 4.249      -      -     -4,249    500       -      -  2.53      -     -     -  2.53
D. fee|dmiea hini*tinem
1. WItAgwaf. Clasaom tnasAx  /a
a. Foreign Experts                        S-M        -      -     3      -     -     -      3 12,000      -     -  0.04      -      -     -  0.04
b. Local Experts                          S-M        -      -     9      -     -      -     9    500      -     -  0.01      -      -     -  0.01
ablerbl                                                                                                      -      -  0.05      -     -     - M   0.05
S. Iaaltat.elm  lb
a. Foreign Experts                        S-"4       -      -     3            -     -      3 12,000      -     -  0.04      -      -     -  0.04                0%
b. Local Experts                          S-M        -      -     9      -     -     -      9    500      -   I    0.01      -      -     -  0.01
Subtotal.                                                                                                        - -  0.05              -   - -  0.05
sbtota                                                                                                          -      -  0.10      -     -     -  0.10
3. baaa
1. Maintenance/Sanitation Wortshops /c   Wkshp           -     -    48      -     -      -    48  2,000      -     -  0.11             -     -  0.11
lotal                                                                                                                 -     - 14.31      -      -     - 14.31
\a To assist in the design of multigrade schools, including preparation of maintenance manuals and conducting training courses.
\b To assist in the design of improved sanitation systems
\c 1-weetk orkshops for 20 participants (2 per school)
Tue Sep 21 14:19:43 1993
4-1 Mountainous Area Schools



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAN
PRIHXRY EDUCATION PRIJECT
Table S. Network Rationalization
Ietalled Cos
(USO)
Quantities                       Unit  Totals Includins Contingencies (Million)
Unit   1994   1995   1996   1997   1996   1999  Total   Cost  1994   1995  1996  1997  199S  1999  Total
X. t Oged
a. wm_l aalotmm
s. otal o
a. Foreign Specialists              S-1        2      2       2      2       2      -      10 12,00(0  0.03  0.03  0.03  0.03  0.03       -  0.14
b. Local Specialists                S-M       24     24      24     24      24     24    144    50S  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.02  0.02  0.09
gdtgtal                                                                                                   0.0-4  40.04  r0.04  T0.04  0.05  6 0.02  0.2-3
2. Ndmbtemal 3la.sim
a. Foreign Specialists              S-N        4      2       -      -       -      -       6 12,000  0.05  0.03       -     -     -      -  0.0S
b. Local Specialists                S-M        3      3       3      -       -      -       9    500  0.00  0.00  0.00       -     -      -  0.01
adYttal                                                                                                   0.06  0.03  0.00      -      -     -  0.09
*Fib^^-'                                                                                                     0.10  6.07   0.04 -0.04  0.05  0.0f2  0. 3f2
D. fralSa
1.za-eeuAta  fxtam4M
a. Training of Administrators /a Cand   4,000  4,000  4,000  4,000  4,000           - 20,000      42  0.19  0.19  0.20  0.21  0.21        -  1.00
b. Languame Training                Ant                                                                0.06     -      -     -      -     -  0.06
C. Equipment Use                    hAt                                                                0.06     -      -     -     -      -  0.06
ndybttal                                                                                                  0.30  0.19  0.20  0.21  0.21       -  1. 1l1
2. @ueWeaa 41"Jai
a. For 30 Key Staff  /b            Cand       30      -       -      -       -      -      30  6,000  0.20      -      -     -     -      -  0.20
b. For 110 key staff /c            Cand      110      -       ^      -       -      -    110  1,640  0.20       -      -     -     -      -  0.20
c. For 500 Key Staff /d            Cand      500      -                                   500  1,080  0.61   -         -   -     _        -  0.61
Iubt.ta3                                                                                                  1.01     -            -            -1.01
2010t.*a                                                                                                     1.32  0.19  0.20 -0.21  0.21       -  2.13
ofeal                                                                                                              1.41  0.27  X.24  0.25  0.26  0.02  2.44
ta 2-week training of key staff in the use of coputers
\b Study visits for provincial education managers to industrialized countries (2-months)
\c Study visits to neighboring countries (40 managers and 20 multigrade teachers from mountain areas and 50 others)
\d Study visits for 500 headmasters and school principals
Tue Sep 21 14:19:47 1993
5-2 Network Rationalization
,,
* I
'II



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF V7ET NXA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROECT
Table 9. Education Information System
00talle Ceeta
(USS)
Quantities                     Unit  Totals Including Contingencies (million)
Unkit  1994  1995  1996  1997  1996  1999  Total  Cost  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total
Z. Zoaveinmt Ceeta
v a _5int a e_tem
1. Computers for MDET                                    Set      15      -                               15  7,000  0.12       -      -     -      -      -  0.12
2. Computers for Provincial Offices                      Set      53      -     -      -      -     -    53  1,000  0.42                  -      -            0.42
3. Fax and Office Equipment for Provincial Offices  Set           75      -     -      -      -     -    75  2,000  0.17        -      -     -      -     -  0.17
4. Photocopiers for MOET                                 set       2                                       2  7,000  0.02       -      -     -      -     -  0.02
5. Photocopiers for Provincial Offices                   Set    100       -     -      -      -     -   100  5,000  0.56        -      -     -      -     -  0.56
6. Miscellaneous Items (including vehicles)              Aut                                                          1.20                -      -     -      1.20
steft l                                                                                                                  2.48      -      -      -     -      -  2.48
B. tsiei Sumatons"t
2. Z    _mte   egt
a. Expatriate Specialists (Software) /a               S-M       3      -     -      -     -      -      3 12,000  0.04       -     -      -      -     -  0.04
b. Expatriate Specialists (hardware) lb               S-H       2      -     -      -     -      -      2 12,000  0.03       -     - - -                   0.03
Jib*eta 1                                                                                                              0 0    -   - -                -        0.07
C. Training /c                                             Wkshp       2     2      2     2      2      -    10  2,000  0.00  D.00  0.00  0.00  0.01          -  0.02
btotl                                                                                                                          2.55  0.00 -0.00  0.00  0.01         -  2.57             -4
\a To develop or advise on system software for the information system
\b To advise on hardware requirements and install system software and train staff
\c 1-week workshops for 20 participants
Tue Sep 21 14:01:20 1993
2-1 Education Information System



S0CIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET HAM
PR11ARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 10. Monitoring s Assessment
Detiled costs
(US$)
Quantities                        Unit  Totals Including Contingencies (Million)
Unit      1994   1995   1996   1997   1999   1999  Total   Cost  1994  1995  1996  1997  1999  1999  Total
z. Xnve.  t costs
a.   bmsu liam  Aastamo_
1. Expatriate Specialists /a    S-M             4       3       2       2    1.5       -   12.5 12,000 0.054 0.042 0.029 0.029 0.023          - 0.176
2. Local Specialists               S-M         30      30      30      30     30       -    150    500 0.017 0.017 0.018 0.018 0.019           - 0.089
Sd*tetal                                                                                                    0.071 0.059 0.046 0.048 0.042         - 0.266
D. Uqula4nt
1. Computer Hardware               Amt                                                                   0.034      -      -     -      _     _ 0.034
2. Computer Software               Amt                                                                   0.034 0.035       -     -      -     - 0.069
Sgd*bAal                                                                                                    0.068 0.035       -     -      -      - 0.102
C. Training                           S-M           3       3      3       3       -       -     12  2,500 0.008 0.009 0.009 0.009         -      - 0.035
D. 33iat4Lo
1. Tests                          Tests       800 16,000    800 16,000 16,000          - 49,600        1 0.000 0.009 0.000 0.010 0.010        - 0.030
2. Reports                       Reports        -  3,500        -  3,500  3,500        - 10,500        2     - 0.008      - 0.009 0.009       - 0.025
3. Summaries                    Summaries       - 13,000        - 13,000 13,000        - 39,000        1     - 0.008       - 0.008 0.008      - 0.024
4. Manuals                       Manuals       50       -      50       -     50       -    150        2 0.000      - 0.000   - 0.000   - 0.000
uJsvbt*W                                                                                                    0.001 0.025 0 001 0.026 0427          - 0.080 
1. Development                     hat                                                                   0.005                  I--     -       0.005
2. Management                      Amt                                                                   0.002      -      -     -      -     - 0.002
3. Distribution of Tests          Tests         -    400        -    400    400        -  1,200        5     - 0.002       - 0.002 0.003      - 0.007
Sud*btol                                                                                                    0.006 0           - 0.002 0.003       - 0.013
!etk.                                                                                                             0.154 0.130 0.056 0.086 0.071         - 0.496
\a One Assessment Specialist and one Statistical Analyst for about 42 work-weeks
Tue Sep 21 14:19:51 1993
6-1 Monitoring & Assessment                                                                         a)
O0



SOCIALIST flPUBLIC OF VIEt NAN
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table II. Xmplm_tation Capacity
Def_e Cot
(US0
"iantities                    Unit  totals Includina Contingencies (NillionL
Unit  1994  199S  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total  Cost  1994  199   1996  199?  1998  1999  Total
2. 2wwst Cost
la. it coogdiaatlem
1. Uqaem
a. Computers & Office Equlpment  Set         5     -      -     -      -     -     5  7,000  0.04          -     -      -     -      0.04
b. Miscellaneous ltems             Amt                                                        0.06   _      _        -   _     _    0.06
Sdtota                                                                                           0.10      -     -      -     -      -  0.10
2. woohni.aa  AssisuAI
a. Assistant Project Manager /a  S-M        12    12    12    12    12    12    72 12,000  0.16  0.17  0.17  0.18  0.18  0.19  1.04
J8Qr>rtal                                                                                            0.26  0.17  0.17  0.18   0.18  0.19  1.14
3. luqmto£ o2 _ag
1. Teacher Remuneration               Amt                                                        0.06  0.06      -      -     -     -  0.11
2. Curriculum Development             Amt                                                        0.51  0.52      -      -     -     -  1.03
3. Teacher Training Schools           Amt                                                        0.04  0.04      -   _        -     -  0.09
80Ntetal                                                                                            0.61  0.62       -     -     -      -  1.23
totail                                                                                                    0.86  0.79  0.17  0.18 -0.18  0.19  2.37
\a For administration and finance
Tue Sep 21 14:22:13 1993
7-1 Implementation Capacity                                                                     *
0



-181-                                ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 9
SOCIAL1ST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Projoat Cost Simeary
% Total
(Dong Billion)            (us$ Million)       Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
Ipove Quality and Rlevanno
Textbooks                       154.30  109.98  264.28   14.42   10.28   24.70          42        36
Teaching Aids for Schools        30.20   14.36   44.57    2.82    1.34    4.17          32         6
Teacher Training                  0.76    3.24    4.01    0.07    0.30    0.37          81         1
Minority Education                5.05   14.67   19.72    0.47    1.37    1.84          74         3
Subtotal                          190.32  142.25  332.57   17.79   13.29   31.08          43        46
Pt- rzv- Infraatzucturs
Major city schools               30.57   11.66   42.43    2.86    1.11    3.97          28         6
Mekong Delta Schools            108.14   39.23  147.37   10.11    3.67   13.77          27        20
Mountainous Area Schools         94.24   34.38  126.62    8.81    3.21   12.02          27        18
Subtotal                          232.94   85.48  318.42   21.77      7.99   29.76        27        44
Wrove MAnaJGiUnt
Network Rationalization           9.47   13.09   22.57    0.89    1.22    2.11          58         3
Education Information System    1.41   23.01   24.43    0.13    2.15    2.28            94         3
Monitoring and Assessment         1.48    3.04    4.52    0.14    0.28    0.42          67         1
Implementation Capacity           4.42   17.24   21.66    0.41    1.61    2.02          80         3
Subtotal                         -f778   56.38   73.17    1.57   5T.7         6.84        77        10
Total BASBLIN  COSTS               440U.04  284.11  724.16 -1.13   26.55   67.68           39       100
Physical Contingencies            44.00   28.41   72.42    4.11    2.66    6.77          39        10
Price Contingencies               38.13   23.30   61.43    3.56    2.18    5.74          38         8
Total PROJECT COSTS                522.18  335.83  858.00   4F.80   31.39   80.19          39       118
Mon Sep 20 17:19:30 1993
1-1 Project Cost Summary



-182-                               ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 9
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Cost S8mmary
%     % Total
(Dong Billion)            (US$ Million)      Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
zwoetment Coats
Civil works                    180.26   77.25  257.51   16.85    7.22   24.07          30        36
Furniture                       49.94    5.55   55.48    4.67    0.52    5.19          10         8
Equipment                       31.45   55.06   86.51    2.94    5.15    8.09          64        12
Textbook Printing & Shipping  153.92  102.61  256.53   14.38    9.59   23.97           40        35
Overseas Training                 0.55   10.47   11.03    0.05    0.98    1.03         95         2
In-country Training             13.32    3.33   16.65    1.24    0.31    1.56          20         2
Expatriate Specialists           2.27   20.43   22.69    0.21    1.91    2.12          90         3
Local Sioecialists               4.53    0.50    5.03    0.42    0.05    0.47          10         1
Studies                          3.82    8.91   12.73    0.36    0.83    1.19          70         2
Total BASBLINB COSTS               440.04  284.11  724.16   41.13   26.55   67.68         39       100
Physical Contingencies            44.00   28.41   72.42    4.11    2.66    6.77         39        10
Price Contingencies              38.13   23.30   61.43    3.56    2.18    5.74          38         8
Total PROJECT COSTS                522.18  335.83  8580    48.80   31.39   80.19          39       118
Mon Sep 20 17:19:33 1993
2-1 Project Cost Summary



-183-                            ANNEX 17
Page 3 of 9
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Components by Year
(US$ Million)
Base Cost
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total
Improve Quality and Relevance
Textbooks                      1.15  3.80  5.99  6.99  6.77       - 24.70
Teaching Aids for Schools         -  1.42  1.29  1.46       -     -  4.17
Teacher Training                  -  0.17  0.19  0.02       -     -  0.37
Minority Education             0.26  0.54  0.51  0.48  0.05       -  1.84
Subtotal                         1.41  5.93  7.98  8.95  6.82       - 31.08
Preserve Infrastructure
Major City Schools             0.99  2.93  0.01  0.01  0.01       -  3.97
Mekong Delta Schools               - 13.77     -      -     -     - 13.77
Mountainous Area Schools           -     - 12.02      -     -     - 12.02
Subtotal                          0.99 16.71 12.03  0.01  0.01      - 29.76
Improve management
Network Rationalization        1.25  0.23  0.21  0.20  0.20  0.01  2.11
Education Information System  2.27  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00        -  2.28
Monitoring and Assessment      0.14  0.11  0.05  0.07  0.06       -  0.42
Implementation Capacity        0.77  0.68  0.14  0.14  0.14  0.14  2.02
Subtotal                         4.42  1.03  0.40  0.42  0.41  0.16  6.84
Total BASULIHX  COSTS              6.82 23.66 20.42  9.38  7.24  0.16 67.68
Physical Contingencies          0.68  2.37  2.04  0.94  0.72  0.02  6.77
Price Contingencies             0.18  1.37  1.85  1.16  1.14  0.03  5.74
Total PROJZCT COSTS                7.69 27.40 24.31 11.48  9.11  0.20 80.19
Taxes                           0.22  1.06  0.80  0.10  0.00       -  2.18
Foreign Exchange                5.63  8.95  8.10  4.81  3.73  0.17 31.39
Mon Sep 20 17:05:57 1993
1-1 Project Components by Year



-184-                            ANNEX 17
Page 4 of 9
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Pr0)oct C@uponents by Tear
(US$ Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total
Dmprove Quality and Relevance
Textbooks                       1.29  4.41  7.13  8.56  8.51       - 29.90
Teaching Aids for Schools          -  1.64  1.53  1.78      -      -  4.96
Teacher Training                   -  0.19  0.23  0.02      -      -  0.44
Minority Education              0.30  0.62  0.61  0.59  0.06       -  2.18
Subtotal                          1.59  6.86  9.50 10.95  8.58       - 37.48
greserve Znfrastructure
Major City Schools              1.11  3.40  0.02  0.02  0.02       -  4.56
Mekong Delta Schools               - 15.95      -     -     -      - 15.95
Mountainous Area Schools          --       14.31      -     -      - 14.31
Subtotal                          1.11 19.35 14.33  0.02  0.02       - 34.83
upr:ove Manageamt
Network Rationalization         1.41  0.27  0.24  0.25  0.26  0.02  2.44
Education Information System  2.55  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.01         -  2.57
Monitoring and Assessment       0.15  0.13  0.06  0.09  0.07       -  0.50
Implementation Capacity         0.86  0.79  0.17  0.18  0.18  0.19  2.37
Subtotal                          4.98  1.19  0.48  0.52  0.51  0.20  7.88
Total PROJZCT COSTS                7.69 27.40 24.31 1l.48  9.11  0.20 80.19
Mon Sep 20 17:07:38 1993
1-1 Project Components by Year



-185-                          ANNEX 17
Page 5 of 9
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Zxpen41turo Aaowunts by Yeara
(US$ Million)
Base Cost
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total
Invsatment Costs
Civil works                    0.81 13.54  9.72      -     -     - 24.07
Furniture                      0.14  2.92  2.12      -     -     -  5.19
Equipment                      2.87  1.85  1.66  1.66  0.05       -  8.09
Textbook Printing & Shipping  0.71  3.72  5.89  6.93  6.72        - 23.97
Oversea& .raining              0.96  0.03  0.02  0.02  0.00       -  1.03
In-country Training            0.29  0.37  0.35  0.31  0.24      -  1.56
Expatriate Specialists         0.42  0.49  0.49  0.40  0.19  0.14  2.12
Local Specialists              0.08  0.16  0.11  0.08  0.04  0.01  0.47
Studies                        0.54  0.59  0.06      -     -      -  1.19
Total BABULZII COSTS              6.82 23.66 20.42  9.38  7.24  0.16 67.68
Physical Contingencies          0.68  2.37  2.04  0.94  0.72  0.02  6.77
Price Contingencies             0.18  1.37  1.85  1.16  1.14  0.03  5.74
Total PROJECT COSTS               7.69 27.40 24.31 11.48  9.11  0.20 80.19
Taxes                           0.22  1.06  0.80  0.10  0.00       -  2.18
Foreign Exchange                5.63  8.95  8.10  4.81  3.73  0.17 31.39
Mon Sep 20 17:07:40 1993
2-1 Expenditure Accounts by Years



-186-                          MANEX 17
Page 6 of 9
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Uxp.nditure Accounts by Tears
(US$ Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total
Inveetmunt Costs
Civil works                    0.91 15.68 11.57      -      -     - 28.16
Furniture                      0.16  3.38  2.53      -      -     -  6.07
Equipment                      3.23  2.14  1.97  2.03  0.07       -  9.44
Textbook Printing & Shipping  0.80  4.31  7.01  8.48  8.46        - 29.06
Overseas Training              1.08  0.03  0.03  0.02  0.01       -  1.17
In-country Training            0.33  0.42  0.42  0.37  0.30       -  1.85
Expatriate Specialists         0.48  0.56  0.58  0.48  0.23  0.19  2.52
Local Specialists              0.09  0.19  0.13  0.09  0.05  0.02  0.56
Studies                        0.61  0.69  0.07      -            - -  1.36
Total PROJZCT COSTS                7.69 27.40 24.31 11.48  9.11  0.20 80.19
Mon Sep 20 17:07:44 1993
3-1 Expenditure Accounts by Years



SOCAIST RBtLIC OF vIE? KM
PRIMARY EmcATIa  PtOJECT
ebditam    Aunta by Caq-te
(USS million)
Irove Quality and  Reacl                   Preaerve  nfrutruct'"e                                Improvr t nayeien
Teahin                                    Meko-ng    Mountainous                      duainPhysical
Aids for   Teacher Minority  Major City        Delta       Area          Netork         Informtion    bonitoring and  Uwdoe5tation            Contt=c100
Textboo4k   Schools  Trainin@  Education   Schools      Schools     Schools   Rationalization       System        Assessm           Canacitv      Total   4    M t
be.m coa.
civil works                           -          -         -          -        3.24        11.11        9.72                -                -                -               - 24.07   10.0   2.41
Furniture                             -          -         -          -        0.58         2.49        2.12                -                -                -               -  6.19   10.0   0.52
Egileant                           0.53       4.06      0.23       0.89           -            -           -                -             2.20             0.09            0.09  8.09   10.0   0.81
Textbook Printing a Shipping      23.91                                -          -            -                            -                -             0.07               - 23.97   10.0   2.40
Overseas Training                  0.10          -          -         -            -           -            -            0.90                -             0.03               -  1.03   10.0   0.10
In-country Training                0.04       0.11      0.03       0.15        0.07         0.10        0.10             0.94             0.02                -                   1.56   10.0   0.16
Expatriate Specialist.             0.12          -         -       0.52        0.07         0.07        0.07             0.19             0.06             0.15            0.86  2.12   10.0   0.21
Local Spcialists                     -          -         -       0.28        0.01         0.01        0.01             0.08                -             0.09               -  0.47   10.0   0.05
studies                                -         -      0.11          -            -           .            -               -                -                -            1.08  1.19   10.0   0.12
Total -A.In -02                       24.70      4.17       0. 37     1.84         3.97       13.77        12.02            2.11             2 28             0.42            2.02 67.63  10.0   6.77
Physicel Contingencies              2.47       0.42      0.04       0.18        0.40         1.38         1.20            0.21             0.23             0.04            0.20  6.77       -      -
Price Contingecies                  2.73       0.38      0.03       0.15        0.20         0.80         1.09            0.13             0.06             0.03            0.14  5.74    9.1   0.52 
total  ContinZU  CmSTS                29.90      4.96       0.44      2.10         4.56       15.9$        143              2.44             2.57             0.50             2.37 80.19    9.1   7.29
Taxes                               0.03       0.24      0.01       8.05        0.22         0.79        0.71                -             0.12             0.01            0.00  2.18    9.1   0.20
Foreign gxchage                    12.42       1.60      0.36       1.62        1.28         4.25        3.83             1.40             2.42             0.33            1.89 31.39    9.1   2.85
ion Sep 20 17:15:06 1993
1-1 Expenditure Accounts by Cocents
Oa



SOCALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAN
PRnMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
cc>cnento by  inaancier
(US$ Million)
International
Development   Government        Local                           Local  Duties
Assc_-iation   of Viet Ram   Communities       Total      For.  (Excl.   &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Exch. Taxes) Taxes
A.  aprov  Q9uality and elevanoe
Textbooks                        25.3   84.7    4.6   15.3        -      -   29.9   37.3  12.4   17.4    0.0
Teaching Aids for Schools         4.5   90.3    0.5    9.7        -      -    5.0    6.2   1.6    3.1    0.2
Teacher Training                  0.4   93.9    0.0    6.1        -      -    0.4    0.5   0.4    0.1    0.0
Minority Education                 2.1   95.2    0.1    4.8       -       -    2.2    2.7   1.6    0.5    0.1
Subtotal                             32.3    86.1    5.2   13.9      -       -   37.5   46.7  16.0   21.1    0.3
D. Vrmezve  nfz"astuctuze
Major City Schools                 4.0   86.7    0.3    5.5    0.4    7.7    4.6    5.7   1.3    3.1    0.2
Mekong Delta Schools              13.8   86.5    0.9    5.8    1.2    7.7   16.0   19.9   4.2   10.9    0.8
Mountainous Area Schools          12.4   86.4    0.9    6.0    1.1    7.7   14.3   17.8   3.8    9.8    0.7
Subtotal                             30.1   86,5    2.0    5.8    2.7    7.7   34.8   43.4   9.3   23.8    1.7  
C. Dmprove Mmagemnt                                                                                                                 c
Network Rationalization            2.4  100.0      -       -      -      -    2.4    3.0   1.4    1.0        -
Education Information System      2.3   90.4    0.2    9.6        -      -    2.6    3.2   2.4    0.0    0.1
Monitoring and Assessment          0.5   95.4    0.0    4.6       -       -    0.5    0.6   0.3    0.2    0.0
Implementation Capacity           2.4   99.6    0.0    0.4        -      -    2.4    3.0   1.9    0.5    0.0
Total Disbursmenet                    70.0   87.3    7.5    9.4    2.7    3.3   80.2  100.0  31.-4  46.6    2.2
Tue Sep 21 15:35:46 1993
1-1 Components by Financieri
A0
co



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
x;penditure Acconts by W rnanciere
(MS$ Million)
International
Development   Government         Local                           Local  Duties
Association   of Viet Nam   Co2mmmities         Total     For.  (Excl.   &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Exch. Taxes) Taxes
Investment Costs
Civil works                      24.1   85.5    1.4    5.0    2.7    9.5   28.2   35.1   8.4   18.3    1.4
Furniture                         5.5   90.0    0.6   10.0        -      -    6.1    7.6   0.6    5.2    0.3
Equipment                         8.5   90.0    0.9   10.0        -      -    9.4   11.8   5.9    3.0    0.5
Textbook Printing & Shipping   24.5   84.4    4.5   15.6          -      -   29.1   36.2  11.6   17.4         -
overseas Training                 1.2  100.0       -      -       -      -    1.2    1.5   1.1    0.1
In-country Training               1.8   99.4    0.0    0.6        -      -    1.8    2.3   0.4    1.5        _
Expatriate Specialists            2.5   99.7    0.0    0.3        -      -    2.5    3.1   2.3    0.3         -                     0
Local Specialists                 0.6   99.8    0.0    0.2        -      -    0.6    0.7   0.1    0.5         -
Studies                           1.4  100.0       -      -       -      -    1.4    1.7   1.0    0.4        -
Total Didbursemnt                   70.0   87.3    7.5    9.4    2.7    3.3   80.2  100.0 -31.4   46.6    2.2
Mon Sep 20 17:30:04 1993
2-1 Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
* i5
40.



-190-                        &MEX  is
Page 1 of 15
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
1.        National Level.  A National Project Director', assisted by a
National Project Manager assigned to the project full-time, would coordinate
the implementarion of all project-related activities. The National Project
Director would receive advice and assistance from a newly-formed Consultative
Council, comprising representatives of agencies outside the MOET such as the
State Planning Committee (SPC), the Ministry of Finance (MOF), and the State
Bank of Viet Nam. He/she would be assisted by a National Project Management
Committee composed of directors of all MOET departments participating in the
project. In addition to overall coordination of project implementation, the
National Project Management Committee would be responsible for liaison with
other government agencies and IDA.
2.        The full-time National Project Manager would be responqible for
day-to-day oversight of all aspects of project implementation. He/she would
be supported by seven Assistant Project Managers and three Deputy Assistant
Project Managers, as follows:
(a) An internationally-recruited Assistant Project Manager for
Administration and Finance (full-time), to oversee (inter alLa)
project accounting and auditing, reporting requirements, ICB
procurement, and processing of withdrawal applications.
(b) An Assistant Project Manager for Project Monitoring and Evaluation
(full-time), who would be responsible for preparing the Annual Work
Program, organizing the Annual Reviews and Project Completion
Reporting exercises, collecting information on project
achievements, and organizing the sample-based assessments.
(c) An Assistant Project Manager for Ethnic Minorities (full-time),
based in Hanoi, assisted by a full-time Deputy Assistant Project
Manager based in Nha Trang, who would be responsible for overseeing
implementation of specific pedagogical interventions targeted at
ethnic minorities (See Chart 3: Management Structure for the
Ethnic Minority Component).
(d) An Assistant Project Manager for Construction (full-time), based in
Hanoi, assisted by a Deputy Assistant Project Nanager for
Construction (full-time), based in Ho Chi Minh City, to oversee LCB
procurement in urban areas and generally the implementation of the
project's construction components in the North and the South,
respectively.
The current First Vice-Minister of the MOET has been nominated.



-191-                         ANNEX  18
Page 2 of 15
(e)  An Assistant Project Manager for Textbooks (part-time), supported
by a Deputy Assistant Manager for Textbooks (part-time), to be
filled by the Director of the EPH in Hanoi and the Director of the
branch office of the EPH in Ho Chi Minh City, respectively.
(f)  An Assistant Project Manager for Human Resources and Training
(full-time), based in Hanoi, responsible for organizing and
coordinating the study tours and fellowships as well as the local
training foreseen under the project.
(g)  An Assistant Project Manager for Teacher Training (part- time),
based in Hanoi, responsible for organizing the teaching aids
competitions and the primary teacher training research supported
under the project.
3.        The National Project Manager and the Assistant Project Managers
would together constitute a Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The MOET has
agreed to assign a definite hierarchical and bureaucratic position to this
Unit within the organizational structure of the Ministry. Although the PCU
would initially coordinate the implementation of only the IDA-assisted
project, the MOET's intention is that this unit would eventually be
responsible for overseeing implementation of all foreign-assisted projects.
4.        Provincial Level.  A Provincial Project Coordinator, attached to
the Provincial Education Service, would coordinate and oversee project
activities within the province in question. His/her primary responsibility
would be implementing the project; accordingly, the incumbent would be
relieved of other responsibilities. Duties would include: (a) undertaking M
Dost review of School Committee plans; (b) ensuring delivery of nationally-
procured equipment to districts and Primary Teacher Training School(s); (c)
supervising (through the Provincial Education Service's Construction Unit)
construction activities in the province; (d) ensuring timely provision of
funds from provincial budgets for the project; (e) ensuring the flow of funds
from the national to the district level; and (f) following agreed criteria,
selecting staff from the Provincial Education Service to participate in
project-sponsored training. A Provincial Management Committee (composed of
the director of the Provincial Teacher Training School, other members of the
Provincial Education Service involved in project implementation, and other
appropriate officials of the province, including a representative of the
Provincial Financial Service) would provide assistance to the Provincial
Project Coordinator.
5.        District Level.  A District Project Coordinator, attached to the
District Education Service, would coordinate and oversee project activities
within the district in question. His/her primary responsibility would be
implementing project; accordingly, the incumbent would be relieved of other
responsibilities. Duties would include: (a) supervising civil works in the
district (if any); (b) reviewing/approving School Committee plans; (c)
ensuring delivery of equipment to the district's primary schools; (d) ensuring
timely provision of funds from district budgets for the project; (e) ensuring
flow of funds from the provincial to the school level; and (f) following
agreed criteria, selecting staff from the district's Education Service and
primary schools to participate in project-sponsored t-mining. The District
Project Coordinator would be assisted by a District Manak,qment Committee



-192-                        AM    is
Page 3 of 15
composed of school principals involved in project implementation and other
appropriate officials of the district, including a representative of the
District Financial Service. In addition, the District Project Coordinator
would be assisted by a part-time project monitoring expert responsible for
collecting information on project achievements and preparing periodic reports
to be submitted to the District Management Committee.
6.        Scg.l jLevl.  At the school level, principals would be assisted
(as is presently the case) by a School Committee chaired by the principal and
including representatives of the Parents' Association and the local People's
Committee (commune People's Committee, in rural areas; neighborhood People's*
Comaittee, in urban areas). Where sufficiently large population clusters
exist without a school, local initiative would form an appropriately-
constituted New School Committee on the basis of information received from the
District education authorities.
7.        Each School Committee (whether existing or New) would prepare a
plan for the repair, rehabilitation, or construction to be undertaken under
the project. These plans would include:
(a) Designs. Designs for proposed civil works would be prepared by
private (or public) architects on the basis of national norms for
school construction supplied by the RDICS.
(b) Estirated costs.
(c) A proposed financing plan which would include and reflect the local
contributions (from Parents' Association and/or the local People's
Committee).
(d) A proposed implementation schedule.
(e) An estimate of probable recurrent costs resulting from project-
supported activities (including salaries of any new teachers
required), a proposal for financing additional recurrent costs, and
a commitment by the local People's Committee and the Parents'
Association to providing the funds required.
(f) Plans for schools in ethnic minority areas (and mountainous areas
with sufficient population and no school) would be prepared by the
existing or New School Committees with the help of district
education authorities and would include the following additional
elements:
(g) Number of primary-age children in the catchment area by gender and
ethnic affiliation.
(h) Proposals for multi-grade teaching and resulting number of new
classrooms needed (if any).
(i) Proposals for mother-tongue literacy and for teaching Vietnamese as
the national language, as relevant.



-193-                         Am         la
Page 4 of 15
8.        All such plans would be submitted to the respective District
Mnagement Committee for review and approval; in particular, the District
Management Committee would ensure that the proposed designs conforted to
national norms. Following approval, copies of the plans would be submitted to
the respective Provincial Management Committee and the Project Coordination
Unit (either the head office in Hanoi or the branch office in Ho Chi Minh
City) for ^ post review and eventual review by IDA supervision missions.
9.        During project preparation, IDA and UNICEF worked closely with
RDICS staff to develop cost-effective designs for schools and latrines, and
these designs should become the basis for the new construction. The
Government agreed that all civil works would be carried out based upon the
preparation, submission, and approval of a satisfactory plan, and that these
plans would be based upon designs reviewed by IDA during project preparation.
In the case of Phase Three civil works (in mountainous areas), these plans
must also reflect the phasing of additional pedagogic inputs which would
precede construction.
10.       Finally, each school would have a site manager, consisting of the
principal or head teacher. This individual would represent the school during
project implementation in order to: (a) minimize the impact of construction
on the learning environment; (b) receive, inspect, and accept shipments of
books, materials, and furniture on behalf of the school; (c) schedule staff
training (especially in multi-grade or bi-lingual teaching techniques); (d)
interact with provincial, district, and local authorities to maximize impact
of inputs on education activities; and (e) -collect school-level data for use
by Assistant Project Manager for Monitoring and Evaluation.



-194-                        AM=    18
Page 5 of 15
PROZJfROT ANgCMENT MATRII
TASK MARAGER            COMPOSITION,            CONDITIONS,
OR               QUALIFICATIQNS,             TIMNG,
GROUP                    AND                     AD
LEVEL      RESPONSIBLE FOR         RESPONSIBILITIES           DURATION
PROJECT ACTIVITY
NATIONAL      Consultative    MEjEijY:  Officials of
Counsel       all non-MOET agencies
involved in project (SPC,
MOF, State Bank).
1. Advise and assist         Throughout
National Project          implementation
Di,ector.
National      MEMBERSHIP-:  OET
Project      Directors or equivalent
Management     officials of MOET units
Committee      involved in project.
PURPOSES:
1. Assist National           Throughout
Project Director.         implementation
2. Coordinate
implementation.
3. Liaise with other
government agencies
and IDA.
National       OUALIEICATIONS: Part-time,
Project Director  Vice ministerial level.
PURPOSE:
1. Oversee project           Throughout
implementation            implementation
National     QOAL FICATIONS: Full-time,
Project Manager*  Director level.
PURPOSE:
1. Manage and coordinate     Throughout
implementation.           implementation
2. Correspond with IDA and
donors about project.
3. Meet IDA reporting and    Submit reports
auditing requirements.    quarterly and
annually.



-195-                                 is
Page 6 of 15
TASK XANAGER             COMPOSITION,            CONDITIONS,
OR                QUALIFICATIONS,             TIMING,
GROUP                    AND                     AND
L| VEL     RESPONSIBLE FOR         RESPONSIBILITIES            DURATION
PROJECT ACTIVITY
Assistant      QUA.IFICATIQNS: Full-time,   Throughout
Project Manager   expatriate specialist          implementation
for         funded under project.
Administration   Hanoi-based.
and Finance*
D PpQSES:
1. Manage ICB procurement
(teaching aids, primary
school equipment, and
equipment for MOET/
Provincial Education
Services).
2. Manage withdrawl
applications.
3. Monitor all project
accounts and audits.
4. Meet project reporting    Submit reports
requirements.              quarterly.
Assistant      QUALIFICATIONS: Full-time,   Throughout
Project Manager   Director level, Hanoi-         implementation
for         based.
Monitoring and
Evaluation      PURS
(M&E)*       1. Prepare Annual Work
Programs.
2. Organize Annual Reviews
3. Monitor key project
indicators, collect
information on
project achievements.
4  Organize sample-based
assessments.
5. Report findings to         Submit reports
National Project           quarterly.
Management Committee.



-196-                         AN       is
Page 7 of 15
TASK MANAGER            COMPOSITION,            CONDITIONS,
OR               QVALIFICATIONS,             TIKINaG
GROUP                    AND                    AND
RESPONSIBLE FOR        RESPONSIBILITIES            DURATION
PROJECT ACTIVITY
Assistant     QOLIFICATIONS: Full-time,   Throughout
Project Manager  Director level, Hanoi-         implementation
for         based.
Ethnic
minorities     PURlOSE:
Component*     1. National oversight.
2. Implement pedagogical
interventions in
northern provinces.
3. Monitor achievements      Submit reports
nationally and report     quarterly.
to Asst. P.M. for M&6.
Deputy        OUALIPICATIONS: Full-time,   Throughout
Assistant      Nha Trang-based+.             implementation
Project Manager
for
Ethnic       PURPOSE:
Minorities     1. Regional oversight.
Component      2. Implement pedagogical
interventions in
center/south.
3. Monitor achievements      Submit reports
regionally and report     quarterly.
to Asst. P.M. for
Ethnic Minorities.
Assistant      QIAFICATIONS: Full-time,   Throughout
Project Manager  Hanoi-based.                   implementation
for
Construction*    PURPOSE:
1. Establish bid
evaluation and award
committees & oversee
administration of civil
works procurement.
2. Supervise
implementation of
construction in the
north.
3. Monitor construction      Submit reports
achievements nationally   quarterly.
and report findings
to Asst. P.M. for M&E.



-197-                       AM          18
Page 8 of 15
TASK MANAGER            COMPOSITIONS            CONDITIONS.
OR               QUALIFICATIONS,             TINING,
OROUP                    AND                    AND
LEVEL      RESPONSIBLE FOR         RESPONSIBILITIES           DURATION
PROJECT ACTIVITY                                       _
Deputy        QLAFICATIONS: Full-time,   Throughout
Assistant      Ho Chi Minh City-based.       implementation
Project Manager
for
Construction    PURPOSE:
1. Establish bid
evaluation and award
committees & oversee
administration of civil
works procurement.
2. Supervise
implementation of
construction in the
south.
3. Monitor construction      Submit reports
achievements locally      quarterly.
and report findings
to Asst. P.M. for
Construction.
Assistant      QUALIFICATIONS: Part-time;   Throughout
Project Manager  post to be filled by           implementation
for         Director of EPH (Hanoi).
Textbooks*
PURPOSE:
1. Administer production
and distribution of
texts in the north.
2. Monitor textbook          Submit reports
achievements nationally   quarterly.
and report findings
to Asst. P.M. for M&E.
Deputy        OUALIFICATIONS: Part-time;   Throughout
Assistant      post to be filled by          implementation
Project Manager   Director of branch of the
for         EPH in Ho Chi Minh City.
Textbooks      PROE:
1. Under direction of
Asst. P.M. for
Textbooks, administer
production/distribution
of texts in the south.
2. Monitor textbook          Submit reports
achievements locally      quarterly.
and report findings
to Asst. P.M. for
Textbooks.



-198-                    ANNEX  18
Page 9 of 15
TASK NANAGER            COMPOSITION,            CONDITIONS,
OR               QUALIFICATIONS.             TIMING,
GROUP                    AND                    AND
LEVEL      RESPONSIBLE FOR         RESPONSIBILITIES           DURATION
PROJECT ACTIVITY
Assistant      QUALIFICATIONS: Full-time;   Throughout
Project Manager  Hanoi-based.                   implementation
for
Human Resource
Development     PURPOSE:
and Training*   1. Organize/coordinate
local training, study
tours, and fellowships
2. Monitor training          Submit reports
achievements and report   quarterly.
findings to Asst. P.M.
for M&E.
Assistant      OUALIFICATIONS: Part-time;   Throughout
Project Manager  Hanoi-based.                   implementation
for
Teacher
Training*          PURPOSE:
1. Organize/coordinate
teaching aids
competition and
teaching research
components.
2. Monitor achievements      Submit reports
and report findings to    quarterly.
Asst. P.M. for M&E.
PROVINCE       Provincial     MEMBERSHIP: Directors of      Throughout
OR          Management     Provincial Teacher            implementation
CITY         Committee      Training Schools; Staff of
Provincial Education
Service (including
representative of Prov.
Construction Unit); Misc.
provincial officials
(including representative
of Provincial Financial
Service)
PURPOSE: Assist Provincial
Project Coordinator



-199-                         ANNEX  18
Page 10 of 15
TASK  &NANGER            COMPOSITION,            CONDITIONS,
OR                QUALIFICATIONS,             TIMING,
GROUP                    AND                     AND
LEVEL      RESPONSIBLE FOR         RESPONSIBILITIES            DURATION
PROJECT ACTIVITY
Provincial      OUALIFICATIONS: Regular       Throughout
Project        staff of Provincial           implementation
Coordinator     Education Service assigned
full-time to project.
FURPOSE: Manage provincial
project implementation,
including:
1. Delivery of equipment
to teacher training
institutes.
2. Supervision (through
Prov. Ed. Service's
Construction Unit) of
all construction
activities in province.
3. Flow of funds from
national to district
levels.
4. Timely provision of
counterpart funds from
provincial budget.
5. Select staff from
Provincial Ed. Service
for training.
6. Monitor key project        Submit report
indicators, compile        quarterly.
data, and periodically
report findings to
Assistant Project
Manager for M&E.



-200-                        ANNEX  18
Page 11 of 15
TASK MANAGR             COMPOsITION,            CONDITIONS,
OR               QUALIFICATIONS.             TIMING,
GROUP                    AND                    AND
LEVEL      RESPONSIbLE FOR        RESPONSIBILITIES            DURATION
PROJECT ACTIVITY
DISTRICT        District      MEKBEESHI: District           Throughout
Management     Project Coordinator;          implementation
Committee      District Project
Monitorlng Expert;
Principals of project
primary schools; district
officials (including
representative of District
Financial Service);
PURPOSE:
1. Assist the District       Initial
Project Manager with      meeting within
project implementation.   first 6 months
2. Initiate establishment    of project
of School Committees      effectiveness,
where none exist.         then every 6
3. Meet with School          months
Committees to enlist      subsequently
support for project.      until
4. Review and approve        completion.
school-level designs &
Implementation Plans
and submit them to
Provincial Management
Committee or Project
Coordination Unit.
5. Meet periodically with
School Committees to
monitor progress.
6. Procure furniture for
project sites through
LCB (urban areas only).



-201-                        AM          is
P&ge 12 of 15
TASR HNAGOER            COMPOSITION,            coNDmOS.
OR               QUALIIFICTIONS,             TDING#,
GROUP                    AND                    AND
LEVEL      RESPONSIBLE FOR         RESPONSIBInITIES           DURATION
PROJECT ACTIVITY   ___
District      QULEIFQITIONS: Regular        Throughout
Project       staff of District             Implementation
Coordinator    Education Service,
assigned full-time to
project.
PURPOSE: Coordinate all
project activities at the
district level, including:
1. Delivery of equipment
to project primary
schools.
2. Flow of funds from
provincial to school
levels.
3. Timely provision of
counterpart funds
from district budget.
4. Select staff from
District Ed. Service
for training.
5. Monitor key project       Submit report
indicators, compile       quarterly.
data, and periodically
report findings to
Assistant Project
Manager for M&E.
6. Ensure delivery of
furniture to project
classrooms.



-202-                        ANNEX   IA
Page 13 of 15
TASK NMANAER            COMPOSITION,            CONDITIONS,
OR               QUALIFICATIONS.             TIMING,
GROUP                    AND                    AND
LEVEL      RESPONSIBLE FOR         RESPONSIBILITIES           DMRATION
PROJECT ACTIVITY
SCHOOL          School       MEMBERSHIP:  Site manager
Committee      and members of Parents'      Throughout
Association and People's      implementation
Committee.
FOR ALL SCHOOLS   pUPOSE:
New or Existing  (General) Support
implementation at the        Submit Plan to
school level.                District
Procure furniture for        Management
rural classrooms.            Committee for
(Specific) Prepare an        review and
Implementation Plan that     approval.
would cover:
Designs to be
(a) construction. regair.    prepared by
& rehabilitation aspects--   local
architects
1. Designs for proposed      using accepted
civil works.              construction
norms.
2. Proposed implementation
schedule.                 Local
3. Estimated costs for       contributions
civil works.              to come from:
Parents'
4. A proposed financing      Associations,
plan for construction   f and People's
that would include        Committees.
intended local
contribution (to          Commitment by
constitute about 10%      Parents'
of total financing).      Associations
and People's
5. An estimate of            Committees to
recurrent expenditures    finance
related to civil works    recurrent
and a proposal for        costs.
financing them.



-203-                        ANNEX  IS
Page 14 of 15
TASK hANAaGER           COMPOSITION,            CONDITIONS.
OR               QUALIFICATIONS,             TIMING,
GROUP                    AND                    AID
LEEL       RESPONSIBLE FOR         RESPONSIBILITIES           DUATION
PROJECT ACTIVM
FOR         (b) education aspects--        Part (a) of
NEWLY CREATED                                  Implementation
SCHOOLS       6. Number of primary-age      Plan to be
OR            children in catchment      submitted by
SCHOOLS          area by gender and         (date/time).
IN            ethnic affiliation.        Part (b) to be
MINORITY AREAS   7. Proposals for multi        submitted by
grade teaching and        (date/timo)
new classrooms needed
(if any).
8. Proposals for ethnic
minority teaching using
Vietnamese as a second
language (as relevant)
9. Schedule for trainlng
teachers for multi-
grade and/or ethnic
minority teaching (as
needed).
lO.Schedule for materials
preparation for multi-
grade and/or ethnic
minority teaching (as
needed).



-204-                       ANNEX  18
Page 15 of 15
TASK NANAGER            COMPOSITION,           CONDITIONS.
OR               QUALIFICATIONS,            TIMING,
GROUP                   AND                    AND
LEVEL     RESPONSIBLE FOR         RESPONSIBILITIES           DURATION
PROJECT ACTIVITY
School       OUALIFICATIOS: Principal    Automatically
Site        of participating primary     selected.
Manager       school.
FURPOSE:  Represent the      Throughout
school during project        implementation
implementation to:
1. Minimize impact of
construction on
learning environment.
2. Receive, inspect, and
accept shipments of
books, materials, and
furniture.
3. Schedule staff training
(especially
for multi-grade or
ethnic minority).
4. Interact with
provincial, district,
and local authorities
to maximize impact of
project inputs on
education activities.
5. Collect school-level      Collect data
data for use by           on a weekly
Assistant Project         basis and
Manager for Monitoring    submit reports
and Evaluation.           quarterly.
* Indicates members of the Project Coordination Unit.
+ Although the province containing Nha Trang will not directly
benefit from the project, Government officials have selected this
site as the best location for supervising and monitoring the Etbnic
Minorities component in the central and southern regions.



-205-                           AMJg I9
Page 1 of 9
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
FLOW OF FUNDS AND ACCOUNTING FORMATS
1.    It had previously been proposed that the flow of funds within Viet Nam
take place through the network of the State Bank of Viet Nam, which had its
head office in Hanoi and branches in every province and district. Since
October 1, 1990, however, the State Bank no longer functions as a commercial
bank, i.e., handling customers' accounts. These accounts have been
transferred to newly created commercial banks (Agricultural Banks at the
district level, the Industrial Banks at the provincial level, and the Foreign
Trade Bank at the national level) set up under the new banking regime. The
State Bank retains its regulatory and supervisory roles, and also handles all
government accounts.
2.    The NOET and the Provincial Education Service of Hanoi have accounts in
the State Bank's head office in Hanoi. Every other Provincial Education
Service has its account in the Industrial Bank in the provincial capital.
Each District Education Service has an account in the Agricultural Bank in the
district capital; the district's primary schools also have accounts in this
bank. A transfer from an account in the head office of the State Bank in
Hanoi to an account in an Industrial Bank in a provincial capital can take up
to five days; from the Industrial Bank to-an Agricultural Bank in a district
capital, about two days; and from one account in an Agricultural Bank (e.g.,
that of the District Education Service) to another account in the same bank
(e.g., that of a primary school), less than an hour.
3.    A school principal can withdraw money from the school's account in the
district's Agricultural Bank by writing a check, and does so to make large
payments to a receiver who also has A bank account. For smaller payments
(e.g., for normal small-scale civil works and for teachers' monthly salary
payments), however, the school accountant normally withdraws money in cash
from the account at the district's Agricultural Bank and makes payments in
cash.
4.    In October of each year (as is presently the case), the MOET would
request the MOF to include in the expenditures budget for the forthcoming year
the full amount of funds necessary to cover national contributions to project
implementation expenditures. The MOF would also include in its revenue budget
the amount expected to be recovered from IDA in reimbursements during that
year. After further elaboration in the MOP, the draft budget would be
discussed by the SPC (as is presently the case) and then submitted to the
National Assembly for approval, which normally occurs in December. After
January 1, the MOET would be authorized to start making expenditures according
to the approved budget allocations, drawing on its account in the State Bank
of Viet Nam in Hanoi. Funds needed for expenditures at the lower levels which
are to be financed by the national government would be periodically
transferred to the accounts of the respective Provincial Education Services in
the Industrial Banks in those provinces, using the normal budgetary transfer
procedures outlined above. Funds needed for expenditures at the school level
would be periodically transferred, first, to the accounts of the respective
District Education Services in the Agricultural Banks in those districts, and
then to the accounts of the respective primary schools in the same banks, also
using the normal budgetary transfer procedures.



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STANDARD FORMATS FOR PROJECT ACCOUNTS
SCHOOL FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING SUMMARY SHEET NO.                                  /
(School Form: Page 1 of 2)
PROVINCE/CITY                                DISTRICT                               COMMUNE                                SCHOOL
NO. OF CLASSROOMS TO BE BUILT                        PERCENTAGE OF COWPLETION __      X
COSTS OF CONSTRUCTION                                          EXPENDITURES
REVISED AS                                 IN THIS      CUMULATIVE
ESTIMATED y        OF TODAY                                  PERIOD         TO DATE                              FINANCING PLAN
CATEGORY              V.N.  Dona                            CATEGORY .V.N. Dona                 V.N.Dong             SOURCE              V.N. Dona      X of TOTAL
Parents'
Labor                                                       Labor                                                    Association
Materials                                           l       Materials                                                Commune
Furniture V                                                 Furniture V/                                             District
Equipment Vl                                                Equipment  /                                             Province/City
NisceLlaneous                                               Miscellaneous                                            IDA
Contingencies                                               xxxxxxxxxxxxx      xxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxx              Others
Total                                                       Total_                                                   Total                                  100
Representative, Commune People's Camalttee             Representative, Parents' Association                   School Accountant 
Head, School Construction Committee                    School Principal                                       Oate
1/ This form shoutd be used when the school applies for replenishment of the Construction Fund.
y According to School Constructfon Committee's original plan as approved by the district.
3J Include only furniture and equipment which are procured locally. Those that are procured centratty by
the district, province, or Ministry are to be accounted for at those levels.



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAN
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STANDARD FORMATS FOR PROJECT ACCOUNTS
SCHOOL FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING SUMMARY SHEET NO.                                   1/
(School Form: Page 2 of 2)
CONTRACT OR                                                                 TOTAL AMOUNT OF
ITEN        AME AND ADDRESS             PURCHASE ORDER               BRIEF DESCRIPTION           TOTAL AMOUNT      CONTRACTOR'S INVOICES
0O.        OF CONTRACTOR(S)              NO. AND DATE                OF GOODS, WORKS,            OF CONTRACT       COWgtSDSUM0ARY SHEET           REMARKS
OR SUPPLIER(S)           (OR OTHER REFERENCE)               OR SERVICES
Documentatfon (receipts, invoices, contracts, etc.) supporting these accounts is retained at
Person responsible:                                                     .    Signature:  _
tl



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAN
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STANDARD FORMATS FOR PROJECT ACCOUNTS
DISTRICT FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING SUMMARY SHEET 1/ NO. -
(District Form: Page 1 of 3)
PROVINCEtCITY                               DISTRICT            _                   NO. OF SCHOOLS
NO. OF CLASSROONS TO BE WUILT            _           PERCENTAGE OF COWPLETION _         X
COSTS OF CONSTRUCTION                                          EXPENDITURES
REVISED AS                                 IN THIS      CUMULATIVE
ESTIMATED Y/       OF TODAY                                  PERIOD         TO DATE                              FINANCING PLAN
|CATEOOY              V.N. Doro ne                                                              V D  CATErn V.N. Dona  LLflX S           V                of TOTAL
Parents,'                                           t4J
Labor                                                       Labor                                                    Association                                         o
Materials                                                   Naterials                                                Commune
Furniture 3/                                                Furniture  /                                             District
Equipment }/                                                Equipment /| Province/City
Miscellaneous                                               Miscellaneous                                            IDA
Contingencies                                                 xxxxxxxx         xxxxxxxxxx    xxxxxxxxxx              Others
Total                                                       Total                                                    Total                                  100
Representative, District Finance Service               Director, District Education Service                     Date
3/  This form should be filled out at the end of each month and submitted to the Provincial Education                                                            'p
8ervice.                                                                                                                                                     b
2/  According to School Construction Committees' original plans as approved by the district.
J  Include only Furniture and Equipment shich are procured by the schools only.  Those that are procured
by the District Education Service should be entered on the next page.  Those that are procured
centrally by the province or ministry are to be accounted at those levels.



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STANDARD FORMATS FOR PROJECT ACCOUNTS
DISTRICT FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING SUMMARY SHEET NO.        1/
(District Form: Page 2 of 3)
FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT
PART A. SUMMARY
Sumarize costs of furniture and equipment procured by the District Education Service. Items provided
by the Provincial Education Service and Ministry of Education and Training should not be entered in
this section.
DISTRICT EDUCATION SERVICE
COSTS (V.". Dong)   EXPENDITURES (V.N. Dong)
In This    Cuautative
Ptam_d    Reyised     Period      To Date
Furniture
Equiptmle
Total



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STANDARD FORMATS FOR PROJECT ACCOUNTS
DISTRICT FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING SUMMARY SHEET NO.                       1/
(District Form: Page 3 of 3)
FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT PROCURED BY THE DISTRICT EDUCATION SERVICE
MONTH                   YEAR
PART B. DETAILS
Enter details of furniture and equipment procured by the District Education Service.
CONTRACT OR                                                     TOTAL AMOUNT OF
ITEN     NAME AND ADDRESS         PURCHASE ORDER          BRIEF DESCRIPTION       TOTAL ANouT    CONTRACTOR'S INVOICES
NO.      OF CONTRACTOR(S)          NO. AND DATE           OF GOODS, WORKS,        OF CONTRACT    COMBESUPIARY SHEET        REMARKS
OR SUPPLIER(S)       (OR OTHER REFERENCE)         OR SERVICES
#0
Oocusent4tfon (receipts, invoices, contracts, etc.) supprtfigS these accounts fs retained at __ ____
Person responsibte:                                          .      Signature: 



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STANDARD FORMATS FOR PROJECT ACCOUNTS
PROVINCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING SUMMARY SHEET NO.   -
(Province Form: Page 1 of 3)
PROVINCE/CITY          ___      _            NO. OF DISTRICTS                                NO. OF SCHOOLS_
NO. OF CLASSROOMS TO BE BUILT                        PERCENTAGE OF COMPLETION _       X
COSTS OF CONSTRUCTION                                          EXPENDITURES
REVISED AS                                 IN THIS      CUMULATIVE
ESTIMATED Z/       OF TODAY                                   PERIOD        TO DATE                              FINANCING PLAN
_ATEGORY               .N.D VD. M.N. Dona                   CTGORY              !LN. Dona       V.N.Don     l        SOURCE              V.N. Dona      X of TOTAL
Parents'                  _                          )
Labor                                                       Labor                                                    Association                                         F
Materials                                                   Materials                                                Commune
Furniture 2/                                                Furniture 3I                                             District
Equipment 3/                                                Equipment                          _                     Province/City
Miscetlaneous                                               Miscellaneous                                            IDA
Contingencies                    _                        | xxj       xx       xxxxxxxxxx      |xxjtujc              Others
Total                                                       Total                                                    Total                                  100
Representative, Provincial Finance Service           Director, Provincial Education Service                Date
J/  This form should be filled out at the end of each month  and submitted to the Ministry of Education and                                                       o
Training.                                                                                                                                                     h
3/  According to School Construction Committees' originat ptans as approved by the district.                                                                      qo
I/ tnclude only Furniture and Equipment  hihch are procured by the schools only.  Those that are procured
by the District Education Service and Provincial Education Service should be entered on the next page.
Those that are procured centrally by the ministry are to be accounted for at the Ministry.



SOCIALIST RFPUBIJC OF VIET NAN
PRDMAI DU fCATIONQPRWECT
STANDARD FORIATS FOR PROJECT ACCOUNTS
PROVINCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING SUMMARY SHEET NO.
(Province Form:  Page 2 of 3)
FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT
PART A. SUMMARY
Summarize costs of furniture and equipment procured by both the District Education Service and
Provincial Education Service. Items provided by the Ministry of Education and Training should not be
entered in this section.
DISTRICT EDUCATION SERVICE                            PRINCIAL EDCTIOW SERICE
COSTS (V.N. Dong)    EXPENDITURES (V.". Oong)          COSTS (V.. Dong)    EXPENDITURES (V.N. Dongs)
Ptann    Revised    tn this    Cumulative                                  In This   Cumutative
Period     To Date                Pn       Revi #eriod            To Date
furniture
Equipment
Total
co
*
o n



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STANDARD FORMATS FOR PROJECT ACCOUNTS
PROVINCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING SUMMARY SHEET NO.
(Province Form: Page 3 of 3)
FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT PROCURED BY THE PROVINCIAL EDUCATIONAL SERVICE
MONTH                  YEAR
PART B. DETAILS
Enter details of furniture and equipment procured by the Provincial Education Service.
CONTRACT OR                                                  TOTAL ANOUNT OF
ITEM     NAME AND ADDRESS       PURCHASE ORDER         BRIEF DESCRIPTION      TOTAL AMOUNT   CONTRACTOR'S IhMOICES
NO.     OF CONTRACTOR(S)         NO. AND DATE          Of COODS, WORKS,       OF CONTRACT   COOYIUDSUN4ARY SHEET      RENARKS
OR SUPPLIER(S      (OR OTHER REFERENCE)         OR SERVICES
on
Documentation (receipts, invoices, contracts, etc.) supporting these accounts is retained at,
Person responsible:                                ___    .      Signature:



-215-
Page 1 of 3
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF QVET NM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT
1.        The procurement of goods and works will be carried out in accordance
with Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, May 1992.
Consultant services (including studies) would be selected and employed by the
Project Coordination Unit in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Uae of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers." Standard Bank procurement documents were
reviewed with the MOET during project preparation.  In the procurement of goods
through ICB, goods manufactured in the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam may be
granted a margin of preference of 15% (or the applicable import duties, whichever
is less) for purposes of bid comparison.
Competitive Bidding Advertized Locally
2.        Local procurement procedures have not been adequately standardized or
codified, and IDA proposes to assist the Government in doing so.  For the
purposes of this project, local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures were
discussed at negotiations and are set out below.
3.        Advertising.   The Invitation for Bids shall be advertised in a
newspaper of local circulation where the civil works are to be provided, and the
goods to be supplied. In those areas where this is not possible, the Invitation
for Bids shall be posted at the respective Office of the Peoples' Committee or
such other place or places as shall be appropriate.
4.        The Invitation for Bids shall be in Vietnamese language and in such
other language which may be deemed appropriate by the Borrower's department or
agency concerned, and shall include the information referred to in the model
Invitation for Bids set forth in the Sample Bidding Documents, Procurement of
Works (in the case of civil works contracts) and Procurement of Goods (in the
case of goods), published by the Bank on December 1991 and May 1993,
respectively.
5.        With due regard of the nature of the civil works to be provided and
goods to be supplied, the time period for bid submission from invitation shall
be sufficient to allow potential bidders a reasonable time to prepare and submit
their bids. it shall be no less than 30 calendar days, unless otherwise agreed
with the Association.
6.        Eligibility.  The eligibility of bidders and the origin of goods
supplied shall be as defined under the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992) (the Guidelines).
7.        Foreign bidders will be allowed to bid, if they wish to do so.



-216-                          Anex 20
Page 2 of 3
Nevertheless, foreign bidders may be required to have a local agent/intermediary
in Viet Nam.
9.        Bidding.   In addition to the Invitation for Bids, the Bidding
Documents shall include the following:
(a) Instructions to Bidders, including the criteria to be used for bid
evaluations;
(b) Conditions of Contract;
(c) Technical Specifications;
(d) Bid Form and Price Schedules; and
(e)  Performance Security (optional £or bids below a Dollar equivalent sum
to be agreed with the Association).
In case of civil works, the Bidding Documents shall also include BUI
of Quantities, or breakdown of lump sum price, as the case may be.
10.       Bids may be expressed in Dong or in such other foreign currency as set
forth in the Invitation for Bids. If the currency of payment set forth in the
Invitation for Bids is Dong, the Invitations may indicate that there is no
obligation on the part of the Borrower's department or agency requesting the bids
to convert into foreign currency the amounts to be paid.
11.       Bidding documents shall be in Vietnamese language or in such other
language that may be deemed appropriate by the Borrower's department or agency
concerned.
12.       Bids may be delivered by mail or by hand at the place set forth for
such purposes in the Invitation for Bids.
13.       Bids shall be opened publicly allowing representatives of the bidders
to attend if they so desire. Bids shall not be modified after bid opening except
to correct arithmetical errors; all bids shall be opened at the same time.
14.       Bids may not be rejected for the sole purpose of obtaining lower bids.
The Borrower shall consult with the Association prior to rejecting all bids or
soliciting new bids. All bids shall not be rejected and new bids invited on the
same specifications solely for the purposes of obtaining lower prices, except in
cases where the lowest evaluated bid exceeds the cost estimates by a substantial
amount. In such cases the Borrower may, as an alternative to rebidding and with
the prior concurrence of the Association, negotiate with the lowest evaluated
bidder to try to obtain a satisfactory contract, and failing a satisfactory
response, with the next lowest evaluated bidder. Rejection of all bids may be
permissible when bids are not substantially responsive or there is lack of
effective competition.
15.       In the comparison of bids between local and foreign bidders, no
domestic or regional preferences to local bidders shall apply and bids shall be
compared on delivered price inclusive of any prevailing duties.
16.       Award of the contract shall be to the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder. Price negotiation with bidders shall not be undertaken before award
except as provided in paragraph 12 above.



-217-                           Arex 20
Page 3 of 3
17.       The award of contract shall be made within the perlod specified in the
bidding documents. This period shall be determined in each case (goods or works)
depending on the complexity of the contract and the approval.
18.       A bid evaluation report shall be prepared by the Borrower's department
or agency requesting the bids setting out a record of all bids submitted, the
reasons for disqualification of any bids, the criteria, weighing and evaluation
of all responsive bids, the recommended award, and, if recommended award is to
other than the lowest price bidder, the reasons therefor. The concerned
Borrower's department or agency shall furnish the to Association an English
translation of such bid evaluation report pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
19.       Documents.  Notwithstanding the contract amount threshold set forth
in paragraph 1 (a), Part D of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement,
bidding documents for the first procurement of civil works or goods under the
procurement procedures outlined in this letter shall be subject to the
Association's prior review in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines.



-218-                            ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 1
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCAIION PROJECT
DIburse0ment Forecat
1/      2/              ProJect           East AsIa
Quar-   Yew/           Disbursements       Educaton
ters  Semester Absolute  Cumul.    %       Proile %
2   199412        5.0      5.0    7%         0%
4   199611        1.0      6.0    9%         3%
6   199512        2.0      8.0   11%         6%
8   1996/1        3.0     11.0   16%        10%
10   1996/2        4.0     16.0   21%        18%
12   1997/1        5.0     20.0   29%        26%
14   1997/2        8.0     28.0   40%        38%
16   1998/1        7.0     35.0   60%        54%
18   1998/2        8.0     43.0   61%        62%
20   1999/1        7.0     50.0   71%        74%
22   1999/2        6.5     56.5   81%        82%
24   2000/1        6.5     63.0   90%        86%
26   2000/2        4.0     67.0   96%        94%
1J    2B  ::0W171         3.0     70.0   1%
30   2001/2                                  98%
32   2002/1  I                              100%
1/ From approval date
21 Bank fical years and semesters
31 Last disbursement
Disbursement Gaph
80
70
-30 fE-G  
60-
4~~~10
10-o-
1 1994/2  1995/2  1996/2  1997/2  1998/ 2  1999/2  2000/ 2  20011n
1995/1 1996/1 1997/1 1998/1 1999/1 2000/1 2001/1 2002f1
Bank Fiscal Years
OD Appraisal Forecast     E E.A    Ed. Profile
VErDMBWKI                                                                        9003



-219-                                    ANNEX   2
Page 1 of 1
SOCIAUST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule of Key Activities
Cdalndar Yoafs             CY9S         CY94         CYOS         CYSO         CY87          cn8          CYSO
Quaters               1  2  3  411  2  a  411  2  3  411  2  3  411  2 3   411  2 3    41 *2   9  41
I8RD FRscal Yeas                 FY4           FY95    I   FV96    I   FY97    I   FY98             FYM9
Vieamese Fiscal Years    FYS        |   FY94         FY95         FY96          FY87         FY98         FY09
ProleotYeaws             prep. Year 1   1      1    2             3             4            5            6
ItnDroye &uli  Relevancer__________r______r___
Textbooks                                        
Bidding Docum. (ICB)       =
Procurement Plan                 4
Packaiging4
Bid Invitatons
OpenlnglEvaluaeon/Awards                   4                           4          4             4 _
Delivery and Dltdbuton
Teaching Aide for Schools
Proourement of Equlpment Sets (Shop ng)
CompefWtnsI
Teacher Training
Procurement of Equipmentfor 57 Scho s
Grants
Pubilcasion of Research
Workshops (Dlmeminaion)
iMnort Educatin                                           _
Proo. ofEquip. &Teaching Matelas    I          EEEEEEEEEl
Technical Assistance                 EE__E__E__E__EE_EE_EE_EEEEE_EEE_E_- 
Technial Assistanoc                M M M          _I 
ChilWoks & FumHlure               _    M _  _  _H   
Training
Mjkong Delta Schools
Technl Asistanoe
CMi Works & Funituref
Training
Mountainous Areas Sclools
Technica Assistnce
CMI Works & Furniture                                                E HE
Imrxme Manscsment
Network RdionaizatIon
Tsohniro Aseltance (mappinglplannin)    E                    EE__E___E_E____
Training                        n_______________ETE
Education Information System
Procurement of Equipment & Comr
Technical Assistanc
Training
Monitong & Aesament
Procurement of Computers (SoftHard)   *    *  *  **
TeohncalAdstance                     *l                                  E *
Training
Testing
Pdnting (tests, repolts & manuals)
Implementton Capacky
Procurement of Office Equipment
TehnkAsolane (Coordlnaton)
Bank Claranoes 
vErNUP.WR1



SOCIALtST REPUBLIC OF VIET NA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
NATRIX FOR NONITORINO AND EVALUATING PROJECT IMPLEIJENTATION
OBJECTIVE I:             In WuE ELIT? NO RELEVANGE OF PRIttR  EDWCATIo
AGENCY OR
OFFICIAL
SW -OSJECTIVE                                      MEANS INPUT                         RESPONSIBLE               KEY ON=ITORING INDICATORS
FOR
thPLEMENTATtON
A. Suppty ihrpofved textbooks to all primory
school chitdren by strenothening:
1.  the textbook oroductfon system.            1. a)  Introduce'l ol iv chanaes. EPN focus               EPH           1. a)  For toitcv chances. monitor:
(including pubLIshing and printing)               shifts fr                                                                Actua changes to procurement of
   Day-to-day aspects of production                                         goods and services. This aspect
mnragenent to editorial and quality                                     of the project should be
control.                                                                examined during the Annuat
^   In-house authorship to contractirn                                       Reviews of textbook conporent.
such services.
*   Arbitrary assimgnent to competitive
bidding for production tasks.
1. b)  Produce textbooks for all orimary            AN 8 DAN Texts      1. b)  For tbok croduction:
scheki ch1ldren.                                        *   8 copies produced azvxaaly.
2.  the textbook distribution system.          2. a)  Imlement cotlcy chares.                            EPH           2. a)  For oolf ev chanes. manitor:
*   Operationalize Councit of Minister's              and                    U workshops held.
decision (57/HOST) on textbook              AN & DA Texts           *       book bwaks estabtished end at
distribution (I.e. 15X tending, 35X                                     tAich levels (scheoo  or
renting, 50X sales) through formation                                   district).  Difficultles
of school-or district-based book bonks                                  enrountered in establishing book
and second hand book markets.                                           bawbs to be discussed and
Workshops to be held en estabtishmbnt                                   resoltved during Amnml Revfew.
and mnagement of such facilities                                    *   # books sotd.
(possibly using Penang model).                                      a   # books distributed free.
* # books rented.
*   Novo from centrally aWdnistered book                                '   * contrect for distributfon
distribution to contracting for such                                    serioces processed
services. 
2. b)  Renair book w_rehous.                        Gov't Vfet Nan      2. b)  ForJ et  L  k:.
a    aeoss-eubse.oo



OFFICIAL
VA-OBJECTIVE                                        IWAtigPUT                            REUPCUSIBLE               U? KUITORIIW  IUATUtS
I~W EU  ATIOU      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
3.  EN mmmmt  cacit                            3.      Pride tecFmcatl massstmm and                  N Hhun Roe Oev    3.        fIr        cat Mi
±trainizr o:                                      nWd                *   ter-P ofI*eferafee-nwk
prove Wihr selection.                              EPN               *   CoAterperts identffied.
*   Strethen editerl a guidetlnes and                                     *   Constts eged CO staff
-preeedu .                                                                -A ts on site).
t love prodactin saheblLing.                                             *   Consultant paticipation In
*   Strengthen procuint and acIoentanCy                                       Arunal Reve  em      tercises.
skills 1n EPN.                                                            For trnls
*Trol nine, ccu"reefs dbffimd.
Cinidfdates setected.
*  s*taff menths of training
undErteken.
4.  tex *Llk cotet                             4.0)  Pfro_od technial  msistIand             " VWM  u     Res Dw        47 ')hI"I
trantnim to: ,                                     0w                 a  Terms tnd  t  eerence defined.
*   Icprove capacity to test new materilals            EP                 *   tCamtelfpats Identiffed.
and undertake content evalustion.                                    *   Consuttants engaogd (C staff
^   Inprove maiwacript content,                                               mnths en site).
preperatfon, editfng. and filustratfon                               *   Consultant participation in
and design.                                                              Arnat Review exercises.
.                                              for trsinin/studw totvs:' ra  "
*   Training courses def nod.
* Candidates setected.
*   # staff onths of training
wetkn.
tar mms ratrtals devtoroent:
* # cowlter s prepared  revsdse
and teote.
4. b)  Select. Mur 2haso and translate samtpe       A  Adam/iFinance    4. b)  Fot for lon raterlats  "achased:
textbooks frmu abroad.   -nd                                         *   U tittes purchased, translated.
EPN                   tested.
5.  textbook asnearance and d6rabiLlt.         S. a)  poide technical assistance and                AN  uman Res Oew    S. a)
maiulome                                          ao -nd*   Te cs ofReference dbe1fned.
*   Iwprove printin  tecMmiquss.                 A  AdkdunFinanee        *   Cousterparts identified.
*   Computerize layout to prepare for                                    *   Consultents engasgd (# staff
offset printing.                                                         months on site).
* Consultant partfeipation In
Aeut Review exercises.               , 
*   Tenders Issued, e  n            C
procured wid installed, ENP
staff trained in its use.
S. b)  Purdhase cant throtmh IC.                                         S. b)  FFr
paper eastage rate. pmnitored.



AGENCY OR
OFFICIAL
-   SU8-08JECTIVE                                  KAhNS/tNPJT                          RESPONSIBLE               KEY NONITORBIG ISDICATOIS
FOR
_________________________________________    _______________________________________ _                IMPLEMENTATION_IMPLEMETATION
6.  the Inwact of textbooks an jaemIne.       6. a)  imptemd   t noltev changes:                         EPH           6. a)  For Pootcy chanhes. monftors
*   Consolidate U titles for each grate               and               *   Consolidatien process.
(21 total for all 5 grades)                 AN & DAN Texts          *   Workbook development process.
* Introduce workbooks (9 total)
6. b)  Ata school  ib ares:                            Provincial       6. b)  forlFrarle:
*   improve p    cal                          Sthool Committees         *          libry facilities upgraded.
*   Purehe rference books.                            and               *       reference sets purchased and
AN Adufn/Ffnance            delifvered to Ifbrarfes.
6. c)  smoort n-servi ce te         trainin:         A & DAN Texts      6. e)  for fn-service teacher trainine:
*   Produca training saterials (20 titles)                              *   U caterials produced.
*   Provide courses in materials                                        *   U courses conducted.
utilization for teacher trainees.                                   *   8 teachers trafned.
Purhase, translate end distribute
samples of fbest praectice pedagogicat
_______________ _____________________  itterature  to  all  training  institutes.
D. Supply fimrved teachfng aide to allt
primary_ etssrooms.                           _                                                                        __
1.      Pro  ide standard kit of teechins aids.                         1.      ForI         materals:tt
*   Dafins and cost besic package.             Ed. Equipment Co.             FSnstize lrsts.
*   Procure kits through ICB.                   AN AdeinlFinence        *   U kits procured.
*   Distribute to schools and olassrooms.      Diet. Ed. Service        *   U kits delivered to schoots.
2.      Pnchers to                                 AN Nusen tea Dev    2.       For self -ade teadinef aids:
=yl   snd   eoe f-gide  teachfna                  and
PiA -                          ~~~~~~~~Prov. Ed. service
*   Constitute "Juries* (i.e. committees                                *   Juries formed by end of year 1.
to judge the competitfons) at the
provincial and national levels.
*   fold exhibitions of setf-produced                                   *   Exhibitions held during year 2
teaching side at the provincial and                                     and year 4 of the project, witth
national levels.                                                        prizes awarded immediately
*   Award winners a packet of "model"                                        afterward.
-_________________________________                       teaching     aids.
0 



AGENCY OR
OFFICIAL
SUB-OSJECTIVE                                       NEANSIInpuT                          RESPONSIBLE               KEY MONITORING INDICATORS
FOR
IMPLEMENTATION                                                 I
C. Strengthen pre-servife training at teacher
training institutions by improving:
1.  Learngna conditions for teacher            1.      Provide budoet CS3000Ischool  for                                 1.      For committees:
trainees.                                          a    iion of books. mtersand aistco                                             tes formed and equfpment
eguiIment.                                                                lists suggeted by the end of
*   Corstitute materials/equipment              Prov. Ed. Service             year I of project.
comiittees at each institution to draw                               *   acceptance of items.
up lists, liaise with project                                        *   evaluation of utilization of
authorities, irspect items upon                                           items.
receipt, and evaluate usefulness.
2.      Purchase items.                             AN AduinlFinance    2.        for materials and eguIment:
*    isCttsenproduced and agreed.
* ICB tenders Issued.
* * items purchased and
distributed to institutfons.
2.  otorturities for classroom                 2. a)  Suonort second-vear site visits for           Ah Teacher Trng.    2. a)  For classroom observations:
observation and  nroblenmoriented                  alt trainees.                                                         *   # site visits undertakten.
research -b  teacher trainees.                 *   Finance costs of trarsport and                                       *   Trawtl and miscellaneous
subsistence.                                                              research epenses recorded.
*   Finance costs of publishing and                                      *   5 monographs pubtished.
disseminating findings of visits.
2. b)  Provide eaufmnent to teacher training        AN AdmInlFinance    2. b)  For eauiaaent2
institutioeW  to print traInee                                       *   Lists produced and agreed.
monocrarhs (typewriters and                                          *   ICB tenders issued.
reprographic equlpment).                                             *   I items purchased and
distribured to instft tlons.
* Sch.k. inspection amn acceptance
finatized.
3.  Disseaination and oimvct of classroom      3.      ProvIde incentives to teacher trainees       AN Teacher Trng.    3.        For research incentives:
observation.                                       to undertake site vWsts.
*   Constitute "Juries" (i.e. comittees                                  *   Juries formed by middle of year
to review  onographs) at the                                             1.
provincial and national levels.
*   Hold rational cofpetitions.                                           *   Competitions held snualty.
*   Pubisdh best monogr phs in a journal                                 *   Journals published annually.          I'd
and dIstribute copifes to all priary
teacher traininn institutions.            __                                                                      G



AGENCY OR
OFFICIAL
SIXUOWJECTIVE                                    MEAS/IIPUT                          RESPONSItLE              KEY NOKITaOIC IlDICATORS
FOR
_________________________________________  ___________________________________-_____              INPLE NEITATIOU    ______IPLEMENTA ION
0. Suppy pedagogically appropriate learning
and teaching mterials to ethnic minority
children by developing and disseminating
local language and smiltitrade learning
materfals.
1. Provide techicat assIstance to:                                    1. for tearnin7 mterials devetoysment:
P study existing, curri ulua.                  AN & DAN Ethnic        *   survey and cataloguing coepteted
*   Catalogue existing instructional                                      by end of year 1.
materials in ethnic minority
languages.                                                        *   * titles revised and developed
*   Revise existing and develop new                                       according to the foltloing
materifls in 8 languages,                                             categories: ethnic language.
*   Develop materials suitable for                                        grade or amiltigrade. and
multigrade classes.                                                   Vietnemese lanSuage.
* Develop materials suitable for
teaching Vietnuaese as the national
language.
CoWpile and modernize dictionaries In                                 U workshops conducted; U              N
4 languages                                                           participants in each; outcome of
*   Conduct writers' workshops to foster                                   workshops.
ltiterature development in ethnic
minority languages.
*   Coordinate field testing of materials.                            *   Pretiminary field testing
conducted.
*   Evaluate and provide feedback to                                  *   Final evaluation caondcted by
curricultu  revision process.                                         middle of year 5.
2. Print and distribute materials developed        AN & DM Texts      2. For orinttno ad distribution of
for ethnic minority use                              and              materials:
District! School       *      t titles ard copies produced
Comittees                according to the fotltoing
categoies: ethnic languge,
grade or aultitrade. and
Vietnanes language.
*   # materitals distributed to
chfidren an clessroams by         QQ
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  categories.                   .
E. Increae effectiveness of I 000 primary 1r y"
teachers in 200 schools by Incorporating                                                                                                                       0 w
milttigrade and biltngual pedagcgles (i.e.
teaching mother tongue literacy and
Vietnamese as a national language).



AGEC OR
OFFICIAL
SWUI-dECTIVE                                        _MSINPUT                            0siOi1s  0R NN INII IICAUtS
FOR
.                            .   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MLFfNIIATlIO.                                             
1.  Ieent rt£.j!                                    AN & DOM Ethnie     1.  or olieest
* Using agreed criteria, select a                                         Setect p rtielik tSng teacher
teecher training centers to be used                                     trnfng institut            by ad of
for special teacber training                                            year  I.
activities under Prolect.
2. Pt to                            teacher         AN Adain/Finmnce    2. for.aRdiet:
Pt      Jm5titutesan nPr cial                         and               *       dTee    Issued, equipen
B tio OflticeS.                                 A  Teadcer Trng.             procured and installed, retevant
-- Purchase amndodelver eonputers office                                   teacher training and Provinciat
equipeent and suppIfea.                                                 Education Staff trained in its
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  __ _  _  _    _  _  _  _  _  _     _  _  _  _  _  _    _    _   __            _        a     nde.'_*
3. fI..KmsLnauetotin                                AnNUumn Res ow0   3. lor tEgg Miiasist               ed
re Cadre!!.             wand               *    em   fRefoerence defind
AN Teacher Ting.        *   Counterparts identified.
Consultants engaged (# staff
months an site)
Urdertake study to determ1ne                                        *   Initial survey/stucly capletted. 
appropriate training  ethodologies.
*   Determine curricult.. content and                                   *   Content defined.
sequencing.
*   Select 16 POET fcore cadre."                                        *   Core cadre selected.
*   Conduct teacher training workshops.                                 *   U workshops conwduted.
* Conduct "core cadre, trainins
w_  ehoos.                                                 _
F. Strengthen MUST in rdnority educatfin by                                                           AN & DA ETHNIC
increasing capcity of Rearch Center for
Ethnic Ninority Education (RCENE) to
huport appropriate pedagogies (i.e.
maltigrade teaching, mother-tenua
literacy, and teaching Vietnmaes as a
national lanuage).  _                                      _
1. Undrtakeao~ i  actonsncessary to:.        Gov't Viet mom      1. For soticieas
*   rEtsstkaebltcir2 cecn'tteers.Jlcessarv to:   ¢cv t Viet ba3         *   Designate sites, budgets, staff
for centers.
*   Secure organizational support at                                    *   Form relevant support
national and provincial levels                                          organitations.
(through fornation of steering
Committee, Advsory Councils, and
_____________________________________f intemmntatfon units)
2. UTtu                                                                 2. ter civil uorks:                         Io
-________________________     2_                                             _                                 Cuiplete renowatian of centers. h



-226-                            MUE  23
Page 7 of 12
14b
i 



C STW  Its:              EAUILITArE SETIIRWTIS t1 TuCTE I            hPROtE SCOWL SAITATI    AID ETIN NO        TO ACCEsUEKWSW ARM
AGENCY OR
OFFtCtAL
SUB-OBJECTIVE                                     MEANS/INPUT                         RESPONSIBLE              KEY NoUtTORiG INDICATORS
fOR
IMPLEMENTATION
A. Under Phase t, rehabilitate and repafr                                                            AU & DA Const.
classrooms and psevide maintenance mnuals
for their upkeepo design prototypes ald for
and provide adequate sanitary facillties
(Latrines. drainage, drinking water); and
provide furniture to selected sites In the
ffive   larmest   cities.                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1. Conrict district-based school moping to              IRDS           1. Number of sps coupteted ard sites
identify sites.                                                        fdentified.
2. Consolidate data aud select sitas.            Dist. Ed. Service     2. Condition of Credit Effectiveness to
and              select targets: (# classrooms for
IRDS              repair, reptacemwnt; # schools for
_________________________________________  _________________  sanitary uLoradino)
3. Repair/rehabilitate elassrooms.                 AM & DA Const.    3. # classrooms repaired.
4. Replace classrooms.                             AN & DA  Const.     4. 9 cteasromas replaced.
S. ProWde sanitary faclilties/drainage.            AN & DAN Const.    5. 9 sites provided with amenities.
6. Provide source of potable water.               MA & DAN Const.    6. 8 sites provided with water.
7. Provide standard furniture items.              School ag t. Ccas.   7.    celassrooms furnished.
S. T.A. and budget to develop and distribute       AN & DAN Const.    S. Manuals developed and distributed to
siaple maintenance manuals.                                            affected schools.
B. Under Phase it rehabilitate and repair
clasrooss and provide maintenanye canuats
for their upkeep; desin prototypes for and
provide adequate sanitary facilities
C latrines, drainage, drinking water); and
provide furniture to selected sites in
eleven_po vc inces_in_the_Nekona_Delta.__        _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _    __  _ _ _  _ _ _  _   _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _
1. CocrAct district-boe2d school mepping to              IRDS          1. Nfer of maops coapleted and sites        Po
__ dentify sites.                                                      Identiffed.
2. Corsotfdate data and select sftes.              AN & DAN Const.     2. Within I year of Credit
Effectiveness to select targets: (         so
cteastoans for repfr, reptasement       o
neuw omstnctiui U schools for
3______e___________eh__________tat__________ _r_______M___S__OM___c____t________3_______clsanitaro rupradir)
_________________________________3. Repair/rehabilitate claserocas.                      AN L DAN Const.     3. 9 classrooms repaired.



AUNCY OR
OFFICIAL
SUB-OBJECTIVE                                      WEANS/I1PUT                         RESPONSIBLE               KEY MONITORING INDICATORS
FOR
*                                                                                 l"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IPL£.ENETATION   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
4. Reptece classroom.                               AN & DAM Ctnst.     4. # classrooms replaced.
S. Provide sanitary facilftfes/drainage.            A  & DAM Conmt.     S. # sites provided with amenities.
___________ ____________________  06. Provide source of potable water.    _A  & DAN Comst.              6. O sites provided with water.
_________________ _    7. Provide standard furniture items.          School Ngmt. Coma.   7. U ctassrooms furnished.
8. T.A. and budget to develop and distribute       AM & DAN Const.      8. Menuals developed and distributed to
_____________________________________  sita e  mafntenance  manuals.                                         affected  schools.
C. Under Phase III, rehabilftate ard repair
classrooms and provide maintenance ,anuals
for their upkeep; desin prototyrpes for and
provide adequate sanitary facilities
(latrines, drainage, dfrifnki water); and
provide furniture to 8 ethnic dinoritfes fn
e i h_ m u t i o s p o i c s                                                                                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1. CorAuct district-based school mapping to               IRDS          1. Nuwber of maps completed and sites
identify sites.                                                         identified.
2. Consolfdate data and select sites.               AN  DAN Const.      2. Within 2 years of Board Presentation
to select targets: CU classroom for
repair, replacement; S schools for
sanitary upgrading)
_3. Repalr/rehabilftate classrooms.                 AN & DA  Const.      3. O classroom  repaired.
.4. Replace classrooms.                            MA I DAN Const.    4. 9 ctassrooms replaced.
5. Provide sanitary facilities/drainage.            AN & DAN Const.     S. # sites provided with amenities.
6. Provide source of potable water.                 AN & DAN Const.     6. 9 sites provided with water.
7. Provide standard furniture items.              School Nmut. Camm.   7. U classroom furnished.
8. T.A. and budget to develop and distribute        AN & DA Const.    8. ManuaLs developed and distributed to
siple maintenance manuals.                                              affected schools.



GRJAMM  Itnt            uin              OF PRwn   EUATIUU
5U3-OSJECTIVE                  /1                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OFFICIAL
AOSUOBJECTIVE                                   WSSJINPUT                        RESPONSIC E UEY HOUITORIEG tYIcaTolS
FOR
,_______________________________________  _____________________________________       INPLENENTATIO
A. Japrove capacity at nstienel, provincial
and city levels to systmmticalty cotlect
and analyze education statistfcs bY.                _
1. Oeaiiatino adoinistrative lcees for     1. a)  lmdemet cotIcv decisons. as needed.                          1. a For o    
fntien. (i.e. organizatImeno bac.                                                                             *   Pass    nistrat1e regutaffes,
and pyIcal tocation within NEt ad                                                                                  s needed.
each Provincial or citq Edhcation                                                                             *   Staff offices, es needed.
Secrove)        o*        staff designated for training.
1. b) Aemaire adeouate feaclities.                                 1. b)  _or sites:
* a sites acqudred.
* Sites aemired by end of ear 1.
2. Devetolino acoronrlate software for     2. a)  Provide tchnfcal eassistance to:         AM Humnn Res Dev    2. a) For technicat asistance
processing education statistics.           *   Design software packae.                                            Tetms of Reference defined.
osts, and financial data.                  *   Assist with design of specificatlens.                          *   Counterparts identif led.
*   Assist with software purchase and                              *   consultants engaged (# staff         S
installation.                                                      nemths on site).
*   Do trial rius and de-bug system.                                                                        0
* Train tlOT staff in the use of the
software progras.
* As neoessary, design training programs
for staff of Provincial and CitY
Education Service.
2. b)  Purchase software throughICB.                               2. b)
.b)for softtvare:
Tendeis Isued, softiare
procured, NT staff trained In
its use bw consultants.
3. acMirfnr aCDrODriate hardua!e for       3.      Provide microaonouters to Proincial      AN Adin/Firnance    3. 9 computers procuned.
processing educatlon statistics e                 Ct Education Services and train               t               crputers installed with software
costs and financiat data.                      sta.                                                           at designated sites.
* local staff trained fn usage.
B. laprove capacity to rato0nalize existing
sehool network throush:                    _                                                                                                               2
1.  Sul1dm. awen    o nelobborna           I.      Provide study tours and feltloushis to    AN Htmn Res Dev    1. 9 POE staff seeted eid trained.
   ONT                                                            setected end trained.                  o 
*   Prwincial Edction Services                                     * District Edwation Service staf f
*   Distriet Education Services                      _selected and trained.
2. Elevatino diatomue internallt.          2.      Nost In-coeutrt seminars.                AN NUwan Res DOv    2. # seminars eoniwted btY topic.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~# istaft attd ing by tewtls.



AGENC OR
OFFtCIAL
OSA-OBJECTIVE                                     KWhh/ImU                            RESPOSIBLE                KEY NONITORIS ISICATOS
FOR
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IONEE"^T0
3.  Research cn rationqtization and           3.      Undertake stidles and orovide snecific       AN & DAN N1E      3. 9 studies cowndcted bY topic.
a E vetonme    ot the  svster.       r tSo.       ins.                                                   type of folloup rec omed
C. Iqwove caepacty to assess student
Derformence bv:
1.  ,,usiontinm adwinintrative tocus tor      1. a)  Ilet_At eoticy decisions, as needed.          AN 6 DAN NE       1. a)  For motlcies:
uncth i . (i.e. organizationsl home                                                                                  *   Pass  ainistrative regulations
wid physiat tocatfon within noUT).                                                                                       as needed.
* Staff offices, asned.
0 staff designated for training.
t. b)  Acauire adeste faeclites                                        1* b)    *_r aI
Sf toewaqXred by end of year t.
2. eoirleo                   IBM              2.                AmNt toftar and                     Addrnfrinance    2.    ofLr sofar:  Sofware
hardaem   for protxssing stanlardized            nardwarg) tbrouqh ICB.     -* Tndv   sl      ott
te ts.                                                                                                                   procured, OET staff trained in
Its use by consultants.
2. *   caoputers procured.
*   camputems instalted with               o
software t designated site.
* iocal staff trained {n usage.
3.  Develoolne and actnisterin. tests.        3. a)  Provide technical assistance and              A  & DA M8E       3. a) Iot terncal  ass ce
0to-Aljj1J5 ferrto Reference definfed.
Dvelpin   managing, and distributing                                   Couterports identified.
tests.                                                             *   Crksultanfts engage  (9 staff
mtnths on site).
3. b)  Provide budmet for centina assessment                           3. b)  for orfntineltestins:
ater1als. sdhdnisterlnQ tests.                      a       tests developed
deve2eanin  reoetts.                                               *      imes administered dering
project.
* Reports issued to MOUT
authorities; evatuate test
__________________-           findirims and testins e   fwerience.
0. Iqprove capacity to iw lement fnvestment
erolects In prinary educatlon.                                             _                   __                    _



AGECY OR
OFFICIAL
SUB-OBJECTIVE                                      HEANS/lXPUt                          RESPOMSIBLE              KEY MIWTORIZU  INDICATORS
_________________________________________   ___________________________________                  IWPLEMENtATIOOI    ______IMPLEMENTATIO
1.  Establish Prolect ImmlementatSon Units    1. a)  Staff unit.                                     Govt of VN        1. a)  Project Coordination Committee
in the MOE? and at the various                *   Identify local staff to serve on                                         estabtlshed, staffed, and
gR=tatnaL tevets of the Proleet.                  Project Coordination Committee.                                          consultants hired.
tdentify and hire eonsuLtants to serve
as Assistant Manager for
Administration and Finance.
1. b)  Establish local imlmtentatfon                  Govt of VW        1. b)  tocal units estabtished.
*   Identify Deputy Assistant Managers.
* Form Project Comnittees at Provincial,
DistrSct, and School levels.
1. c)  ProcurviclesTanoffice eguloment             AN AdSin/Finance    1. c)  Equipment procured and
______ ______ ______ _____ ______ ______ ___  fri M ProJec   Untf N Tnstalled.
1. d)  Provide budqet for inere3ental              AN AdmIn/Finance    1. d)  Operating acco.mt provided.               w
_oerat ng costs of Poect Unit,
2.  identify future Investment orolects.       2. Provide techncal assistance for studles.        AM AdinFfinance    2.       Studies undertaken;
recommendations md regardin
future project.



-232-                   AM    24
Page 1 of 2
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC QF VIET NAM
PRIMNIY EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPERVISIONL P141
Approximate                    Duration                                  Staff
DatN           Activity      (weeks)      Skill Requirement           Weeks
Dec. 1993            PLW           2            TM, IS, TX                 6
Mar. 1994            SPN           2            TM, IS, TX, AS, ET        10
June 1994            SPN           2            TM, IS                     4
Oct. 1994            AR            2            TN, IS, TX, AS, ET        10
Feb. 1995            SPN           2            TM, IS                     4
June 1995            SPN           2            TN, IS                     4
Oct. 1995            AR            2            TM, IS, TX, AS, ET        10
April 1996           SPN           2            TM, Is                     4
Oct. 1996            MTR           2            TM, IS, TX, AS, ET        10
April 1997           SP            2            TM, IS                     4
Required Skills
TM    Task Manager/Educator
IS    Implementation Specialist/Architect
TX    Textbook Production Specialist/Financial Analyst
AS    Assessment Specialist
ET    Ethnic Minority Education Specialist/Linguistics Specialist
,AtXi&Xt
PLW   Project Launch Workshop
SPN   Supervision
AR    Annual Review
MTR   Kid-Term Review
FR    Final Review
PCM   Project Completion Mission
1'    Based on the October 1993 Board date in the present lending timetable.



-233-                  ANNEX 24
Page 2 of 2
Approximate                   Duration                                 Staff
Date           Activity     (weeks)       Skill Requirement         Weeks
Oct. 1997           AR            2            TM, IS, TX, AS, ET       10
April 1998           SPN          2            TM. IS                    4
Oct. 1998           AR            2            TM, IS, TX, AS, ET       10
April 1999           SPN          2            TM, IS                    4
Oct. 1999           FR            2            TM, IS, TX, AS, ET       10
April 2000           PCX           3           TM, IS                    6
Recuired Skills
TM    Task Manager/Educator
iS    Implementation Specialist/Architect
TX    Textbook Production Specialist
AS   Assessment Specialist
ST    Ethnic Minority Education Specialist/Linguistics Specialist
AEctivi&y
PLW   Project Launch Workshop
SPN   Supervision
AR    Annual Review
MTR  Kid-Term Review
FR    Final Review
PCX   Project Completion Mission



-234-                         AME25L.....
Page 1 of 4
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAN
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ANNUAL. MID-TERM. AND FINAL REVIEWS
1.    In addition to normal project supervision, three kinds of special
reviews would take place under the project:
- an Annual Review, to review the progress of project implementation
over the preceding twelve months and to review the project
implementation plan for the next twelve months;
- a Mid-Term Review, to take stock of multi-year project accomplish-
ments and guide course correction of fine-tuning for the remaining
project years; and
- a Final Review, to assess overall achievement of the project's
physical and pedagogical objectives.
Each is summarized below.
Annual Reviews
2.    A review of project implementation during the preceding year and a
review of the project implementation plan for the upcoming year would take
place between October and December of each year until the project eloses. The
first review would be a Project Launch Workshop and would take place soon
after anticipated Board Approval. Annual reviews would focus principally on
year-to-year progress toward the achievement of the project's physical and
pedagogical objectives and the functioning of the various units responsible
for project implementation, but would also provide the Borrower and IDA to
discuss longer term issues on a periodic basis. The following specific tasks
would be reviewed in each Annual Review:
- Progress in mobilizing counterpart funds.
- Progress in organizing New School Committees.
- Progress in preparing school maD.
- Progress in preparing school construction plana.
- Progress in completing civil woxks.
- Previous year's experience in textbook development, production, and
distribution, including a review of the EPH's Business Plan for the
upcoming year (interalia, parameters of (i) production costs, (ii)
distribution costs, (iii) numbers produced, and (iv) numbers
purchased/rented for a fee/lent free of charge.



-235-                           ANNEX 25
Page 2 of 4
- Progress in implementation of pedagogical aspects of Ethnic
Minorities Education, specifically, the progress in producing
learning materials and training teachers for multi-graded teaching
situations, for mother-tongue literacy, and for the teaching of
Vietnamese as the national language.
- Experience with technical assistance during previous year and plans
for hiring technical assistance required in upcoming year.
- Experience with stgoY_to£r during previous year and plans for study
tours during the upcoming year.
- Progress in undertaking the Iational Sample-Based Assessment.
3.    The Annual Review of the functioning of the units responsible for
project implementation would examine:
- the staffing and functioning of the Project Coordination Unit;
- procurement performance;
. budgeting procedures;
- the timeliness and efficiency of the flow of funds;
- accounting and auditing procedures and timeliness; and
- staffing at the provincial, district, and commune levels, and spot
checks of their performance.
Mid-Term Revi
4.    The Mid-Term Review would assess the same factors as the Annual Reviews,
as well as other indicators for which changes are more likely to be observable
on a multi-year than on an annual basis. These additional factors include:
- initial results (in terms of reduced repetitition and drop-out and
improved pupil performance) among ethnic-minority pupils as a result
of the project's Ethnic Minorities Education Inputs;
- performance in carrying out the first National Sample-based
Assessment, and results;
- general results of the implementation of the project's civil works
component (by the Mid-Term Review, civil works in the 5 cities and in
the Mekong Delta should have been completed, as should the first
portion of construction in the 8 ethnic-minority provinces);
- general performance with procurement and competitive bidding;
- the quality of project-supported research being done at the Primary
Teacher Schools; and



-236-                         ANNEX 25
Page 3 of 4
- the experience with provincial and district competitions for teaching
aids produced by the teachers themselves.
The Kid-Term Review would take place during the fourth year of the project
(presumably, October 1996) and would replace the Annual Review in that year.
As needed, it would propose mid-course corrections for consideration by IDA
and the Government.
Final Review
5.    The Final Review would assess the same factors as the Annual Reviews and
the Mid-Term Review, as well as other indicators for which changes are more
likely to be observable once the project has been completed. These additional
factors include:
- performance of Parents' Associations and local People's Committees in
maintaining the civil works repaired or provided new under the
project;
- changes in pupil achievement in primary education, as shown by the
results of three National Assessments, which may be due to the impact
of the project;
- achievements and problems with ethnic-minority education, and plans
for expanding the successful aspects of the program to other ethnic
minorities; and
- the extent to which the Education Publishing House has become self-
financing, and long-term trends in proportions of pupils who buy
textbooks, rent them for a fee, or borrow them free of charge.
The Final Review would take place during the final year of the project. It
would replace the Annual Review in that year and serve as an input to the
Project Completion Report.
Methodology
6.    The Project Coordination Unit would be responsible for preparing, prior
to each Annual Review, a report on the previous year's experience and a work
plan for the upcoming year. This report would be augmented to cover the
topics listed above for the Mid-Term Review and the Final Review.
7.    Information on pupil performance would be assessed every two years
through the Project's Assessment Component. The information from the first
National Assessment would be available for the Mid-Term Review; the
information from three National Assessments would be available for the Final
Review.
8.    Data on other aspects of project implementation would be gathered,
amalgamated, and analyzed throughout project implementation under the
Project's Monitoring and Evaluation Component. This information would be
summarized annually and be made available for the Annual, Mid-Term, and Final
Reviews.



-237-                          ANNB 25
Page 4 of 4
9.    Supplementing the assessment findings and the monitoring data would be
annual education statistics collected by the Department of Finance and
Statistics of the Ministry of Education and Training, information on education
finance from the Ministry of Finance, information on project expenditures and
the flow of funds from the financial records of the Project Coordination Unit,
and interviews with technical assistants, provincial and district education
authorities, parents, teachers, pupils, and ethnic-minority leaders to assess
local commitment to and participation in the project and important aspects of
project implementation which assessment and monitoring data cannot adequately
capture.



SOCIAUST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Organizational Chart of the Ministry of Education and lralning
Leadership ofTMTnistuy
MinTsterehl   u
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rsac ,nttts C.tes Iuli Hose.
Higher1oce                                 ustVeMnstet    VceMinster                Vice-MEniste               VicduMirster
Educatin                                          ngr                   EucdEnucacaton
Adminastmtnos Plising u
acont-Grsduate              Breauxt ofdPiianng                        and  _      Generalw               an Pechooning
_    Educaton   Administratbn          Finance            _~~~~~Tache Truationing          Education 
ReserganizationalaInemstbnai                                                         ecctlon Xr             Edtnga|  o 
Student       |
Affairs
Research Insmfutes, Centers, Putnshw House ...
tional e fhO  Research                               Design IrOA                                            O t " rlontat '
Insde      l        |    Isfte        l           Construcoon   |                                         Cenler       .
-|'Edcto an             -      Fleviwa     l          Pub[isng House|'
.~~~Eoh                            Revie



SOCIAUST REPUBUC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Coorndinton Unit
National
Project Direcor
-........(Dr. Pham Minh Hac)---------
National
Projetaagemnent
CouncH                   ~~~~National                         Comtee
Proect Manf.iger
Assistnt Maager.  ssistnt Maager.  stantM~gokssistant Manager                Assistant Manager.     Assistant Manager.      AssatMngr
forAl                          on                                      omoet            Dvlpet                                             MNSl.
fnd Aftnneo              Compnen            Tofo   opnn                Ethnic Minority       Human Resource            monitorirng&          TWJ   Tr aning
Finance                 Deput Assistant         Deputy Assistant        Deputy Assistant
offier                 MaaeoaagrMngr
fortheSouth              = %o teSuth          fMor heSouth~
Bugetng
LProcurement
Dept Assistant
frthSouth
based In Ho Chi Mlnh City
based InNha Tran



SOCIAUST REPUBUC OF VIET NAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Management Structure for the Ethnic Minority Component
FUNDING & PARTNER AGENCIES
World Bank                                        STEERING COMMITTEE
UNICEF                    .............                                                    RESEARCH CENTER FOR
---ETHNIC MINORI'TY EDUCATION
World Vision                                    - National Project Manager,                       (RCEME)
Primary Education Project
- Assistant Manager,
NATIONAL ADVISO8RY COUNCIL                               Ethnic Minority Component
FOR ETHNIC MINORITY                                 -Acutn
EDUCATiON (NACEAfE)                 ....- Accountant
- Primary Education Advisor
- Assistant Manager. Textbook Component   ............    (UNICEF)
- Assistant Manager, Construction                           - Applied Linguistics Advisor
Component                                                   (World Vision)
- Assistant Manager for Administration
and Finance
- Language Specialists
- Ethnic Minority Education Specialists
,    . .   ~~ETHNIC MINORITY                   .                          .ETHNIC MINORITY,
PARTNER              FOR THE NORTH                    PROViNCE               PROVINCE                FOR TIE SOUT                 PARTNER
AGENCY                                          ADOROY                                                   THEIL    AVSOUTCONCLSAGENCY
ADVISORS                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADVISORS
ADVISORS        - Assistant Manager, Ethnic      (in Son La, Hoa Binh,    (in Gia Lal, Kon Tum,  - Deputy Assistant Manager.   - Ethnic Minority
EPriomary          Minority Component              Lang Son, Yen Bai,     and Ninh Thuan            Ethnic Minority Component     Literacy Advisor
Education        - Specialist in Multi-Grade Teaching   and Lao Cai Provinces)   Provinces)       - Secretary                    (VWord Vision)
Advisor (UNICEF)  - Secretary    - Data Processor   - provincial and district    - provincial and district  - Accountant        - Ethnic Minority
- Applied Linguistics  - Accountant    - Driver      education authorities   education authorities  - Data Processor               Education Advisor
Advisor (World    - Language Team - Thaig          - ethnic minority leaders   - ethnic minority leaders    - Driver             (NCF
VAsion)           - Language Team - Muong           and specialists        and specialists        - Language Team - Giarai       (UNICEF)
- Language Team - Nung           - teachers              -teachers              - Language Team - Bahnar
- Language Team - Hmong                                                         - Language Team - Chami
- Language Team - Sedang



MAP SECTION



IBRO 23193
CHINACHINA
yet,~~~~~~~~~~~~e
tal                     oucig                                                       V CG  ,
ALAYA~I
, XTIIAW ~NQ, Ha 
LAO  PEOPLE'S\           Shoh,q N   lI                                                  -
2  DEMOCRATIC                                                     VIET NM
REPUBLIC                    Thanh moo PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
HANOI PHASE ONE(Five Molr Cities)
h  PHASE TWO(Mekang Delta Provinc)
PHASE THREE(Mountoinous Province)
s         _>              \  ~~~~~~~~~Ha Tmnh
ENflANE   Q      \                         _>~~~ RIVERS
g nh                        PROViNCE BOUNDARIES
-'  ~  INfERNATIONAL BOUNDARiES
-    THAILAND                     H<j
<            i    Q;~~~~~~ng Narn-
cf             >  t;} ~~Nong
TIOMETR
I ~~~~~~~~~~Qui NhQn
\  ~~~~ 4             nJ ~~~~ Phu Yven
h             r~~~~~onle  C AM  B obI A                      DcLac-
L           ~~~~Sop\
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DCME 1992h  Te
23193bk.IMA 81993Hoa
PHiNOM PE*I  ]t         M (        C:       a    r 
L >} 6w~~~~~Bnh Tlulloa
Phan Thiet
Q A n.t   \ti SoRgo-\              ~~South Chino
\ > \    \ I w      H~~~o Chi Minh                           7v
5 t            - *^J S                    ~~~~~~~~~0 50   100  150  200  250
DECEMBER 1992
23193btlrMA 8/U993



