                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 25967

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-25480)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR49.6 MILLION (US$70 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                            TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM




                                                 FOR A

                                      VN-PRIMARY EDUCATION




                                              April 21, 2003




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective September 1993)

                           Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong
                               US$ 1.00 = Dong 10,700

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                               July 1 -   June 30

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS    -             Country Assistance Strategy
CPRGS  -             Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy
DCA     -            Development Credit Agreement
DFID   -             Department For International Development
EMIS    -            Education Management Information System
EPH     -            Education Publishing House
GOV    -             Vietnam Government
IDA    -             International Development Association
MOET   -             Ministry of Education and Training
MTR    -             Mid Term Review
NIES   -             National Institute of Education Science
PCU    -             Project Coordination Unit
PEDC   -             Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children
PEP    -             Primary Education Project
PPCU   -             Provincial Project Coordination Unit
PSC    -             Project Steering Committee
SAR    -             Staff Appraisal Report
SDR    -             Special Drawing Rights
TLS    -             Textbook Lending Scheme
UNDP   -             United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO -             United Nations Educational, Scientific & Cultural Organization

                          Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
               Country Manager/Director:     Klaus Rohland
                Sector Manager/Director:     Emmanuel y. Jimenez
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Binh Thanh Vu

                                          VIETNAM
                                VN-PRIMARY EDUCATION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27

Project ID: P004835                                                      Project Name: VN-PRIMARY EDUCATION
Team Leader: Binh Thanh Vu                                               TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: May 28, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: VN-PRIMARY EDUCATION                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-25480
    Country/Department: VIETNAM                                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

         Sector/subsector: Primary education (95%); General education sector (3%); Central
                            government administration (1%); Sub-national government
                            administration (1%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Indigenous peoples (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
          PCD:   06/22/1990                                        Effective:                         01/31/1994
    Appraisal:   10/18/1991                                            MTR:                           12/01/1997
     Approval:   10/26/1993                                         Closing: 06/30/2003               12/31/2003

     Borrower/Implementing Agency:         SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND
                                           TRAINING
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Jemal-ud-din Kassum                                 Russell Cheetham
Country Manager:           Klaus Rohland                                       Callisto E. Madavo
Sector Manager:            Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                                 J. Shivakumar
Team Leader at ICR:        Binh Thanh Vu                                       David A. Klaus
ICR Primary Author:        Binh Thanh Vu
The ICR team includes: Luis Benveniste; Carol H.L. Chen Ball; Susiana Iskandar and Nga Quynh Nguyen
2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

 Institutional Development Impact:M

                Bank Performance:S

            Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U                                 S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No
Note that the project design is rated marginally satisfactory in the text. There is no such indication available in
this session.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project had three development objectives: (a) to improve the quality and relevance of primary
education; (b) to rehabilitate existing primary education infrastructure and extend access; and (c)
to strengthen management of the primary education system.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not Applicable

3.3 Original Components:

                         Components                                Appraisal Estimate total     Ratings
                                                                               cost             at MTR
                                                                         (US$ million)
                                                                  Total        IDA      GOV
To improve the quality and relevance of primary education         37.48       32.23      5.25      S
To rehabilitate existing primary education infrastructure and     34.83       30.19      4.64      S
extend access
To strengthen management of the primary education system           7.88        7.58      0.30      S
                             Total                                80.19        70.0     10.19


Component 1: To Improve the Quality and Relevance of Primary Education
Cost: US$ 37.48 million
The project sought to (a) strengthen the capacity of the Education Publishing House (EPH) to
manage the development, printing and distribution of textbooks and provide access to textbooks
for all primary children; (b) provide simple teaching aids to all primary schools; (c) provide
teaching aids and other needed inputs to all primary teacher training schools; and (d) support
adoption of a uniform curriculum length for the primary level and the phased introduction of
multigrade teaching practices and bilingual education in schools catering to ethnic minority
children.

Component 2: To rehabilitate existing primary education infrastructure and extend access
Cost: US$ 34.83 million
The project intended to (a) repair dilapidated and dangerous classrooms; (b) construct a limited
number of new classrooms (to overcome problems associated with triple-shifting, incomplete
schools, and lack of access); and (c) provide water supply, latrines, and furniture. These
interventions were to be targeted in three phases: (i) five largest cities, (ii) eleven provinces of the
Mekong Delta, and (iii) eight mountainous provinces.

Component 3: To strengthen management of the primary education system




                                                 - 2 -

Cost: US$ 7.88 million
The project supported (a) software and hardware for developing an education management
information system (EMIS) and training local education officials in its use; (b) study tours and
fellowships for selected education managers to learn from counterparts overseas; (c) in-country
seminars to disseminate these experiences; (d) studies related to the rationalization and
development of the education system; (e) an education monitoring and evaluation system; (f)
establishment of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the Ministry of Education and
Training (MOET) to improve the implementation of education projects; and (g) preparation of
future education investment proposals.

3.4 Revised Components:
After a rather protracted period of low activity and poor progress towards the achievement of
development objectives between 1994 and 1997, the range and the scope of project activities
were reduced during the course of the Mid Term Review.

The project espoused an ambitious agenda that covered a wide range of issues, such as schooling
access expansion, educational quality inputs provision, curriculum reform, teacher capacity
building, school management training, language of instruction in vernacular languages, multigrade
education, information management systems development, student assessment and school
libraries. In addition, project activities took place in 36 different provinces. This situation,
compounded by the fact that the Primary Education Project (PEP) was the first World
Bank-financed project in Vietnam, obliged MOET to spread itself thin and imposed a significant
burden on its institutional capacity to implement the project. In light of these tremendous
demands, during the Mid Term Review it was decided that 5 experimental provinces would
receive more comprehensive concentrated support--for instance, principal training, multigrade
education, language of instruction, a textbook lending program targeting poor students,
assessment of student performance, and micro-planning and school mapping--while support to
other provinces would be circumscribed to classroom rehabilitation and a basic set of quality
inputs.


                         Components                              Mid Term Review total cost Ratings
                                                                         (US$ million)        at MTR
                                                                   Total     IDA      GOV
To improve the quality and relevance of primary education          22.36     17.79     4.57      S
To rehabilitate existing primary education infrastructure and      43.79     39.41     4.38      S
extend access
To strengthen management of the primary education system           7.49      7.08      0.41      S
Contingencies                                                      3.57      3.51      0.06
                             Total                                 77.21     67.79     9.42      S

Component 1: To improve the quality and relevance of primary education
Cost: US$ 22.36 million excluding contingencies
Support for textbooks was continued but was no longer channeled through EPH; instead,
textbooks were procured through provincial companies and their distribution systems. A
textbook lending scheme was designed on a pilot basis to increase access to learning materials for



                                                  - 3 -

poor children. Multigrade and bilingual education for ethnic minority children activities were
deemed to be too labor intensive and reliant on foreign technical assistance for proper
implementation. Hence, these activities were refocused towards (a) developing materials for
training primary teachers in multigrade teaching techniques; and (b) developing materials for
instruction in four minority languages (Cham, Hmong, Jarai and Bahnar). It was agreed that the
project would limit support for curriculum reform only in three subject areas (Civics, Mathematics
and Vietnamese language). Project innovations were concentrated in five "experimental"
provinces (see also Component 3 below).

Component 2: To rehabilitate existing primary education infrastructure and extend access
Cost: US$ 43.79 million excluding contingencies
The total number of primary classrooms to be renovated/constructed was reduced to take into
account increases in the unit costs of construction. The responsibility for the implementation of
the civil works program was decentralized from the MOET/PCU to provinces and their provincial
project coordination units (PPCUs). Savings from the printing of textbooks were reallocated to
support classroom construction, in particular to support emergency civil works programs to
replace primary classrooms destroyed in natural disasters.

Component 3: To strengthen management of the primary education system
Cost: US$ 7.49 million excluding contingencies

In order to simplify project implementation, activities that supported improvements in the
management and monitoring of primary education--education management information systems
and measurement of student performance--originally intended for nationwide implementation
were consolidated and carried out in five designated "experimental" provinces (Yen Bai, Hanoi,
Thanh Hoa, Quang Nam, Vinh Long).


3.5 Quality at Entry:

There was no CAS for Vietnam during the project preparation phase. The Bank and Vietnam had
not had an operational relationship prior to this project. The project built on and, to some extent,
deepened successful approaches to educational change implemented by other national and
international agencies in Vietnam. The project design evolved in the context of a major Human
Resources Sector Review (conducted by UNESCO and financed by UNDP), in which the Bank
participated as an "Associated Agency." The project objectives are consistent with Vietnam's
long term efforts to improve the education system and build a solid foundation at the primary
level. The Bank's objective in the education sector was twofold. First, to support Vietnam's
desire to achieve qualitative and quantitative improvements in its education system. Second, to
address issues of poverty through direct interventions designed to improve the quality of life of
the poor, and in particular for women and children. The project also had specific components
targeted to particularly vulnerable groups--in this case, ethnic minority children who live in
remote and disadvantaged areas.

In 1997, the World Bank Quality Assurance Group reviewed the Vietnam project portfolio,
including this project. With regard to the latter, the following observation was made on the
project design: "though the objectives of the project are well defined and relevant, the project is
too complex with multiple activities that are widely dispersed geographically. The project


                                                  - 4 -

addresses a decentralized social service (primary education, funded and administered by provincial
authorities) but the sector ministry then followed a centralized and bureaucratic approach to
project implementation. There was a mismatch between the two. The wide geographical
coverage, the centralization of implementation in a Project Coordination Unit in the MOET
resulted in difficulties on the ground given that primary education has been historically
decentralized to local authorities. Project implementation and achievement of its development
objectives could have been conducted in a more cost-effective manner if (i) the project design had
appropriately assessed the MOET's institutional capacity for implementation, especially since this
was the first Bank-financed project in Vietnam; (ii) the project has focused its inputs on a smaller
manageable number of provinces so that target schools could have been provided with more
comprehensive quality inputs and their impact better monitored; and (iii) the project has addressed
quality inputs more integratively, instead of as separate, independent programs." The project
design is rated marginally satisfactory.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The Project has been largely able to achieve most implementation and development objectives. In
spite of a slow start in project implementation during the first two years, most of the activities laid
out in the Staff Appraisal Report--and later modified during the Mid Term Review--were
accomplished. Following the restructuring of the project, the original targets were significantly
reduced in scope, but implementation improved with regards to depth and impact. The five
experimental provinces specifically have gained tremendously in terms of enhanced institutional
capacity and education management.

Vietnam has experienced a dramatic surge in student participation. The project interventions have
contributed to increase net enrollment from 86 per cent in 1993 to 95 per cent in 2002; to increase
completion rates from 75.8% in 1997 to 83% in 2002; and to reduce dropout rates and increase
participation rates of ethnic minority children in schools. Triple shift schools have been almost
eliminated throughout Vietnam (0.2% in 2002 from 10.5% in 1993). Despite a slow start, the
school construction program had a significant social impact. New classrooms have helped
Vietnam meet its goal to universalize primary education in the last 10 years.

With regards to education quality, schools and teacher training colleges have benefited from the
supply of learning materials and school libraries. A single curriculum is now the standard in
Vietnam, compared to three distinct curricula for primary education at the time of project design.
A remaining challenge is adequately preparing teachers to deliver this curriculum. Project
investments in the pilot provinces have made significant contributions to enhance pedagogical
practices and introduce innovations to improve teaching and learning--such as active learning,
multigrade classrooms and vernacular language instruction. The project could have benefited
from clearly laid out outcome indicators (in the Loan Agreement or the SAR) from the outstart to
monitor progress, but these were developed later on in the Mid Term Review.

Institutional capacity has been strengthened at all levels of the education system. Managers and
primary school principals gained new skills through management training and overseas study
visits. A school mapping exercise was introduced in four provinces where it was used as a
targeting tool to identify, prioritize and provide investments to needy schools. The national


                                                  - 5 -

assessment of grade 5 student achievement in Maths and Vietnamese helped the National Institute
of Educational Science acquire new techniques in the field of academic performance
measurement.

The assessment provides guidance to policy makers on ways to improve the quality of education
as well as a baseline against which the measures change.

In summary, the project contributed to the expansion of schooling access and dissemination of
educational quality inputs in a large geographical area. It has also supported poor children by
providing textbooks and teaching aids, multigrade teaching and bilingual education for ethnic
minorities. Given the modest size of the project compared with the overall primary education
needs of Vietnam, the degree of accomplishment is considered satisfactory.


4.2 Outputs by components:
COMPONENT 1: Improving quality and relevance (US$ 21.72 million actual)

This component was rated satisfactory. The project strongly supported the primary education
curiculum reform and provided much needed practical educational inputs that contributed to
enhance Government's efforts in improving primary education quality and relevance.

EPH capacity building and textbook production.         The institutional capacity of the Education
Publishing House has been improved through technical assistance, training, equipment, and
support for the publication and distribution of textbooks. Attractive user-friendly textbooks are
important inputs for more effective and efficient teaching and learning. However, while the
project succeeded in improving publishing quality, textbook writing only received limited
attention. The project devoted only 14 person-months in technical assistance to textbook content
concerns.

Textbook lending scheme: The textbook lending scheme (TLS) began in 1999 as a result of the
Mid Term Evaluation. It shifted the provision of support from the producer of textbooks (EPH)
to the beneficiaries (schools and students). The TLS was implemented in four provinces (Yen
Bai, Thanh Hoa, Quang Nam and Vinh Long) on a pilot basis. Its main purpose was to ensure
equity in the availability of textbooks for poor children. Needy students in Grades 1-5 received
textbooks on the basis of a socio-economic regional targeting index. In the poorest regions, all
students were eligible to receive school textbooks on loan during the academic year, while in
relatively more advantaged areas 10-25% of students received support from the TLS. The
lifespan of a textbook was about 3-3.5 year, in line with original estimates.

The supply of textbooks through the TLS underpins overall improvements in educational
attainment and student learning outcomes. It has helped to increase participation of children from
poor families and enhance their performance.

Teaching aids. The project procured and distributed teaching aids to all 15,000 primary schools in
61 provinces. In addition, during the school year 2002-03, about more than 400,000 students in
grade one from 2325 poorest communes were provided a Vietnamese Language and Mathematics
learning kit. Unfortunately, teachers did not receive proper training on how to best use
educational aids. Given wide variations in teacher educational background, the absence of such
training diluted the possible benefits from this investment.



                                                  - 6 -

Program for ethnic minority children in remote areas. The project sought to address the problems
in providing access to quality education to these communities by piloting multigrade and bilingual
education (Cham, Hmong, Jarai and Bahnar) classes. Teaching aids and textbooks were
especially developed for these programs. Teachers also received extensive training. The
proportion of satellite schools with full five grades increased from 16% in 1993 to 25.7% in 2002
in the project provinces.

The mother tongue as a medium of instruction program has been under implementation for just
three years. This program sought to prepare children to acquire Vietnamese language skills
gradually. Though the pilot program was carried out in only two pilot and two control classes in
one province, the preliminary findings from this experience are promising. A solid foundation has
been laid down for the use of vernacular languages for initial literacy acquisition. An independent
review deemed that children in experimental classrooms presented greater "enthusiasm for
learning" and "confidence." Teachers and parents held this program in high regard and mobilized
classroom resources and labor for school construction in its support. The provincial and district
education authorities expressed strong interest in continuing this program.

It is clear that both programs are at their infancy and greater investments in capacity building are
needed. Teachers and principals would benefit from more training and support to better cope
with complex tasks. These issues have been recognized and the Primary Education for
Disadvantaged Children project, that has been approved by the Board on May 2003, will continue
to provide support in these important areas.

Support for teacher training institutes. This program aimed to improve the capacity of teacher
training institutes to prepare teachers. Sixty one provincial teacher training institutes received
block grants to purchase pedagogical and research equipment. The project also provided cash
grants to 4,000 trainee teachers to participate in teaching practicums and produce research papers
on best practices. The impact of this activity has not been adequately evaluated during
implementation.

Pilot school libraries. The project supported the establishment of school libraries in 61 provinces
(for the most part, one school library per province). Project inputs consisted of a room, furniture
and books. Readings were well kept and students enjoyed the extra materials. It was originally
envisioned that the possibility of extending this pilot program to other schools would be explored.
Unfortunately, no follow up actions ensued and, as a result, the program was primarily a one-off
investment.

COMPONENT 2: Enhance student access to primary schools (US$ 46.22 million actual)

The results of this component may be described as a significant achievement of the project. The
civil works program successfully advanced decentralized procedures for school building.
Provincial and district education authorities were assigned responsibility for developing and
implementing their own facilities program. This in turn led to a greater sense of ownership.

The project was a driving force behind the introduction of competitive bidding in school
construction never experienced before in Vietnam. The civil works program helped to strengthen
capacity in 35 provinces for managing a complete cycle of school construction (site selection,
school design, bid invitation, bid evaluation, bid award, monitoring and supervision). The project
introduced a simplified design and bidding process leading to a reduction in the duration of the


                                                  - 7 -

construction cycle from 18 months to 6 months during the life of the project.

Regular programs. The original project plan was to repair or replace 10,372 classrooms
(including sanitation and water points) and to furnish each room with a complete set of school
furniture. Approximately 60% of new classrooms would be constructed and 40% would be
repaired. In practice, the total number of classrooms covered was 7,000, but almost (about 93%)
consisted of new classrooms. Overall, this is a significant reduction from original project
estimates. The targets in the SAR were over-ambitious and, by the time implementation had
commenced, unit costs of construction had risen by about 35%. Moreover, cost estimates were
for single storey buildings but the Government then adopted a different two-level building design
to allow communities use school buildings as a safe point during disaster periods. The cost of
two-level school buildings were almost twice as high as the original cost estimates. The project
was able to reach approximately 70% of the original target number of classrooms nonetheless.

The vast majority of civil works took place in poor and remote areas, creating a much improved
learning environment for both students and teachers. The provision of new schools improved
social perceptions about the value of education and brought increased vitality to both teaching and
learning in schools .

Micro-planning and school mapping. As part of the Mid Term Review, it was agreed that a
school mapping exercise would become a prerequisite for school construction in five pilot
provinces. Provincial authorities confirmed that school mapping was an effective tool for
targeting investments to the most disadvantaged schools. A total of 468 classrooms were built
following provincial school mapping exercises. School mapping has contributed substantially to
improving the efficiency of investments and the planning capacity in participating provinces.

Natural disaster relief programs. As a result of extensive property damage to primary schools
from natural disasters, the Government of Vietnam requested that the World Bank assist 986
classrooms in areas affected by (i) storm Lynda in the Mekong Delta in 1997; (ii) flooding in the
Central provinces in 1999; and (iii) another flooding in the Mekong Delta in 2000. The project
responded timely to these urgencies and the two-storey school building design saved many lives
during these floods.

COMPONENT 3: Strengthen the Management of Primary Education in Vietnam (US$
9.06 million actual)
This component is rated satisfactory. Considerable achievements have been made in the
institutional capacity at the central, provincial, district and school levels, especially in the five
experimental provinces where there was a concentration of technical assistance and resource
mobilization. For example, the micro-planning/school mapping exercise and the principal training
activities helped decision makers at the provincial and school level to better prioritize investments
to the neediest schools taking demographic and socioeconomic factors and forecasts into account.

Education management information system (EMIS). The project financed approximately US$ 1.8
million in computer and communication equipment to establish an EMIS. In spite of these
investments, the EMIS is to a large extent inoperative. In the first place, there is poor demand for
information. Second, technical capacity to manage and effectively use an EMIS is weak. Third,
the financial data collection protocols were too complex.

Study tours and in-country seminars: About 850 education managers and teachers participated in


                                                   - 8 -

overseas study tours to learn about alternative primary education management systems. In
addition, approximately 2,000 principals in five experimental provinces participated in a two-week
training program designed to update their school administration skills. This program was
positively rated by provincial and district officers as a significant contribution to improved
school-based management. However, given the limited scope of a one-time short training course
and its ability to bring about lasting changes in practice, it would be beneficial if future training
investments are linked to longer term interventions to support that would reinforce the
implementation of newly acquired skills.

Education evaluation system/Measurement of student performance: The Monitoring and
Assessment Unit of the National Institute of Educational Science (NIES) administered three
rounds of student achievement tests in five experimental provinces. These exercises proved most
valuable in raising the technical capacity of NIES to measure educational quality through a
standardized test and paved the way for a nationwide assessment of grade five students with a
provincially representative sample. This was an activity beyond the original objectives of the
project. The national study compiled a rich database for the analysis of student achievement in
reading and numeracy, teacher performance and the conditions that contribute to academic
success. Moreover, it will serve as a baseline to monitor advances in educational quality. The
MOET has expressed interest in institutionalizing this testing experience into a national
assessment system. A challenge that remains ahead is to find ways to feed student performance
information to lower levels of government in order to use academic achievement data to foster
change at the school and classroom levels.

Studies related to the rationalization and development of the education system. Three major
initiatives were undertaken: (a) a curriculum development support program that culminated in the
phased introduction of the unified national primary education curriculum in school year
2002/2003; (b) a study for the reform of the current training system of primary school teachers;
and (c) a study of policies and regulations governing recruitment and remuneration of primary
school teachers. These two latter studies served to develop and inform the current Primary
Teacher Development Project financed by DfID and the World Bank.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project made sound contributions to institutional development at all governance levels, but
perhaps most saliently in provincial and district administrations. It nurtured "true
decentralization" by assigning responsibility and strengthening local capacity in provincial and
district education authorities for planning and implementation of project activities. In particular,
project investments strengthened school construction and bidding processes, micro-planning and
school-mapping, poverty-driven resource targeting and service delivery (through schemes such as
textbook lending, bilingual instruction and multigrade teaching) and student achievement
monitoring.




                                                  - 9 -

The project was the first Credit supported by a multilateral agency in Vietnam. Understandably,
Government had little familiarity with World Bank procedures. International Competitive
Bidding, for example, was a new concept. Procurement practice had little or no competitive
dimension. PEP was instrumental in helping to build local capacity in project management,
competitive procurement and implementation.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Many project activities (school mapping and school construction, textbooks and teaching aids
distribution, multigrade teaching) were implemented in remote and difficult areas, this sometimes
led to slow implementation because of unexpected problems such as bad weather for school
construction and transportation, etc.

School construction activities were revisited to respond to flooding and storms in the Mekong
Delta and Hue. Project funds were reallocated for school rehabilitation and re-construction that
stemmed from this emergency situation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
At the start of the project, Vietnam had just began the transition from a command to a
market-based economy. Especially in the early stages, project implementation was impacted by
stringent and highly-regulated Government procedures, particularly in procurement and financial
management matters. This was most evident, for instance, in civil works activities. Through the
course of the project, the implementation team, with support from the World Bank supervision
team, worked closely with Government counterparts to simplify procedures and devolve
decision-making authority to lower governance levels. As a result, the construction cycle was
shortened from 18 to 6 months.

Overall, counterpart funds has never been a problem for the whole project life and that it made the
implementation much easy.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Initially, key PCU staff were working on the project on a part-time basis. As implementation
personnel had to respond to other commitments, project progress was adversely affected,
especially during the first two years. This situation was reversed upon the recommendation of the
World Bank supervision team. Had the PCU been more proactively involved and monitored
project implementation more closely from the outset, problems in some locations with low quality
construction work and sanitation facilities could have been prevented.

Generally, project implementation received consistent support and cooperation from other
Government line ministries and agencies. Greater participation and involvement of stakeholders
at the community level could have been helpful for project implementation in its early stages.

5.4 Costs and financing:
A total of SDR 49,362,613 (99.5%) was disbursed at project closure. However, due to currency
fluctuations, the total USD disbursed was about USD 67.2 million equivalent, or 96% of the
estimated USD amount at appraisal.

The first identification mission was in 1990 and the project became effective in 1994. There was


                                                     - 10 -

no change in the price contingencies set in the early phase of design and as a result, in a fast
changing economy with fluctuating inflation, there were considerable mismatches by effectiveness.


Disbursements were slow during the first two years of project implementation. Delays were
primarily due to low implementation capacity and low PCU staffing levels. The Vietnamese dong
depreciated against the US dollar by more than 50 per cent over the life of the project (from VND
10,700 to VND 15,450 for one US dollar). However, since most of the expenditures - such as
textbooks, teaching aids, etc.- made locally using VND, there was a reduction in IDA financing
and more on the Government financing, which was not expected, because International
Competitive Bidding were planned for these items, and at the end, all contracts were won by local
suppliers.

Competitive bidding processes for textbooks and teaching aids resulted in substantial savings,
later applied to finance the emergency civil works programs in 1997, 1999 and 2000.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of project investments is rated as likely. In the first place, there has been a
notable improvement in the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Education to plan, execute
and supervise civil works as well as to produce and distribute textbooks.

The decision at the Mid Term Review to emphasize building replacement rather than rehabilitation
is expected to contribute to a more cost-efficient investment, reducing maintenance and upkeep
costs. Project investments in school infrastructure have on occasion catalyzed additional
community financial and in-kind contributions to boost and preserve civil works.

The phased introduction of "Curriculum 2000" will bring about a dramatic change in the
organization of the academic program in Vietnam in the years to come. There is a need to
accompany the curriculum reform initiative with related institutional capacity building
interventions, such as teacher training and education management enhancement, in order to
achieve a lasting transformation in teaching and learning practices and outcomes. The findings
from the national student achievement in Mathematics and Vietnamese language--a project
innovation that MOET has expressed commitment in taking on in the future--will furnish valuable
information to identify areas for priority action and support.

The pilot textbook learning scheme has proven to be a sound and cost-effective demonstration
model. About one third of students in the experimental provinces have been able to benefit from
it, ensuring access to educational materials while reducing the direct costs to education for poor
families. Textbooks have an approximate 3-year lifetime, leading to significant increases in the
overall textbook supply available to schools while at the same time reducing costs. MOET is
committed to progressively expanding the program in the future.

The materials developed for capacity building activities for multigrade teachers and principals will
continue to be utilized as part of regular Ministry training programs, not only in the experimental
provinces but also elsewhere in the country. This is the case too for curriculum materials and
textbooks in ethnic minority languages developed with project support. Pilot provinces have
expressed the intention to expand training programs in ethnic minority languages to all teachers,



                                                - 11 -

so as to raise awareness and communication skill levels among educators who work with
non-Vietnamese speaking children.

With respect to bilingual education, MOET has primarily espoused a policy of providing limited
instruction on local languages as a subject area. But PEP's small experimental program on
vernacular language instruction has also been positively recognized by provincial leaders. This
vernacular language of instruction program has been under implementation for three years in
Grades 1-3. In the future, pilot schools will continue to champion it, inclusive of the upper
grades, using materials already developed under project sponsorship. Provincial leaders are
looking for guidance from the national government with regards to the future and perhaps
possible expansion of vernacular language instruction activities.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Primary Education Project has nurtured seeds of change within MOET. Its initial innovations
with regard to multigrade teaching and principal professional development have been picked up by
the Primary Teacher Development Project and expanded into a comprehensive program in ten
provinces that defines expected teacher competency levels and builds capacity towards their
achievement. A new national assessment cycle is expected to be financed from this project as
well.

In addition, the newly approved Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children Project (PEDC)
has picked up on several of the interventions tested out by the Primary Education Project. PEDC
embeds many aspects of policy and practice begun under this project in Government policy and
within the broader donors community (there are four cofinanciers in the PEDC project). The
PEDC will formalize many of these pilot activities into a coherent and comprehensive package
that delimits a basic set of requirements--know as Fundamental School Quality Level--essential
to achieve minimum service standards. Participating school districts will receive computer
equipment and technical assistance to put into place an information system to plan for and
monitor local education conditions. In light of this data collection exercise, PEDC will continue
to rehabilitate and construct school facilities, primarily focusing on the neediest school satellite
campuses. The project will carry on supporting multigrade teacher training activities and textbook
for all children. Moreover, PEDC will build on bilingual education needs in ethnic minority areas,
through the provision of pre-primary Vietnamese language preparedness programs and the
development of teacher professional development modules.

Overall, the development objectives espoused in PEP will continue to be reflected and guide
Government policy in its pursuit for Education for All and enhancing educational quality. The
Government of Vietnam has made education one of its most important national priorities. The
education sector budget has increased from 14% in 1992 to 17% in 2002. In its Comprehensive
Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy (CPRGS), the Government articulates its commitment to
establishing national targeted programs to benefit disadvantaged groups and vulnerable people to
widen their access to basic social services.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Sector work during the project design phase provided a thorough analysis of the main challenges


                                                  - 12 -

afflicting primary education in Vietnam, including the identification of social and cultural issues
related to the provision of quality education for ethnic minority groups. In light of this
assessment, the Bank team prepared a comprehensive set of interventions that adequately
responded to those needs. In retrospect, it would have been beneficial if the number and scope of
interventions would have been further prioritized at the start to deepen their impact,
complementarities across components promoted and sustained capacity building efforts for
improving school practices supported. In addition to a complex project design, the assessment of
MOET institutional capacity to implement the credit was overly optimistic, especially since PEP
was the first World Bank-funded project in the country.

Project preparation took approximately three years. Moreover, the project design process took
place at a time of economic and social transformation in Vietnam, at project effectiveness, some
of the costing and statistics were already outdated, a new budget law had been passed with
regards to the administration of overseas development assistance, the Primary Education
Department was created and EPH had been transformed into a State Owned Enterprise. These
changes were not incorporated into the project design or implementation mechanisms. Bank
performance at lending is rated as marginally satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
Project monitoring provided a basis for constructive recommendations and which strengthened
the implementing agency's management capacity. Bank supervision missions were frequent,
focused and diligent in identifying and resolving educational as well as financial and procurement
issues. Field visits at the school and commune levels facilitated project implementation, discussed
project impact with beneficiaries, and check the quality of works and services.

The restructuring of the project scope and coverage conducted during the Mid Term Review not
only made the project more manageable and feasible, but also allowed to deepen impact of project
interventions and to find synergies across project components. Bank performance at supervision
is rated as satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
With the benefit of hindsight, many of the targets agreed to in the DCA and SAR were
over-ambitious. In addition, given the size of the country and its division into 61 provinces and
approximately 600 districts, the project aimed to implement too many activities on a nationwide
basis. However, this problem was recognized and rectified during the course of the Mid Term
Review.

Through October 2002, there were 21 World Bank supervision missions. The Bank team
provided sound advice, practical guidance and suggestions for implementation enhancement. The
project also benefited considerably from staff continuity. There were only three task managers
during 9 years. Finally, the expansion of the World Bank office in Hanoi was an asset to project
implementation. Communication and decision-making was streamlined, saving time and
deepening understanding of prevailing problems. Overall Bank performance is rated as
satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Ministry of Education assigned a national team comprised of high ranking decision makers



                                                - 13 -

and specialists in the field for project preparation. A Project Steering Committee (PSC), including
members from other line ministries, was set up to assist the design and development of the
project. Bank missions recognized Government's full engagement and participation during
project preparation from central to provincial, district and school levels as well as from other
ministry's institutions. Borrower performance at preparation is rated as satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
With the introduction of the "doi moi" or openness policy many established government
procedures came under critical review. MOET worked with other government agencies, via the
Project Steering Committee, to appraise and improve government processes to simplify project
implementation. For example, implementation approval steps and disbursement procedures were
substantially abridged during the life of the project. These changes, however, oftentimes took
considerable time to evolve. Staff turnover and reorganization in related ministries, such as the
Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Planning and Investment, sometimes bring about lengthy
delays in decision making and approval, significantly hindering project progress.

The borrower, both at central and local government level, met its commitment to provide
counterpart funds to complete all project-supported activities. Borrower performance during
implementation is rated as satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Staffing of the PCU proved difficult during the early years of project implementation.
Well-qualified Vietnamese officers were reluctant to give up their permanent Government
positions to work on a project of limited duration. This problem was solved by agreeing that
project funds could be used to retain national consultants to work on the project.

Continuity in project staff throughout implementation permitted progressive capacity building and
on-the-job training. At project's end, PCU personnel had gained critical knowledge and in-depth
understanding of administration, management, procurement, accounting and financial procedures
so as to act proactively. Project monitoring, however, could have been stronger.

The PCU used domestic consultants to promptly provide technical assistance and good guidance
to PPCUs to support implementation when needed. This was especially the case for pilot activities
in the five experimental provinces: (i) textbook lending scheme; (ii) micro-planning and school
mapping; (iii) school principal training, multigrade and bilingual education; and (iv) supervision of
school construction.

A very significant effort was required by PCU staff to introduce World Bank procurement
procedures at the provincial and district levels, as in some instances Bank guidelines were directly
contrary to government practices.

All audit reports were completed and submitted on time. All legal covenants were complied. No
critical issues were found on procurement or financial management matters. Implementing agency
performance is rated as satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. The MOET showed strong project
ownership and line agencies provided their full cooperation and participation throughout project
implementation. Though implementation was slow at the beginning, with assistance from the Bank


                                                  - 14 -

and strong support from the Government, the MOET significantly improved performance. The
redefined project objectives at the Mid Term Review were achieved, and in some cases even
surpassed initial expectations.

8. Lessons Learned

The project provides some lessons for future quality improvement investments:

Establish priorities for action. Although project objectives were well defined and the major
challenges faced by the education system properly diagnosed, the original project design
attempted to conduct too many activities. In addition, the project sought to move immediately
into nationwide implementation without testing procedures or delivery mechanisms. As a result,
the project was too complex and demanding for proper implementation, bringing it virtually to a
standstill. By sharpening its focus and limiting its scope, the project was restructured to operate
instead as a successful demonstration model for pilot interventions that strove to enhance the
quality of education service delivery and the efficiency of the education system.

Conduct a realistic assessment of implementation capacity. A project cannot move faster than
its implementers. In order for changes in education management and service delivery to take root,
it is critical to take into account the institutional constraints and capacity building requirements
needed to ensure the feasibility of implementation. Understanding and ownership of novel project
interventions, gradual phasing, sustained technical support and learning-by-doing are key
ingredients to bring about sustainable changes in behavior and performance.

Adopt a holistic approach to education quality improvement. Pedagogical and language needs
of ethnic minority children and remote area communities have to be addressed comprehensively
and strategically. First, vernacular language instruction can build confidence and provide an
adequate medium to build early literacy readiness in Vietnamese language. Secondly, teachers
must be properly trained to be effective in these instructional settings. Familiarity of multigrade
teaching skills and bilingual education are two critical skills. Finally, the isolation of teachers in
remote area communities can be counteracted by fostering peer discussion and support networks.

Focus on educational outcomes, not only inputs. Although educational inputs are necessary
elements to improve educational quality, a key concern for educational development is to measure
their impact on student learning. A strong monitoring and evaluation plan must focus on
development outcomes such as assessment of learning achievement, rather than simply measure
investment inputs.

Integrate project implementation into sectoral activities. Ministry line departments and agencies
must own and implement project technical interventions. PCU can play an important coordination
role, focusing on specific procedural processes (procurement, disbursement, financial and contract
management, etc). Integration of project technical activities into sectoral programs is essential to
ensure sustainability of project outcomes.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
This is an extract from the Implementation Completion Report prepared by MOET. The full
report is available in the project files.



                                                   - 15 -

Most of the project activities were accomplished satisfactory. The project inputs greatly improved
school conditions and teaching quality, especially in remote areas. This has played an important
role in accelerating the universalization of primary education in Vietnam. Despite the delays, the
project was implemented smoothly and the overall quality of implementation was good. Project
investments in new classrooms, furniture, textbooks and teaching aids had very positive impacts
on enrolment, drop-out and repetition rates. All project targets were met (except a small part of
EMIS) and some exceeded. Project support underpinned the development of the new primary
education curricula and nationwide assessment of student performance of Grade 5 in Reading
Vietnamese and Mathematics. These are two major steps forward in Vietnam's educational
development. The project achieved its original major objectives i.e. (i) the project has improved
the quality and relevance of primary education; (ii) the project has extended access of primary
education by constructed approx # 7,000 fully furnished classrooms, provided teaching aids and
textbooks; and (iii) the project has helped to strengthen the management of primary education at
all levels. Finally, being the first large-scale project supported by the Bank in Vietnam, through
project implementation, many important lessons have been learned. If taken on board these
lessons should be of great value to planners and decision makers in education sector.

(b) Cofinanciers:
 Not Applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
 Not Applicable

10. Additional Information




                                                   - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Primary school net enrollment rate            In SY 1993-1994:                              In SY 2001-02:
                                              1. National: 86%                              1. National: 95%
                                              2. In non-project provinces: 95%              2.In non-project provinces: 95%
                                              3. In project provinces: 87%                  3. In project provinces: 95%
                                              4. In the five experimental provinces:        4. In the five experimental provinces:
                                              Yen bai: 85%                                  Yen Bai: 95.4%
                                              Hanoi: 98%                                    Hanoi:    99.9%
                                              Thanh Hoa: 94%                                Thanh Hoa: 98.4%
                                              Quang Nam: 95%                                Quang Nam: 97.3%
                                              Vinh Long: 80%                                Vinh Long: 99.6%



Primary school completion rate                In SY 1993-1994:                              In SY 2001-2002:
                                              1. National: 54%                              1. National: 82.8%
                                              2. In non-project provinces: 63%              2. In project provinces: 76.1%
                                              3. In project provinces: 50%                  3. In the five experimental provinces:
                                              4. In the five experimental provinces         Yen Bai:72%
                                              Yen Bai: 50%                                  Hanoi: 98%
                                              Hanoi: 96%,                                   Thanh Hoa: 82%
                                              Thanh Hoa: 48%                                Quang Nam: 85%
                                              Quang Nam: 65%,                               Vinh Long: 87%
                                              Vinh Long: 40%



Proportion of satellite schools with full 5   In SY 93- 94:                                 In SY 01-02:
grades in the five experimental provinces     In the project provinces: 16%                 In the project provinces: 25%
                                              Yen Bai: 10%                                  Yen Bai: 25%
                                              Hanoi: 12%                                    Hanoi: 10%
                                              Thanh Hoa: 22%                                Thanh Hoa: 26%
                                              Quang Nam:19%                                 Quang Nam: 15%
                                              Vinh Long : 27%                               Vinh Long: 52%



Triple shift classes in the five experimental In SY 95-96:                                  In SY 00-01:
provinces                                     Yen Bai N/A                                   Yen Bai: 0
                                              Hanoi 4                                       Hanoi: 0
                                              Thanh Hoa : 210                               Thanh Hoa: 0
                                              Quang Nam : 77                                Quang Nam:0
                                              Vinh Long : 54                                Vinh Long: 0


Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Component 1.

Strengthen the capacity of MoETand EPH in Textbook Lending scheme: Implement a pilot All targeted students in participating schools
textbook development and printing.            program to support disadvantaged students. in the experimental provinces received
Implementation of Textbook Lending scheme 100% students in the poorest schools to           textbook support from the TLS scheme.
in five pilot provinces, i.e Yen Bai, Hanoi,  receive textbooks on Vietnamese language      Additional programs to support poor students
Thanh Hoa, Qwuang Nam and Vinh Long.          and Maths, while in more advantaged areas     were added. Textbooks were supplied to
                                              10-25% students will receive support from     grade 1 students in approx. 2,300 communes
                                              the scheme.                                   across #52 provinces.


Teaching Aids made available to all primary   Each school should receive a set of teaching Every school in Vietnam was supplied with a
schools.                                      aids by Jan 1st 1999. Delivery of 15,000 sets complete set of simple teaching aids. The
                                              to 15,000 primary schools in the whole        project supplied (in school year 02) approx.
                                              country.                                      125,000 sets of learning kits for Maths and
                                                                                            Vietnamese to grade one students in the
                                                                                            poorest areas.




                                                                 - 17 -

Teacher Training Colleges supplied with          75% of project-supported trainees observed      Each provincial Teacher Training Institute
equipment and teacher practicum funding          classrooms and practised teaching during        was provided with office equipment.
                                                 the second year of their training. Funds
                                                 provided for 4,000 trainees in 73 Teacher       A total of approximately 4,000 second year
                                                 Training Institutes to produce analytical       trainee teachers were given cash grants to
                                                 reports.                                        enable them to participate in teacher training
                                                                                                 practicums.


Revised curriculum and pedagogical               All multigrade classes in the five experimental 250 teachers and 50 educators received
materials designed for ethnic minority           provinces received bilingual and multigrade     training in bilingual education instruction.
education in experimental provinces              teaching materials and staffed by teachers      Bilingual education was introduced in 8
                                                 adequately trained. Materials supplied to 100 mountainous provinces. The project
                                                 schools in 8 provinces.                         introduced multigrade teaching practices in
                                                                                                 eight mountainous provinces.


Pilot mother tongue as medium of instruction Pilot in 2 schools in one province.                 Textbooks were revised and translated into
in two schools in one province                                                                   Jrai language. 15 teachers and education
                                                                                                 managers in the province were trained every
                                                                                                 year. Pilot program has been implemented
                                                                                                 for 3 academic years with about 210 students
                                                                                                 participating. The activity was evaluated as
                                                                                                 satisfactory by an independent international
                                                                                                 consultant.
Component 2.

Access to adequate primary education             Estimated 10,000 classrooms to be               7,000 primary classrooms built or renovated
facilities in targeted areas (36 provinces)      constructed or replaced in 36 project           with sanitary facilities and water points. 1106
                                                 provinces.                                      classrooms built to support storm/flood
                                                                                                 damaged areas in Mekong Delta and Hue.


Primary network rationalization planning and     Experimental Classrooms to be constructed       School maps were finalized in all
improved management in the five                  in pilot provinces using school mapping as a experimental provinces. 468 new classrooms
experimental provinces                           tool for investment targeting.                  were built under this program.


Component 3.

Education Management Information System          nitial survey completed in the five             Equipment procured and distributed to
(EMIS)                                           experimental provinces by 1999.                 District and Provincial Education Offices.
                                                                                                 Total investment in equipment was
                                                                                                 approximately US$ 1.8 million.

Training primary school principals in five pilot Training materials developed in 2000 and        Hold 44 in-country training workshops for a
provinces                                        revised in 2001.                                total of 1,750 primary school principals in
                                                                                                 experimental provinces. School Management
                                                                                                 Operations Manual prepared. Training
                                                                                                 modules developed and used for training.

                                                                                                 Assessment activities were conducted over
National assessment program established in Performance monitoring excercise for                  three phases. NIES produced three reports
the five experimental provinces                  Grades 3 & 5 in Vietnamese and Maths.           and one overarching report about student
                                                 Performance monitoring used as an indicator achievement in the experimental provinces.
                                                 for the improvement of teaching and learning
                                                 processes and curriculum development.

                                                 National sample assessment of student           Final Report finalized and ready for
Nationwide assessment exercise in Grade 5        performance conducted in 2001.                  publication.
in Maths and Vietnamese

                                                 The pilot for teaching the new curriculum       The unified curriculum was approved by
Support in curriculum development and            started in school year 99-00.                   Government and implementation started in
reform                                                                                           2002.

                                                                                                 Activities completed in 2000 and used as
Support and analysis and design studies for                                                      background for the Primary Teacher
future investment                                                                                Development project and PEDC.




                                                                    - 18 -

                                          Computers and office equipment purchased   Additional IT facilities purchased to support
Strengthen the capacity of PCU and MoET   to support MoET implementation. Staff      MOET's Center of Education Information.
for implementing and managing the project received training in financial management
                                          and procurement.

1End of project
These indicators were developed at the Mid Term Review. The indicators in the second column were taken
from the first report provided by the government after the MTR.




                                                             - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
Improve Quality and Relevance                               37.48           21.71           57.9
Rehabilitate Infrastructure and Extend Access               34.83           46.22          132.7
Improve Management                                           7.88            9.06            115

Total Baseline Cost                                         80.19           76.99
                          Total Project Costs               80.19           76.99
                   Total Financing Required                 80.19           76.99




Project Costs by Procurement Arragements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equipvalent)
   Expenditure Category                           Procurement Method  1                 Total cost
                                     ICB            NCB        Other 2        N.B.F
1. Works                             0.00           3.00        25.10          0.00        28.10
                                    (0.00)         (2.50)      (21.60)        (0.00)      (24.10)
2. Consultant's services,            0.00           0.00          7.50         0.00         7.50
studies and training                (0.00)         (0.00)       (7.50)        (0.00)       (7.50)
3. School Furniture                  0.00           0.50          5.50         0.00         6.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.50)       (5.00)        (0.00)       (5.50)
4. Goods other than school           8.10           0.00          1.40         0.00        9.50
furniture                           (7.20)         (0.00)       (1.20)        (0.00)       (8.40)
5. Textbook printing and             26.20          0.00          2.90         0.00        29.10
shipping                            (22.10)        (0.00)       (2.40)        (0.00)      (24.50)
   Total                             34.30          3.50        42.40          0.00        80.20
                                    (29.30)        (3.00)      (37.70)        (0.00)      (70.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimaye) (US$million
equivalent)
    Expenditure Category                         Procurement Method  1               Total cost
                                     ICB          NCB        Other 2       N.B.F
1. Works                             0.00         3.73        38.26        0.00        41.99
                                    (0.00)        (3.29)      (33.69)      (0.00)     (36.98)
2. School furniture                  0.00         0.42         3.81        0.00        4.23
                                    (0.00)        (0.37)      (3.42)       (0.00)     (3.79)
3. Goods other than school           5.54         0.40         1.56        0.00        7.50
furniture                           (5.54)        (0.33)      (1.29)       (0.00)     (7.16)
4. Textbook printing and             13.04        0.00         2.86        0.00       15.40
shipping                            (9.77)        (0.00)      (2.13)       (0.00)     (11.90)
5. Consultants' services,            0.00         0.00         7.37        0.00        7.37
studies and training                (0.00)        (0.00)      (7.37)       (0.00)     (7.37)



                                                - 20 -

       Total                          18.58           4.55         53.86          0.00         76.99
                                    (15.31)          (3.99)      (47.90)          (0.00)       (67.20)

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                        Percentage of Appraisal
      Component                 Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                            Bank      Govt.       CoF.     Bank      Govt.       CoF.    Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Improve Quality and         32.23     5.25                 17.59      4.12               54.6    78.5
Relevance
Rehabilitate Infrastructure 30.17     4.69                 40.77      5.45               135.1  116.2
and Extend Access
Improve Management          7.58      0.30                 8.84       0.22               116.6   73.3
Total                       70.00     10.19                67.20      9.79               96.0    96.1




                                                   - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Identification
              May-June 1990


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/03/1991              10     MISSION LEADER (1),
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1) SYSTEM
                                             ANALYST (1) TEXTBOOK
                                             CONSULTANT (2)
                                             EDUCATION PROGRAM
                                             OFFICER-UNICEF (1)
                                             REGIONAL DIRECTOR
                                             FOR SOUTHEAST ASIA,
                                             WORLD VISION (1)
                                             EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST(1)
                                             ARCHITECT
                                             CONSULTANT(1)
                                             HR ECONOMIST (1)
              Post-Appraisal            7    Sr. OPERATION OFFICER (1);
              04/29/1992                     PRINCIPAL EDUCATION
                                             PLANNER (1); Sr. ARCHITECT
                                             (1); MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST(1); TEXTBOOK
                                             PRODUCTION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); UNICEF (1); WORLD
                                             VISION (1).
              Negotiation
              10/04/1993

 Supervision
              01/15/1994                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              04/24/1994                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             ARCHITECT (1)
              06/20/1994                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             ARCHITECT (1); TEXTBOOK
                                             SPECIALIST (CONSUL) (1);
                                             ANTHROPOLOGIST (1)
              10/14/1994                5    ARCHITECT (1); ARCHITECT         HS              S
                                             (CONSULTANT) (1);
                                             TEXTBOOK SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROJECT MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             INFORMATION



                                              - 23 -

                TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST
                (1)
04/18/1995    5 MISSION LEADER (1);         S    S
                ETHNIC MINORITY
                SPECIALIST (1); ARCHITECT
                (CONSULTANT) (1);
                TEXTBOOK SPEC (CONSUL)
                (1); PROJECT MANAGEMENT
                SPECIALIST (1)
07/13/1995    3 MISSION LEADER (1);         S    S
                ARCHITECT (CONSULTANT)
                (1); TEXTBOOK SPEC
                (CONSUL) (1)
09/30/1995    4 EDUCATION CONSULTANT        S    S
                (1); MISSION LEADER (1);
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                Sr. PROGRAM
                MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                (1)
03/30/1996    3 SR. EDUCATION SPECIALIST    S    S
                (1); ARCHITECT (1);
                TEXTBOOK SPECIALIST
                (CONS.) (1)
10/12/1996    5 Sr. EDUCATION SPECIALIST    S    U
                (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                (2); Sr. OPERATIONS
                OFFICER (1); TEXTBOOK
                CONSULTANT (1)
07/05/1997    3 OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);     U    U
                Sr.. GENERAL EDUCATOR
                (1); EDUCATION
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
04/11/1998    4 Sr.GENERAL EDUCATOR (1);    S    S
                EDUCATOR (1); EDUCATION
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                EDUCATION PLANNER (1)
07/04/1998    4 Sr. HUMAN RESOURCE          S    S
                SPECIALIST (1); EDUCATOR
                (1); EDUCATION PLANNER
                (1); TEXTBOOK
                DISTRIBUTION SPECIALIST
                (1)
02/05/1999    6 Sr. HUMAN RESOURCE          S    S
                SPECIALIAST (1);
                EDUCATOR (1); EDUCATION
                PLANNER (1); TEXTBOOK
                DIST. SPEC. (1);
                IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
06/12/1999    3 SR. HD SPECIALIST (1);      S    S
                EDUCATORS (1); OPERATION
                OFFICER (1)
10/05/1999    4 PRININCIPAL EDUCATION       S    S



                - 24 -

                                            SPECIALIST (1); OPERATION
                                            ANALYST (1); OPERATION
                                            OFFICER (1); TASK
                                            ASSISTANT (1)
               03/15/2000              3    OPERATION ANALYSIS (1);           S    S
                                            TASK ASSISTANT (1);
                                            EDUCATION OFFICER (1)
               09/23/2000              3    EDUCATION OFFICER (1);            S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); PROCUREMENT
                                            ANALYSIS (1)
               09/23/2001              4    OPERATION OFFICER (1);            S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                            (1); FINANCIAL OFFICER (1);
                                            TASK ASSISTANT (1)
               04/26/2002              2    EDUCATION OFFICER (1);            S    S
                                            FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR
               11/18/2002             5     OPERATION OFFICER (1)             S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT &
                                            DISBURSEMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
                                            EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                            (2)
                                            TASK ASSISTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation         about 5           LEN.         567,329
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    17
  Supervision                              69          SPN.         998,156
  ICR                                       5
  Total                                    96            Total    1,574,485




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU
Note that the Bank's performance at lending is rated as marginally satisfactory in the text. There is no such
indication available in this annex.

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 27 -

 Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. Government's summary ICR
 2. Consultant's assessment report on Textbooks Lending Scheme

 3. Consultant's report on Micro-planning and School mapping

 4. International Panel on Primary Education Curriculum Review

 5. Consultant's report on Mother tongue teaching as a medium of instruction

 6. Reports on assessment of student performance (phase 1-3)

 7. Report of National Sample Assessment of Grade Five Student's performance in Reading and
    maths

 8. Various Project Status Report. World Bank 1994-2002

 9. Various Project missions' TORs and Aid-Memoires from 1994-2002,

10. Aid-Memoire of ICR mission.




                                             - 28 -

- 29 -

