CIA
DOCUMEN4TS
CREDIT NUMBER 2t 8 VN
Development Credit Agreement
(Primary Education Project)
between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated      mll-ew           , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER A 64 g VN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             [W 4GL Iv  , 1993, between SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General  Conditions   Applicable  to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "MOET" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education and
Training, and any successor thereto;
(b)   "EPH" means the Education Publishing House established
under MOET responsible, inter alia, for the management of the
development, printing and distribution of textbooks and learning
materials, and any successor thereto;
(c)   "Project Coordination Unit" means the unit established
withir MOET responsible for the overall coordination of the Project;
(d)   "Project Provinces" means the provinces listed in Annex
1 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(e)   "Urban Areas" means the Municipalities of Hanoi, Ho Chi
Minh, Haiphong, Hue and Danang;


﻿-2-
(f)   "Rural Areas" means the Project Provinces other than the
Urban Areas;
(g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(h)   "State Bank of Viet Nam" means the central bank of the
Borrower, and any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty nine million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 49,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a bank and
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of
June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.


﻿-3-
(b)  The commitment charge shall accrue:
(i)    from the date sixty days after the date of this
Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled;
and
(ii)   at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from
the next payment date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)  The commitment charge shall be paid:
(i)    at such places as the Association shall reason-
ably request;
(ii)   without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be
designated   or  selected   pursuant   to   the
provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing March 1, 2004 and ending September 1, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on September 1,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each


﻿-4-
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever:
(i)    the  Borrower's  gross  national  product  per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall
have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years; and
(ii)   the Bank shall consider the Borrower credit-
worthy for Bank lending, the Association may,
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and
after due consideration by them of the develop-
ment of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice
the amount of each such installment not yet due
until the principal amount of the Credit shall
have been repaid. If so requested by the
Borrower, the Association may revise such
modification to include, in lieu of some or all
of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an
annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision
shall not change the grant element obtained
under    the    above-mentioned      repayment
modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
........                   ......


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MOET with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate educational, financial, administrative and management
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accord-
ance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;


﻿-6-
(ii)   furnish  to  the   Association,  as  soon   as
available, but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii) furnish   to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accord-
ance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special Account was made, all records (con-
tracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives     to
examine such records; and
(iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal con-
trols involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Governor of the State Bank of Viet Nam of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
State Bank of Viet Nam
49 Ly Thai To Street
Hanoi, S.R. Viet Nam
Cable address:           Telex:
VIETBANK                       412248 NHTWVT
Hanoi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC),
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT).


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Hanoi, Socialist Republic of
Viet Nam, as of the day and year first above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
BY
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By              A4/V     kcA
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works              15,500,000      90%
(2)   School furniture          3,540,000      90%
(3)   Goods (other than         5,450,000      100% of foreign
school furniture)                        expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(4)   Textbook printing        15,780,000      100% of foreign
and shipping                             expenditures and
75% of local
expenditures
(5)   Consultants'              4,740,000      100%
services,
studies and
training
(6)   Unallocated               4,590,000
TOTAL                     49,600,000


﻿- 10 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for goods, works and services not
exceeding $200,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to:
(a) improve the quality and relevance of Primary Education in Viet
Nam, through the provision of essential education inputs and the
introduction of a uniform curriculum length; (b) enhance student
access to primary schools, through rehabilitation and upgrading of
existing, and construction of new, educational facilities and
infrastructure; and (c) strengthen the management of Primary
Education in Viet Nam.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Improve Quality and Relevance of Primary Education
1.    Strengthening the EPH's capacity to manage the development,
printing and distribution of textbooks and learning materials,
including textbooks and learning materials for bilingual education
and multi-grade teaching, and improving the quality of textbook
design and durability.
2.    Providing teaching aids to primary schools, and   providing
teaching aids and other inputs to primary teacher training schools,
to enhance research capacity and training.
3.    Introducing multi-grade teaching practices in remote areas
and, wherever required, bilingual education to meet the needs of
ethnic-minority pupils.
Part B: Enhance student access to Primary Schools
Rehabilitation and upgrading of existing, and construction of
new, primary education facilities, including provision of water
supply, furniture and sanitary facilities therein in the Project
Provinces.
Part C: Strengthen the Management of Primary Education in Viet Nam
Strengthening the capacity of MOET and local educational
management   officials  to  manage   primary  education,   through
improvement of information collection and management, 'studies


﻿- 12 -
supporting the rationalization and development of the primary
education system, and staff training in educational management and
project implementation.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.


﻿- 13 -
Annex 1
Project Provinces under Part B of the Project
Municipality of Hanoi
Municipality of Ho Chi Minh
Municipality of Haiphong
An Giang
Ben Tre
Can Tho
Dong Thap
Gia Lai
Hoa Binh
Kien Giang
Kon Tum
Lang Son
Lao Cai
Long An
Minh Hai
Ninh Thuan
Quang Nam Da Nang
Soc Trang
Son La
Thua Thien Hue
Tien Giang
Tra Vinh
Vinh Long
Yen Bai


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and printing of
textbooks shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IERD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For fixed-price contracts, the    invitation  to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency compo-
nents and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods and printing of textbooks in
accordance with this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant
standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project.      Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Socialist
Republic of Viet Nam may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.


﻿- 15 -
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works in the Rural Areas shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
2.    Civil works in the Urban Areas shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association; provided, however, that civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $700,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordanch with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    School furniture in the Rural Areas shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
4.    School furniture in the Urban Areas shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association; provided, however, that school furniture estimated to
cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
5.    Goods, other than school furniture, estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,400,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 16 -
6.    Shipping of textbooks shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
7.    Printing tryouts for textbooks may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for civil works, goods,
school furniture, printing of textbooks and shipping of textbooks
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expendi-
ture.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 17 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.


﻿- 18 -
SCRE'DULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall:
(a)   maintain the Project Coordination Unit in MOET with
functions, powers, responsibilities and funding satisfactory to the
Association, staffed by competent staff in adequate numbers;
(b)   maintain EPH with functions, powers, responsibilities
and funding satisfactory to the Association, staffed by competent
staff in adequate numbers; and
(c)   ensure that at all times during Project implementation,
each Project Province shall maintain a Provincial Project
Coordinator and a Provincial Project Management Committee, and each
Project District shall maintain a District Project Coordinator and
a District Project Management Committee, all with functions, powers
and responsibilities acceptable to the Association.
2.    The Borrower shall:
(a)   prepare and furnish to the Association by October 1 in
each year, commencing on October 1, 1994:
(i)   an annual work program for Project activities in
the following calendar year; and
(ii)   an annual business plan for EPH, of scope
acceptable to the Association;
(b)   prior to December 1 in each year, commencing on December
1, 1994, review such program and such plan with the Association; and
(c)   thereafter, taking  into account the Association's
comments, implement such program and such plan during the following
year, in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
3.    The Borrower shall, by December 1, 1997, undertake a mid-term
review with the Association of Project progress and prospects. For
such purposes the Borrower shall, in lieu of the annual work program
referred to in paragraph 2 of this Schedule, prepare and furnish to
the Association, by October 1, 1997, a comprehensive report of the
activities undertaken under the Project.


﻿- 19 -
4.    The Borrower shall, through MOET, implement a phased program
of school mapping covering all of Viet Nam, acceptable to the
Association, to be completed by December 31, 2000.
5.    The Borrower undertakes that all training under Part C of the
Project shall be carried out in accordance with a program acceptable
to the Association, and that all studies under such Part of the
Project shall be carried out in accordance with terms of reference
and timing acceptable to the Association.
6.    By September 1, 1994, the Borrower shall, through MOET,
prepare and furnish to the Association, for its review and comments,
a plan for textbook distribution, and thereafter, taking into
account the Association's comments, implement such plan, in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)     (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 21 -
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested.   On the basis of
each such request, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower,     withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said
documents and other evidence to have been paid
out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding -the provisions of paragraph    3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn    amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remain-
ing unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible


﻿- 22 -
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of-such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:
(i)   was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or
(ii)  was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association: (A) provide
such additional evidence as the Association may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.       Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit into
the Special Account.                    -
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


