Report No. PID11573
Project Name                     ALBANIA-Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Central government administration (40%);
Other social services (20%); Health (20%);
General education sector (20%)
Project ID                       P077739
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Address: Deshmoret e Kombit Boulevard
Contact Person: Deputy Minister of Finance Adriana Berberi
Tel: (355-42) 284-05
Fax: (355-42) 284-94
Email:
Environment Category             U
Date PID Prepared                January 31, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              January 29, 2003
Bank Approval Date               June 24, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Albania faces a range of macroeconomic and structural reform issues.
Albania's prospects for growth, development and poverty reduction are in
general good, especially in view of a more favorable and stable political
climate in Southeastern Europe and enhanced prospects for a closer
association with the European Union, as well as the Government's intention
to continue with structural reforms. One of the key aspects of economic
policy in Albania has been the strict maintenance of fiscal discipline
since the second half of the 1990s. As a result, the fiscal deficit has
beenwas reduced and there has been a significant decline in the level of
domestic financing of the budget deficit, resulting from a moderate
increase in revenues and strict limits on expenditures. Despite these
improvements, a number of fiscal challenges remain. Direct taxes
constitute a small share of total taxes, and the collection of the VAT has
fallen short of its potential. Total revenues as a share of GDP remain
significantly lower in Albania than in most other transition economies,
despite comparable tax rates. Total expenditures have been on the rise,
but the quality of expenditures, particularly those in support of poverty
reduction objectives, needs significant improvement.     Continued adherence
to fiscal discipline to further reduce the budget deficit is necessary in
the coming years. The objective should be to sustain a fiscal deficit
that is compatible with low levels of inflation and public debt while
allowing the necessary financing for key investment expenditures, social
services, and targeted support for the poor and the vulnerable.
A 2002 Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) has just been completed,
and the data is just now becoming available.    This is the first
nationally representative household survey for Albania. The data from the
LSMS cannot be used to set trends with earlier incomplete survey efforts,



but it is a major step forward in helping to understand household income,
expenditures and behavior.    The income-based 1998 Living Conditions
Survey (LCS) estimated that roughly one-third of Albanians are poor, with
about half of them in extreme poverty.    These figures were presented in
the November 2001 NSSED. Preliminary 2002 LSMS results (to be fully
presented in the forthcoming NSSED update) suggest that when one uses a
cost of basic needs methodology, 25.4 percent of Albanians, or close to
780,000 individuals, fall below the poverty line. Little extreme poverty
exists - as defined by the food poverty line - with less than 5 percent
of the population, unable to meet basic food requirements. Consistent
with previous studies, poverty is higher in rural areas - at almost 30
percent - with a poverty headcount 50 percent higher than other urban
areas. Although the difference remains significant, the magnitude of the
urban/rural gap is smaller than estimated by the LCS 1998, largely due to
survey methodologies. The Gini coefficient is 0.28, roughly in line with
other countries in ECA, and with little variation across regions. It is
worth noting that a 2001 Qualitative Poverty Assessment found that
transition is also giving rise to new vulnerable groups such as street
children (in urban areas) and recently transplanted poor households in
peri-urban areas. While we can hypothesize that growth in Albania has had
a beneficial impact on household welfare, there is no quantitative basis
for establishing with confidence the magnitude and trend of the past
growth effect. This information gap will no longer be an issue as the
five year household survey program continues implementation.
As reported in previous studies, the non-income dimensions of poverty
compound the reported low-income levels. The situation is particularly
disconcerting in rural and most remote areas of the country. A study
carried out by the Ministry of Health in 2000 on public perceptions of
health care services highlights the existence of physical and economic
barriers to access health care. With the exception of Tirana, people
reported having limited access to hospitals; in rural areas, people also
reported limited access to ambulatory facilities. Many reported economic
barriers to access health care. The study also reports a widespread
perception of poor quality in both ambulatory and hospital care. In the
case of education, although Albania started the transition with high
levels of participation, enrollment rates in all but tertiary level of
education have declined since. This decline has been specially marked in
upper secondary education, affecting enrollment in vocational schools the
most. Additionally, enrollment in rural areas has decreased more abruptly
than in cities. However, the large movements of people from rural to
urban areas give reasons to believe that low participation in education
might be a problem in peri-urban areas. This is the case not only because
the new settlers are poor, but also because the education system in large
cities is not sufficiently prepared to absorb the newcomers.
The 2002 LSMS shows that only one in four rural households has access to
running water inside the dwelling, and more than 50 percent have no
running water at all. The broad coverage in urban areas of major basic
services like water and electricity hide an equally disconcerting scenario
in terms of service quality.    Only one in four households in Tirana
believe that the water they use is of drinking quality. Among the
households that do receive running water, nearly one third of those in
other urban areas (one fourth in Tirana) report having had water for less
than six hours each day. Only 42 percent of rural households have a
- 2 -



toilet inside their dwelling, with almost half of the rural population not
having any access to a piped toilet. Electricity is another case in
point. While the coverage of the network is virtually universal, the
delivery of the service is highly unreliable, with the situation being
worse in rural communities. Only 14.3 percent of Albanian households
report receiving electricity continuously (30 percent in Tirana, 7 percent
in rural areas). Of those reporting interruptions, electricity was not
available for as long as 8.5 hours on average on a typical day. The LSMS
shows that the poor as twice as likely to lack access to key public and
private services. Only 2 of 10 poor children enroll in secondary
education, versus 5 of 10 among the non-poor.
The Government intends to make Albania's development strategy inclusive
and focused on the poor with the objective of increasing its per capita
income closer to the neighboring European countries. The aims are to
share widely the benefits of growth and to achieve sustained poverty
reduction. The National Strategy for Social and Economic Development
(November 2001) rests on two main pillars--improving governance and
sustaining high economic growth--and emphasizes education, health care, and
infrastructure as priority areas for policy intervention. The NSSED
identifies Albania's main development challenges: weak law enforcement;
corruption; an unattractive investment climate; low quality and
inaccessible social services, especially education and health; poor
infrastructure; and a shortage of basic necessities, including water,
sanitation, and heating. The NSSED recognizes that weak governance and
institutions are at the root of Albania's developmental problems. It also
acknowledges that economic growth will be the main instrument to reduce
poverty in Albania. Maintaining macroeconomic stability and adequate
social protection are cited as preconditions for implementing the
strategy.   The NSSED also emphasizes stronger public accountability and
increased public participation in decision making to empower the poor.
The NSSED has five main goals: (i) achieve real GDP growth of 22-25
percent; (ii) reduce the number of people living in poverty, particularly
extreme poverty; (iii) make tangible improvements in infrastructure and
related services, such as electric power, potable water supply, and
sewerage, increasing the poor's access to these services; (iv) reduce
infant and maternal mortality rates and the incidence of infectious
diseases; and (v) increase elementary and secondary school enrollment
rates and the average schooling period.
The NSSED is undergoing an update that should be completed in early
2003.   The Ministry of Finance is responsible for overseeing the
preparation, and technical working groups with civil society
representation have been established for each of the key sectors
undergoing review. The MoF has also upgraded the NSSED Technical
Secretariat to a Department. The Government participated actively in a
Southeastern Europe Poverty Reduction Strategies Forum (October/November
2002) that was organized by the multilateral organizations (IMF, World
Bank and UNDP), and also organized a very productive NSSED monitoring
workshop in October 2002. The Carter Center has been assisting the
Government with the consultation process, and has been in close contact
with the Bank on the progress of the NSSED process - this process is
described in detail in the May 2002 CAS. A National Workshop to discuss
the NSSED will be conducted in early April 2003.    The NSSED process is
actively working, with Bank and UNDP support, to reference and incorporate
-3 -



the Millennium Development Goals, and sectoral monitoring and evaluation
plans are being prepared.
2. Objectives
The objective of the proposed PRSC program is to develop and implement
policies and structural reforms that are consistent with and supportive of
the Government's poverty reduction and economic development strategy, as
highlighted in the Government's National Strategy for Social and Economic
Development (NSSED), the Government's designation for its Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has been a major partner of the Government in supporting the
preparation of the NSSED program. The IDA PRSC program has strived to
work with the Government, donors and other stakeholders to ensure the
maximum level of coordination in program actions. For example, the PRSC
program does not duplicate public sector reforms that are being supported
by the European Union. Similarly, the PRSC does not duplicate reforms
that are supported under other Bank operations, such as those related to
energy. The actions aim to complement, not duplicate, the reform strategy.
4. Description
The project consists of four components to support the NSSED. This will
be a single tranche adjustment operation providing balance of payments
support. The components are:
Promoting sustainable growth and supporting private sector development
Strengthening capacity to monitor and evaluate the policy agenda
Improving service delivery and social safety net effectiveness
Strengthening the policy formulation process, public expenditure
management and inter-governmental fiscal relations
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $0.00
IBRD
IDA $10.00
Total Project Cost $10.00
6. Implementation
The Government has appointed the Minister of Finance as National NSSED
Coordinator to manage the overall implementation of the PRSC. The MOF has
replaced its NSSED Technical Secretariat with an NSSED Directorate, with a
Director to be appointed shortly.    The primary implementing line agencies
will be the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economic Cooperation and
Trade, Ministry of Education and Science, Ministry of Agriculture and
Food, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Local Government and
Decentralization, Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, the Department of
Public Administration, and the INSTAT.
Overall monitoring of the program will be through regular reviews, in
collaboration with the NSSED Technical Secretariat, and in the context of
the preparation and supervision of the subsequent PRSCs. The NSSED will
include a monitoring plan that will summarize the principal indicators to
be tracked during the program, the related data sources, and the
-4 -



responsible parties. Simple input/output indicators will largely be
tracked through administrative information and program reviews. Outcome
and impact indicators will largely be tracked through survey data,
especially through the forthcoming LSMS and follow on panel surveys that
are an integral part of the NSSED program. The overall monitoring plan
will be developed and agreed with the Government during appraisal, and
will update the program indicators and targets, utilizing new data such as
the recent LSMS.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of this operation has been based on (i) regular
macroeconomic assessments, in coordination with the IMF; (ii) an intensive
dialogue on the Government's MTEF program and its bearing on the sectors;
and (iii) sectoral reforms that are designed to improve the fiscal
sustainability of social insurance programs, and to improve the adequacy
and quality of spending in key sectors such as education and health.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The PRSC-1 program and overall implementation of the CAS have highlighted
(i) the importance of cross cutting sectoral issues for successful
implementation of the Government's reform program; (ii) the critical
contribution that stakeholder involvement plays in overall program
ownership and implementation, as evidenced in the design of the NSSED
program and specific sectoral strategies (e.g., social insurance); (iii)
the importance of donor coordination in order to ensure the maximum
leverage and to avoid overlaps in external assistance; and (iv) the
importance of developing institutional capacity for policy development,
monitoring and evaluation.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The proposed operation has been rated a structural
adjustment credit governed under Operational Directive 8.60, and does not
require an environmental assessment rating. The project team has
endeavored to identify any areas that may require particular attention
with respect to environmental issues.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Philip S. Goldman
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 473-3835
Fax: 477-3387
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
-5-



Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 6 -



