Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY  
October 1, 2002 
 
His Excellency Kastriot Islami 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance  
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit" 
Tirana, Albania 
 
Re:  Japanese Grant for the preparation of  
Albania: Poverty Reduction Support Credit II 
 
Grant TF No. 051129
Dear Sir: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of 
the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate IDA’s agreement, 
as administrator of grant funds provided by the Government of Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding 
four hundred ninety-nine thousand nine hundred U.S. Dollars ($499,900) (the Grant) to Albania (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the purposes and on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its 
agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms 
and conditions. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, and 
returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter 
Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman 
Country Director and Regional Coordinator  
for South East Europe  
Europe and Central Asia Region 
AGREED: 
Albania 
 
Name: /s/ Kastriot Islami 
Title: Minister of Finance 
Date: December 26, 2002 
Page  2
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
1.1. 
The purposes of the Grant are 
to assist the Recipient in the preparation of the Poverty 
Reduction Support Credit II (PRSC II), which has as main objective as: development and 
implementation of fiscally sustainable policies within the framework of the Growth and 
Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS).  The
 activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given 
are as follows: 
 
(a) Promotion of Sustainable Growth and Supporting Private Sector Development
Provision of technical assistance to: (i) finalize an action plan for strengthening 
private sector finance; (ii) prepare a business development strategy to be supported under the 
PRSC program; (iii) identify the remaining policy issues hindering privatization and foreign 
investment; (iv) prepare recommendations to the Social Insurance Institute and Ministry of 
Labor and Social Affairs of the Recipient, concerning the development, re-estimation, 
application and dissemination of the pension policy models to support the next round of 
parametric pension reforms; and (v) prepare a comprehensive implementation plan for the 
Recipient’s rural development strategy, which are estimated to cost US$147,700 equivalent. 
 
(b) Capacity Building to Monitor and Evaluate the Policy Agenda
Provision of technical assistance to support the Recipient’s Institute of Statistics 
(INSTAT) in: (i) developing geographic information system capability within INSTAT; (ii) 
developing data processing procedures; and (iii) organizing a workshop with key 
counterparts engaged in policy development under the GPRS, which are estimated to cost 
US$92,700 equivalent. 
 
(c) Improvement of Service Delivery and Social Safety Net Effectiveness
Provision of technical assistance to: (i) prepare a regional health plan; (ii) prepare a 
program for strengthening the Recipient’s national health accounts system; (iii) prepare a 
study to improve social assistance targeting; (iv) prepare an education strategy aimed at 
supporting an appropriate expenditure and investment program to improve basic and 
secondary enrollment levels; and (v) organize workshops to review and discuss the social 
services reforms, which are estimated to cost US$134,000 equivalent. 
 
(d) Improvement of Core Public sector Functions and Institutional Arrangements
Provision of technical assistance to: (i) assist the line ministries in preparation of 
criteria, procedures for the selection, appraisal and approval of public investment projects; 
(ii) assist strengthening the expenditure evaluation capacity of the line ministries, (iii) assist 
the preparation and implementation of action plans for building monitoring and evaluation 
feedback mechanisms into the management and budget processes of line ministries, (iv) 
support the analysis on internal audit laws and regulations, policies and standards, 
recruitment policy and quality assurance mechanisms; (v) support the development of an 
appropriately sequenced set of policies for completing the basic analytical and regulatory 
Page  3
framework for inter-governmental fiscal relations, which are estimated to cost US$76,500 
equivalent; and 
 
(e) Project Preparation Studies
Provision of other technical assistance to support the preparation of PRSC II, which 
is estimated to cost US$49,000 equivalent. 
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
The Recipient, through the Ministry of Finance, shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due 
diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with 
IDA's representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary 
measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of Albania for purposes related to the Grant.  
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish 
to IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services required for 
the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
Page  4
4.2. 
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities: 
 
%
of  
 Item
Amount of the Grant 
Expenditures to 
 
Allocated (in U.S. Dollars)
be Financed
(1) 
Consultants’ services 
473,900 
85% 
 
(2) Training 
26,000 
85% 
 
TOTAL 499,900
The term “training” means expenditures for organizing local workshops such as the costs of renting 
facilities, accommodations, materials and supplies, per diem for participants, transportation and 
translation costs, or any other expenses related to training as agreed with IDA. 
 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of IDA or for services supplied from such 
territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities if such payment, to IDA’s 
knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after June 24, 2003, or such 
later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), provided that, except 
in special circumstances, the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date of IDA 
approval of financing for the Project.  However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for 
expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application is 
received by IDA within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the 
Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and 
 
(c) 
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, IDA may, 
by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to 
another item which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.  
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance or 
such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such 
evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and 
its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the 
Page  5
carrying out of the Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms costing less than 
US$50,000 equivalent; and (b) services of individual consultants costing less than US$10,000 
equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  IDA, 
at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of 
the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the 
purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in U.S. 
Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA 
shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included 
in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
Page  6
6.1. 
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of Albania, to make withdrawals under 
any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have been 
suspended.  
 
6.2. 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if the Bank has 
decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or 
(d) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s assistance in financing the Project. 
 
Page  7
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I 
and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 
and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for: (a) promotion of sustainable growth and 
supporting private sector development; (b) capacity building to monitor and evaluate the policy 
agenda, GIS and workshop; (c) improvement of social services and social safety net 
effectiveness; (d) strengthening of policy formulation, public expenditure management; and (e) 
preparatory studies under paragraph 1.1(e) of the Annex shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.  
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services for monitoring and evaluation of policy agenda and data processing under 
Paragraph 1.1 (b) (ii), estimated to cost US$51,000 equivalent per contract, may, with IDA’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  8
Part D
:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to IDA, 
for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals. 
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by IDA. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants to be 
selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, the report 
on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, and the terms of reference 
and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such 
contracts. 
(c) 
All Terms of Reference and short lists will be sent to IDA for prior review 
irrespective of the amount of the contract. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  9
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible item(s)" means the item(s) set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 
of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$100,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as IDA shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant Account under 
the eligible item(s), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
Page  10
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount. 
 
