Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3811 ALB 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
ALBANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 24, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3811 ALB 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 24, 2003, between ALBANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated May 12, 
2003, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to eradicate poverty 
from the Borrower’s territory (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof;  
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association; and 
(C) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit as hereinafter 
provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
 (b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Bank of Albania” means the central bank of the Borrower; 
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;  
(c) 
“FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower beginning on January 1 and ending 
December 31 of each year; 
(d) 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the Borrower’s letter referred to in the 
Paragraph (A) of the Preamble to this Agreement;  
Page  4
-
3
-
(e) 
“MTEF” means the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework for the state budget 
and the budget of each state extrabudgetary fund together with details of major investments and 
other projects, adopted by the Borrower; and 
(f) 
“NSSED” means the National Strategy for Social and Economic Development 
of the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to thirteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
13,100,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account 
in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit 
account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  All withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If 
the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have 
been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the 
amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Page  5
-
4
-
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from 
time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year 
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from 
time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually 
on April 15 and October 15 for repayment purposes. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 
15, 2013, and ending April 15, 2023.  Each installment  shall be five percent (5%) of 
such principle amount. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program.  
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after 
the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program. 
Section 3.02.  Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE V 
Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
 For 
the 
Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Bulevardi “Deshmoret e Kombit” 
 
Tirana 
 
Albania 
 
Facsimile: 
 
355
42
28494 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Tirana, 
Albania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ALBANIA 
 
By: /s/ Kastriot Islami  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Eugen Scanteie 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations 
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  10
-
9
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the 
Borrower is a party;  
6. 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations; and 
Page  11
-
10
-
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Program Actions Taken By the Borrower 
1. 
The Borrower has maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic framework. 
2. 
The Borrower has made satisfactory progress in implementing the recommendations of 
the administrative barriers study through an inter-ministerial task force led by its Ministry of 
Economy. 
3. The 
Borrower 
has 
submitted: 
(a) 
the first NSSED annual progress report and its action plan; and 
(b) 
NSSED monitoring plans for the respective 12 ministries listed under Prime 
Minister
’s Order No. 251 of September 23, 2002, identifying objectives, indicators, baselines, 
targets and sources of verification. 
4. 
The Borrower has increased its budget for the health sector for FY2003 in a manner  
consistent with MTEF and based on a satisfactory human resources management plan and health 
facility recurrent cost analysis. 
5. The 
Borrower 
has: 
 
(a) 
ensured that its municipalities and communes collectively budgeted adequate 
funds for the second and third trimesters of FY2003; and 
 
(b) 
allocated additional resources for priority operations and maintenance 
expenditures in primary and public health for FY2003. 
6. 
The Borrower has made a satisfactory progress in implementing measures to strengthen 
primary and public health care service delivery. 
7. 
The Borrower has increased the budget for the education sector in FY2003 in a manner 
consistent with the MTEF. 
8. 
The Borrower has agreed to prepare a policy paper that defines the respective 
responsibilities of the central and local governments in respect of pre-tertiary education in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  13
-
12
-
9. 
The Borrower has approved a textbook policy acceptable to the Association. 
10. 
The Law on Reduction of Benefits for Early Retirement has been enacted. 
11. 
The Borrower has provided evidence of satisfactory personnel actions, in respect of 
appointments and/or dismissals of personnel in key positions of the Borrower, which are 
consistent with the objectives of the relevant legislation, as well as with the principles embodied 
in the draft code of ethics as agreed with the Association and submitted to the Parliament. 
12. 
The Law on Asset Declaration of the Borrower has been enacted and the High 
Inspectorate General has been nominated. 
13. 
The Law on Internal Audit has been enacted and the Borrower has made satisfactory 
progress in its implementation. 
14. 
The Borrower has established procedures for the central treasury to reconcile on a daily 
basis the payment data received from the district treasury offices and the reimbursement data 
received from the Bank of Albania. 
15. 
The amendment to the Law on Public Procurement has been enacted by the Borrower.
 
