Document of
The World Bank                        FILE COPY
FOR OFmICIAL USE ONLY
Reporl No. P-2572-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO MUNICIPAL
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
May 30, 1979
Ths document hs a resiutod daisubuds and may be umd by recIpiets only In the performance of
u oir ecla duts. Its coatets may n*t oierwse be dksiood without Word Bnk athoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
January 1979     Mid-1979 Estimate
Currency Unit = Peso (Col$)
US$1           =  Col$41.00              43.00
Col$           = US$0.0244               0.0233
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA           =  Canadian International Development Association
DNP            =  National Planning Department
EMPOS          =  Regional or Municipal Sanitary Works Company
EPM            =  Municipal Public Company
IDB            =  Inter-American Development Bank
INAS           =  Instituto Nacional de Salud
(National Institute of Health)
INSFOPAL       =  Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal
(National Institute for Municipal Development)
UDI            =  Institutional Development Unit
USAID          =  US Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL)
Beneficiaries:              Regional and municipal water supply and sewerage
companies
Guarantor:                  Republic of Colombia
Amount:                     US$31 million equivalent
Terms:                      Repayment in 17 years, including four years of
grace at 7.9% interest per annum
Relending Terms:            As above, with the beneficiaries taking tlhe foreign
exchange risk.
Project Description:        The project would (i) improve sanitary conditions
in 23 cities by providing additional water supply
and/or sewerage services, as well as improving
existing services, and (ii) strengthen the Borrower
and the participating water and sewerage regional/
municipal companies. Of the project investments
about 35% would be for sewerage works, 20% for
distribution pipes, 17% for water production, 11%
for engineering and administration, and the remainding
17% for pumping stations, storage tanks, meters and
operation equipment, and technical assistance. The
project would provide water through house connec-
tions to about 473,000 people in 19 cities by 1983,
and sewerage services to 654,000 people in 14
cities by 1983; about half of this population
belongs to poorest population earning less than one
third of the per capita national income. The
project presents higher than usual risks in that
it may not be implemented in the intended period,
principally because the borrower and the partici-
pating water and sewerage companies may rnot be able
to achieve the forecast institutional andl financial
improvements within a short period of time. It is
to be expected, however, that the Government's
commitment to strengthening the institutions in the
water and sewerage sector together with close
supervision of the project by the Bank will minimize
delays in implementation.
This docurnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
Local   Foreign   Total
(US$ million equivalent)
Water production                        4.68      4.06      8.74
Pumping stations                         1.14     1.31      2.45
Storage tanks                           1.65      0.96      2.61
Distribution pipes                      5.78      4.58    10.36
Meters and Operation Equipment           1.11      1.42     2.53
Sewerage works                         10.96      6.64    17.60
Technical assistance and training    0.41         0.65      1.06
Engineering and administration          3.03      2.25      5.28
Base Cost                            28.76    21.87    50.63
Physical Contingencies                  4.29      3.28      7.57
Price Contingencies                     7.85      5.85    13.70
Total Project Cost                   40.90    31.00    71.90
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
(US$ million equivalent)
Government contribution              31.7                31.7
Net internal cash generation          9.2                 9.2
Bank loan                                      31.0      31.0
Total                              40.9      31.0      71.9
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY               1980      1981    1982    1983    1984
(US$ million equivalent) 
Annual                 2.1       8.3    11.8      7.1      1.7
Cumulative             2.1      10.4    22.2    29.3    31.0
Rate of Return:         The internal rate of return for the project as a whole
is estimated to be 13%.
Appraisal Report:       Report No. 2275a-CO, dated May 18, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO MUNICIPAL
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
PROPOSED THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL SIZE CITIES
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL) with the guarantee
of the Republic of Colombia for the equivalent of US$31 million to help finance
a Third Medium and Small Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project. The
loan would have a term of 17 years, including four years of grace, with
interest at 7.9% per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY I/
2.        An economic report on Colombia (2235-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in January 1979. An updating mission visited Colombia
during February 1979 and is preparing its report. Its findings are sum-
marized below. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I.
Background
3.        During the past two decades, Colombia has made substantial progress
in the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural economy made
up of largely self-contained regions to a more integrated urban-industrial
economy. The productive base of the economy has been widened appreciably,
and there has been substantial diversification of production in both the
agricultural and industrial sectors. These improvements have been accompanied
by rapid growth of non-traditional exports and by the development of a
modern sector relying to a considerable extent on imported inputs. As a
result, the country has become less dependent on coffee as a source of
foreign exchange earnings, and fluctuations in domestic economic conditions
resulting from unpredictable shifts in world coffee prices, while still
considerable, have become more manageable. Although substantial progress
has been made during the past two decades, Colombia is still only partially
developed with a limited modern sector superimposed on a large, traditional
and economically poor base. Per capita income is low by developed world
standards, the maintenance of high employment is a persistent problem, and in
1975 an estimated 55.0% of the rural and 24.0% of the urban population had
incomes under the relative poverty level as defined by the Bank.
4.        Colombia's population growth rate declined sharply in the past
two decades; from well over 3% in the 1950s, to about 2.8% in the early 1970s
1/   Unchanged from President's Report, Second (Cartagena) Urban Development
Project (Report No. P-2472a-CO dated April 18, 1979).



- 2 -
and to an estimated 2.1% at present. 1/ This was in large part the result
of a rapid decline in the crude birth rate; one of the most pronounced declines
ever recorded in a Latin American country. Rising per capita income, rapid
rural/urban migration, expanded economic opportunities for women and increased
effectiveness of family planning programs are included among the factors
responsible for the lower birth rate. Although rural/urban migration slowed
from the early 1960s on as progress was made in eliminating the widespread
violence in the countryside, approximately 64% of the current population lives
in urban centers and there are now 22 cities with populations exceeding
100,000 persons. Colombia's population is not considered excessive relative
to the country's resource base. Economic growth will have to average around
7%, however, especially in the directly productive and service sectors, in
order to increase employment at a pace sufficient to keep up with growth of
the labor force.
5.        Available information--while scanty--suggests that some improvement
has occurred in income distribution and welfare of the lowest income groups
in Colombia since the 1950s. These gains were probably the consequence of
several factors, including migration of surplus labor from rural to urban
areas, rapid growth of employment in high productivity jobs in industry and
the services and reduced population growth. Policy efforts, particularly
since 1967, have been directed increasingly toward improving the welfare of
the poorest 50% of the population. These efforts have emphasized both
employment generation and greater public investment in health, education,
nutrition and urban development. The Bank has strongly supported these
efforts. Continued emphasis on growth of the productive sectors of the
economy, on industrial decentralization and on programs to encourage small-
scale industry and agriculture should provide increased employment oppor-
tunities and higher real wages for unskilled and semi-skilled labor in both
rural and urban areas. Further improvement in the public services provided
to the poor should reinforce these trends and raise the level of welfare of
this segment of the population.
6.        The Colombian authorities introduced a dramatic change in develop-
ment strategy in 1967, shifting emphasis from the then existing protectionist
policy of import substitution to measures designed to expand and diversify
exports. These policies were highly successful in expanding exports, thereby
alleviating the foreign exchange constraint and making possible a substantially
higher level of investment. As a consequence, real GDP rose by an average
6.5% annually between 1967-1969 and 1974, well above the historical average.
Merchandise exports in current prices expanded nearly threefold during this
period, and most significantly, non-traditional exports became an increasingly
important source of foreign exchange earnings, in part compensating for slow
growth of receipts from coffee exports. By 1974, non-coffee exports comprised
56% of total merchandise exports, up from about 30% in 1967.
1/   Estimated 1978 growth rate.  This rate differs from that given as the
most recent estimate in the Social Indicators Data Sheet (Annex I) which
is an average for early 1970s.



-3-
7.        Despite the growth of output and the diversification of exports,
the country faced some potentially serious problems at the time the new
administration took office in 1974. Weakening balance of payments in part
related to the slowdown of growth in the industrial countries, loss of
self-sufficiency in petroleum production, deterioration of the public
finances, accelerating inflation, and declining investment threatened to
reduce growth of output and employment. As a consequence of these develop-
ments, the Government introduced an economic stabilization program which
combined basic reforms of the fiscal, monetary, and trade systems with
measures aimed at accelerating long-term economic growth.
8.        In an effort to strengthen the public finances, the Government
undertook a comprehensive tax reform designed to improve the progressivity
and elasticity of the tax system. Some of the distortions which had deve-
loped in the financial system caused by forced investment requirements
placed on financial institutions and by differential tax treatment of
financial instruments were eliminated. Interest rates were raised in an
effort to increase private savings and improve resource allocation. In
order to increase the efficiency of the economy through greater reliance on
market forces, price controls on a number of industrial and agricultural
products were removed, thereby providing greater stimulus for increasing
production. Modifications in petroleum pricing policy aimed at regaining
self-sufficiency in the production of crude petroleum by improving incen-
tives for exploration and exploitation were introduced. Concurrently, the
Government initiated policies designed to reduce the subsidy on local
consumption of petroleum products, which eventually led to a 220% increase
in gasoline prices by 1978. Tariff levels and non-tariff barriers to trade
were reduced significantly in order to increase competition and the effi-
ciency of domestic firms. While these reforms were successful in improving
the public finances and reducing inflation in 1975, they also served to
reduce economic growth and the slowdown of domestic economic activity which
began in 1974 continued through most of 1975.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        During the past three years, the Colombian economy has been
dominated by developments in the external sector. As the result of a
serious frost in late 1975 affecting Brazil's major coffee producing area,
coffee exports from that country declined sharply triggering a fourfold
increase in the world price of coffee by mid-1977. This caused Colombia's
export earnings from coffee to increase to nearly US$1.8 billion in 1977
from US$764 million in 1975, and produced an unprecedented rise in incomes
and demand in the country's rural areas. Lagging supply of consumer goods,
particularly basic foodstuffs--the production of which was adversely affected
by drought conditions in most of the country's interior--failed to keep pace
with rising demand and inflation accelerated from 24% in 1975 to 44% in the
twelve months ending June 1977. Inflation in Colombia has been moderate
relative to that experienced by other countries in the region, seldom
exceeding an annual rate of 20%. The acceleration of inflation which took
place during the period, therefore, was unprecedented in recent history, and
efforts to lower the rate of inflation have dictated economic policy since
that time.



- 4 -
10.       The authorities responded rapidly by introducing a broad range
of fiscal, monetary and trade policies designed to gain control over the
explosive increase in prices. Beginning in late 1976 reserve requirements
were raised and rediscounting and public sector borrowing from the Central
Bank were discouraged. The authorities temporarily suspended their policy of
periodically adjusting the exchange rate and prices of petroleum products.
In January 1977, a 100% marginal reserve requirement was placed on increases
in commercial bank deposits exceeding the December 31, 1976 level. To delay
the impact of rising foreign exchange receipts on the monetary base, exporters
were required to accept 90-day US dollar denominated certificates of exchange
in lieu of cash payment for their exports. In order to sterilize a portion of
the increase in foreign exchange earnings from coffee exports, the Coffee
Federation agreed to invest a large portion of its receipts in Central Bank
bonds, the proceeds of which were frozen in a special account. To increase
supplies in the domestic market, a number of measures were taken to liberalize
imports. Food imports by the state marketing agency, IDEMA, were increased
sharply. In addition, restrictive fiscal measures were introduced to curb
growth of aggregate demand and in 1977 the Treasury registered an overall
budgetary surplus for the first time in recent years.
11.       As a consequence of these measures and a favorable second semester
harvest, inflation declined sharply beginning in July 1977. By the end of
the year, the annual rate of inflation had fallen to 29%. With inflation
subsiding, periodic exchange rate adjustments and gasoline price increases
were reintroduced. With few other exceptions, however, the stabilization
policies were continued in effect throughout 1978 and by year end inflation
had subsided to an annual rate of 17.8%.
12.       Because of the lack of dynamism in world markets, slow growth in
agricultural production, capacity constraints in the industrial sector and
a decline in real investment, the Colombian economy expanded only moderately
in 1976 and 1977. Growth of real GDP increased from 3.8% in 1975, to 4.6%
and 4.8% respectively in the subsequent two years. The higher growth was
a direct result of the expansion of domestic demand brought about by the
rise in incomes of coffee producers. Output in the trade and personal
services sectors of the economy (including transport and communications)
responded strongly to the rising demand, while agricultural output, because
of the drought, rose by only 2.2% p.a. on average for the 1976-77 period.
Industrial sector output rose by only 5.4% p.a. during this period, despite
the strong growth in domestic demand. Because growth occurred in the rela-
tively labor intensive sectors of the economy -- personal services, trade,
transport and communications and manufacturing -- the urban unemployment
rate had declined to an estimated 8% by the end of 1977, from an average 12%
during the early 1970s. In addition, there is evidence of labor shortages
and rising real wage rates in rural areas during this period, and it is
believed that rural unemployment also declined.
13.       Preliminary estimates for 1978 show a strong increase in real
GDP resulting primarily from continued stimulus to aggregate demand from
high coffee receipts and from an expansion of investment. In addition,
favorable weather conditions permitted a sharp recovery in agricultural



output. Real GDP growth is estimated at 8% for the year, with agricultural
production estimated to have grown by as much as 9% over the low level of
1977.  'Thile coffee prices fell considerably in 1978 from their 1977 levels,
this decline was more than offset by expanding export volume as Colombia
undertook a more aggressive coffee export policy. Consequently, receipts from
coffee exports rose to nearly US$2.1 billion for the year. The accompanying
rise in domestic demand and a modest recovery in export markets caused manu-
facturing and transport and communications to grow by 8.5% each and trade
(including commerce) by 9.0%. Construction activity, which had continued at
a low level during the past several years, recovered strongly in 1978, partially
as a result of an increase in speculative demand arising from an inflow of
funds from contraband activities. Only the mining sector, in which output
fell by 2.3% as a result of declining oil production, failed to show signifi-
cant growth in 1978. Open unemployment in urban areas is estimated to have
fallen to 7.6% by June 1978.
14.       Colombia's balance of payments was also highly favorable in 1978,
continuing the trend of the previous three years. Largely as a result of
the increase in coffee exports, although non-coffee exports rose modestly
(7.0%) in real terms also, Colombia's net official international reserves
rose by US$664 million, reaching US$2,493 million by the end of the year,
equivalent to about nine months imports of goods and non-factor services.
This increase in reserves occurred despite a nominal 25% increase in import
payments, reflecting the rise in domestic demand, continued overvaluation
of the exchange rate and liberal import policies. There were few significant
modifications in trade and exchange rate policies in 1978. The slow rate
of peso devaluation was continued during the first three quarters of the
year, but accelerated in the fourth quarter when the pace of reserve accumu-
lation began to slow. In general, trade and exchange rate policies were
directed towards reducing the impact on the monetary base of reserve accumula-
tion by delaying the monetization of export receipts and advancing import
payments. These measures complemented monetary policies which were aimed at
restraining growth of the money supply.
15.       Colombia's public finances generated a large surplus in 1978
thereby permitting the Government to relax somewhat the policy of fiscal
restraint which formed part of its anti-inflationary program during the
previous two years. Current savings of the public sector rose to an
estimated 6.0% of GDP, compared with 5.5% of GDP in 1977, and covered about
90% of public sector investment. Both the Central Government 1/ and the
consolidated decentralized agencies increased their savings in 1978,
the former by 29% and the latter by 153%. The strong increase in savings
of the decentralized agencies, which rose to 1.4% of GDP from 0.7% in 1977,
was the result of increased charges for the services they provide and of
restraint on current expenditures. Large increases in customs duties and
in sales taxes brought about by the growth in domestic demand were the main
factors responsible for the increase in savings of the Central Government.
As a consequence of this improved financial situation, public sector fixed
1/   Comprised of the National Government, the National Highway Fund and the
Social Security Agencies.



- 6 -
investment rose during the year, reaching 6.9% of GDP compared with 6.3% of GDP
on average for the 1975-77 period. Some of the heaviest investment took place
in the development of hydropower and in the petroleum sector, for both explora-
tion and development.
16.       Despite continuation of the stabilization programs largely unchanged
from last year, the rate of inflation accelerated sharply in early 1979. On
an annual basis, inflation had reached 22.7% by the end of April. At the same
time, the international price of coffee fell sharply, prompting the Government
to take measures to avoid a large financial deficit for the Coffee Federation.
In the past, such deficits were financed in part through recourse to the
Central Bank. The Federation, an autonomous entity which manages the domestic
and external marketing of Colombia's coffee, purchases coffee from producers
at a fixed price in pesos and then sells it on the world market. Since the
Federation stands ready to purchase all coffee offered at the fixed price, it
also bears the financial burden of stock accumulation in periods of declining
world prices. After paying taxes and marketing costs equivalent to nearly 25%
of the international price, the Federation could not sustain the high domestic
purchase price given the lower world coffee price without incurring huge
losses. To avoid this, the domestic purchase price of coffee was lowered by
12% and the exchange certificate system was abolished for coffee exports.
This latter measure will result in the conversion to cash over the next
several months of around Col$10 billion in outstanding exchange certificates.
To offset the monetary impact of this measure, reserve requirements on term
deposits of commercial banks and financial corporations are to be increased
gradually over the next few months, to 25% from 20% at present, and prior
import deposit requirements have been raised substantially, to 95% from 40%
and 60% previously. In addition, the interest rate on dollar denominated
certificates issued by the Central Bank was raised to 14% from 7% in an
attempt to absorb some of the funds flowing from the exchange certificates.
In a separate measure, retail gasoline prices were increased in mid-March and
Sunday sales of gasoline were outlawed. Gasoline prices have been raised by
67% since September 1978.
Development Strategy and Prospects
17.       The development strategy embodied in the 1975-78 Development Plan
aimed at accelerating the rate of growth of GDP and at distributing the
benefits of such growth more equitably. This was to be achieved by increasing
the allocative efficiency of the economy through greater reliance on market
forces, by providing incentives for increasing private sector investment, by
expanding economic and social infrastructure, and by improving public services
provided to the poorest half of the population. Substantial progress has
been made in carrying out this strategy during the past four years. Public
sector investments have focused increasingly on projects designed to alleviate
rural and urban poverty and on expanding and improving infrastructure. Compre-
hensive integrated rural development and nutrition projects aimed at increasing
incomes and welfare of the lowest income groups have been introduced.  Urban
development projects designed to provide improved services and employment
opportunities to residents of slum areas in Colombia's major cities have been
initiated. These programs have been complemented by policies to encourage the



development of small- and medium-scale enterprises and to decentralize industry
away from the three largest cities. This latter policy, together with credit
programs aimed at increasing output and employment in agriculture, have been
designed to alleviate rural poverty and reduce rural/urban migration. Public
sector infrastructure investments have been concentrated on improvement and
extension of highway and communications systems. Special priority has been
given to the development of domestic energy sources to reduce the country's
growing dependence on imported oil.
18.       Increased emphasis on provision of improved social services is re-
flected in the increased proportion of total National Government expenditure on
education, health, and water and sewerage systems, which rose from 33% in 1974
to 38% in 1977. The economic dislocations caused by the coffee boom and the
need to concentrate economic policy on short-term management problems have
limited expansion of public and private investment and required temporary
suspension of some of the measures designed to free the price system and
stimulate growth of non-traditional exports.
19.       The Government, which took office in August 1978, intends to continue
with essentially the same development strategy as the previous administration.
Under this strategy, economic growth is to be promoted through expansion of
non-coffee exports and through measures to stimulate investment and increase
the efficiency of resource allocation. This Government proposes to give
greater emphasis to expansion of economic and social infrastructure, however,
with particular stress on improving transport and communications networks.
Improvement in transport and communications infrastructure is expected to
encourage increased inter-regional trade which, together with alleviation of
the foreign exchange constraint, should further stimulate investment and
economic growth. Measures to encourage industrial decentralization have been
introduced to complement the actions taken to unify regional markets.
20.       Rapid expansion of domestic energy resources is to be given high
priority with the view to regaining self-sufficiency in energy as early as
possible. Even under the most optimistic assumptions regarding development
of such resources, however, Colombia will continue to rely heavily on energy
imports until the mid-1980s when exports of coal and natural gas are expected
to reduce the country's net energy deficit. Small scale agriculture and
industry will continue to receive strong support through credit, and low
income rural areas are to be helped through rural electrification, health
and education programs and through expansion of feeder road projects.
Innovative programs such as the integrated rural development (DRI) and
nutrition projects financed by the Bank are expected to receive continued
high priority. Public investment programs in education, health, water and
sewerage and urban development (especially those directed at alleviating
urban poverty) are to be continued as well.
21.       Given the country's strong resource base and its high level of
international reserves, Colombia should be able to achieve annual real GDP
growth averaging about 7% during the 1979-83 period. Maintenance of this
level of growth will require rapid expansion of non-coffee exports and high
savings and investment rates. Public sector investment is expected to expand
faster than GDP during this period because of the large proposed programs



- 8 -
for infrastructure, social services and energy development. Financial require-
ments for this higher level of investment will be substantial and public
sector savings will have to be sustained at the current high levels. Given
the expected decline in coffee revenue, improvements will be required in the
administration and collection of non-coffee taxes, and additional tax measures
may be required. Of equal importance is the continued upward adjustment in
prices charged for the goods and services provided by the public decentralized
agencies. Growth of non-coffee exports, especially of manufactured goods,
will no doubt be strongly influenced by the rates of economic growth of
Colombia's major trading partners, but appropriate domestic incentives will
also play an important role. In this regard, it is expected that Colombia will
follow an exchange rate policy designed to maintain the competitiveness of
Colombian exports and that additional export promotion measures will be
adopted to encourage both product and market diversification.
22.       Greater efforts to increase efficiency and production in the agricul-
tural and industrial sectors will also be needed to complement incentives given
to non-traditional exports. Programs to meet these needs in the agricultural
sector, including integrated rural development, expansion of farm credit, im-
proved research and extension services, and upgraded marketing facilities, are
already in place and will need to be strengthened. Further development of
the country s capital markets is expected to increase private savings and im-
prove the allocation of financial resources, thereby providing the basis for
more rapid growth of industry. Ongoing and future infrastructure investments
by the public sector should facilitate improvements in economic efficiency and
lead to more rapid growth of output and employment in both industry and
agriculture.
23.       Projections of Colombia's energy balance indicate a rapidly growing
deficit that is expected to reach significant proportions in the early 1980s
in the absence of an aggressive energy development program. To avoid the con-
straint on growth that large scale shortages of energy would entail, high
priority is being given to the development of additional energy sources. The
strategy which is being pursued is to reduce the nation's dependence on petro-
leum as an energy source by developing substitutes such as hydropower, coal
and natural gas. Major projects are being executed and others prepared to
expand hydroelectric power generation and incentives are being given to pri-
vate foreign companies for accelerated exploration and development of the
country's petroleum, coal and natural gas potential. Exports of coal and
natural gas are expected to offset a large portion of the petroleum imports
projected for the mid to late 1980s. Conservation of existing resources
resulting from higher energy prices is expected to slow the growth in energy
demand. While the total investment cost of future energy development is still
being determined, preliminary estimates indicate that the required investment
could run as high as US$8.0 billion in current prices over the next decade.
Even under the most optimistic assumption regarding foreign private investment,
suppliers' credits and domestic resource mobilization, external long-term
financing of about US$4.0 billion would be required in this sector alone
during this period. Any significant delay in implementing the country's
energy development program would most likely have serious adverse repercus-
sions on future economic growth.



24.       Because of the expected continued decline in world coffee prices,
accelerating oil imports and the high import content of future investment
projects, the current account of the balance of payments is expected to be
in deficit throughout the early to mid-1980s. Increased mineral exports
including coal, natural gas, and nickel, and completion of the large invest-
ments in energy development are expected to relieve the pressure on the
balance of payments by the late 1980s. Colombia is expected, therefore, to
continue to be a large net importer of capital for some time to come. Its
future external resource requirements reflect the need to supplement domestic
savings in order to carry out the public sector investment program and to
provide increasing amounts of foreign exchange to finance required imports
of capital and intermediate goods. Assuming that the Colombian authorities
permit a drawdown of international reserves to the equivalent of three months'
imports in the years immediately ahead, gross external capital requirements
are projected at US$6.3 billion between 1979 and 1983, or an annual average
of about US$1,260 million. About half of Colombia's capital inflow during
this period is expected to be provided by official multilateral and lbilateral
sources, with commercial financial credits becoming increasingly important.
25.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency
amounted to US$4.2 billion at the end of 1978, of which US$2.7 billion
was disbursed and outstanding. The Bank/IDA share of this external ,debt
was 29% and is expected to rise to 31% by 1983, before declining to :29%
again by 1985. Although the public debt service ratio fell during the past
two years as export growth accelerated, this ratio is expected to increase
from 10.2% in 1978 to about 14.7% in 1983. Balance of payments prospects
beyond 1980 will depend heavily on the timely development of domestic
energy sources and on progress made in executing several natural resource-
based export oriented projects currently under preparation. Given the
expected continuation of sound economic and financial management and timely
execution of the country's energy program, it should be possible to prevent
the external sector from again becoming a constraint on economic growth and
to maintain Colombia's creditworthiness for the required external borrowing.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
25.       The proposed loan, the 80th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$2,097.6 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount, US$1,593.7 million is now held by the Bank; IDA made
one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in 1961. Disbursements have been
completed on 47 loans and the IDA credit. IFC has made investments and
underwritten commitments of US$53.7 million in 24 enterprises and now holds
US$17.94 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, the
IDA credit and IFC investments as of March 31, 1979. The Annex also contains
summaries on the execution of ongoing projects.
26.     Since FY68, Bank lending in Colombia has become more diversified and
has been concentrated on production-oriented programs and activities which
emphasize social as well as economic benefits. Eight of the eleven agricul-
tural loans have been made since then, nine of the twelve loans for industry,



- 10 -
all three loans in the education sector, one loan for a nutrition project,
two loans for urban development and, including the proposed project, all
nine loans for water supply and sewerage. This compares with only ten loans
since FY68 in the power and transport sectors.
27.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY78, consisted of loans for nutrition
improvement, water and sewerage, urban development, power generation and inter-
connection, development finance companies and development of an export process-
ing zone, totalling US$354.6 million equivalent. In addition to the proposed
project, the FY79 program includes the already approved aviation development,
Mesitas hydroelectric, and Cartagena urban, and Bogota's water and sewerage
projects and proposed loans for power, nickel mining and agricultural credit
for land reform beneficiaries. Work is also under way in vocational training,
transportation, further mining development, power, including rural electrifica-
tion, land settlement, further agricultural credit for commercial and small
farmers and small scale industry for possible consideration by the Executive
Directors during the next two years.
28.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy. To help Colombia develop domestic sources of energy, a
substantial part of the proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank
intends to assist the development of coal mines and petroleum, which hold
potential in helping Colombia meet part of its energy requirements and in
diversifying exports. Bank involvement in the energy sector would help
mobilize additional external financing as some of the projects would require
co-financing. Other future loans would finance agriculture, industry and
mining to assist the Government in its efforts to raise overall productivity,
income and employment, and to strengthen and diversify exports. Closely related
to these objectives would be the proposed Bank lending for transport infrastruc-
ture. In this context, we are assisting the Government in preparing a rural
and feeder roads project to integrate the more backward areas of the country
into the modern economy. Other loans under preparation for highways, ports
and railroads are aimed at helping Colombia handle larger volumes of non-
traditional exports and the imported inputs on which the modern sector of
its economy relies for expansion. Finally, a relatively large number of loans
are being prepared in support of the Government's efforts to help the lowest
50% of the Colombian population. The proposed urban development and slum
improvement, rural electrification, land settlement, credit for land reform
beneficiaries and water supply and sewerage projects are principally designed
to improve the standard of living of the poor.
PART III: THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Water Supply and Sewerage Facilities
29.       Colombia's population in mid-1978 was estimated at 25.7 million.
It is now growing at a rate of 2.1% per annum, down from 3.3% in the early
1960's. About 64% of the population lives in urban areas, defined here as
communities with 2,500 people and over. Urban population is growing at a
rate of 4.5%; rural population at about 1%. In contrast with other Latin
American countries of comparable size and development, Colombia has several



- 11 -
large urban centers. Twenty-two cities have more than 100,000 inhabitants
of which eight have more than 300,000. The four largest, Bogota with 3.8
million, Medellin with 1.3 million, Cali with 1.1 million and Barranquilla
with 800,000 account for about a quarter of the country's population. The
rapid population growth, particularly the rapid urbanization, and rising
incomes have created a strong demand for water supply and sewerage services
which the Government is placing high priority to meet (for details see
paragraph 37 below).
30.       Although Colombia compares favorably with other Latin American
countries in the coverage of water supply and sewerage services, one-fourth
of its urban population still does not have direct access to public water
supply and about 40% lack sewerage facilities. Service levels in rural
areas are far lower; 40% of rural families had piped water and only 12% had
sewerage facilities in 1978. Through different programs, the Government is
trying to increase service levels in rural areas as well as to provide other
amenities to discourage rural/urban migration.
Sector Institutions and Investments
31.       The water supply and sewerage sector in Colombia is under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Public Health, in charge of establishing
sectoral policies under the coordination of the National Planning Department
(DNP). Responsibility for implementing those policies is with autonomous
public entities responsible to the Ministry: the Instituto Nacional de
Fomento Municipal/National Institute for Municipal Development (INSFOPAL)
and the Instituto Nacional de Salud/National Institute of Health (INAS).
INSFOPAL supervises and finances regional and municipal water companies in
towns with populations of 2,500 or more. INAS constructs, finances and
operates water supply and sewerage works for communities of up to 2,500
inhabitants. The cities of Bogota, Medellin, Cali and Palmira own independent
companies which construct, operate and maintain water supply and sewerage
facilities. About 36% of the population of Colombia lives in cities with
water supply and sewerage companies under the jurisdiction of INSFOPAL; 38% in
cities under the jurisdiction of INAS; and 26% in Bogota, Medellin, Cali and
Palmira.
32.       INSFOPAL's objective is to promote and assist the orderly develop-
ment of the water supply and sewerage systems, solid waste collection and
disposal services, slaughterhouses and market places. Since 1975, INSFOPAL
has been relinquishing its role of direct operator of water supply and
sewerage companies and is becoming a lending institution specialized in the
development of these companies. It is now responsible for (i) preparing the
public investment program for the sector, (ii) promoting the creation of
new water and sewerage companies and the institutional strengthening of
existing ones; (iii) assisting such companies in the design, construction and
operation of services; (iv) channeling financing to the sector; (v) monitoring
the execution of works; (vi) training utilities personnel; (vii) formulating
design, construction and operational standards; and (viii) commenting on, and
channelling requests for, tariff increases from the water supply and sewerage
companies to the National Tariff Board.



- 12 -
33.       INSFOPAL is managed by a Board chaired by the Minister of Public
Health and composed of five other members appointed by the Government.
INSFOPAL's day-to-day management is delegated to a General Director who
supervises about 57 management personnel, 102 technical staff and 276 admini-
strative and support staff. The General Director is normally replaced every
four years with the change of Government; this usually brings about other
changes in the hierarchy. Generally, the academic background and the work
experience of the staff is below the level required for the institution to
fully discharge its responsibilities; this is partly caused by the relatively
low level salaries allowed by the Government. INSFOPAL's operations have been
handicapped by an accounting system which does not provide timely information,
by not well delineated organizational responsibilities and by poor planning.
INSFOPAL has been allocating funds to the water supply and sewerage companies
on the basis of availability of Government contributions. The flow of these
contributions has been often erratic, subjecting the water supply and sewerage
companies to continuous uncertainties and unnecessary delays in the execution
of works. In the future, the Government intends to maintain a steady flow
of funds to INSFOPAL (see paragraph 52(e) below) and with the measures and
assistance included under the proposed project, strengthen the institution.
34.       Organizationally, there are two types of municipal and regional
utilities under the aegis of INSFOPAL: municipal public enterprises (EPMs)
and regional or municipal sanitary works companies (EMPOSs). EPMs were
created before the EMPOSs structure existed, by a decree of a city's municipal
council and are managed by a Board appointed by the council, and a General
Manager appointed by the Board. In addition to water supply and sewerage
services and solid waste collection and disposal services, they are often in
charge of providing electric power and telecommunications services, slaughter-
houses, marketplaces and solid wastes collection and disposal services. About
41% of the population of Colombia lives in communities under the jurisdiction
of EPMs (15%, if population living in Bogota, Medellin, Cali and Palmira is
excluded). EMPOSs were created based by Government decree in 1975; most
were formerly INSFOPAL subsidiaries (the last two INSFOPAL subsidiaries
are in the process of becoming EMPOSs). EMPOSs provide water supply, sewerage,
solid waste collection and disposal services, slaughterhouses and market-
places. Each EMPOS is managed by a Board composed of the Government of
the department (in regional EMPOSs) or the Mayor of the city (in municipal
EMPOSs), a representative from the Ministry of Health, a delegate of the
municipalities or the users, and a delegate of the regional (or municipal)
development institution. The General Manager is appointed by the Minister of
Health, from a shortlist presented by INSFOPAL. In the EMPOSs, the Government
has tried to combine local participation with the advantages of centralized
planning, financing and technical assistance. About 18% of the population
of Colombia lives in communities served by EMPOSs. As it is in the case of
INSFOPAL, EPMs and EMPOSs suffer from a shortage of qualified personnel, inade-
quate management information systems and lack of planning. INSFOPAL has the
authority to intervene in EPMs and EMPOSs which are not performing adequately.
INSFOPAL has carried out studies for six EMPOSs, recommending changes in
planning, budgeting, accounting, purchasing, information, billing and collec-
tion procedures. Studies for other companies are under way. The proposed
project would assist INSFOPAL in building up EPMs and EMPOSs.



- 13 -
35.       Investment for water supply and sewerage has increased from US$21.6
million equivalent in 1965 to US$55.8 million equivalent in 1975 and is
expected to reach nearly US$100 million equivalent by 1980. It has averaged
about 5.5% of total public sector investment during the past three years.
External assistance to the sector started in 1961; about three quarters of the
funds have come from the Bank, and the remainder from the IDB, USAID and the
Kredistanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW). Investments during the three-year
period 1978-80 are expected to be US$306 million equivalent: US$183 million
by the Bogota, Medellin and Cali municipal companies, US$97 million by INSFOPAL-
financed companies and US$26 million by INAS.
Government Objectives
36.       The Government aims at expanding the coverage and improving the
quality of water supply and sewerage services and at increasing the sector
entities contribution to investment. By 1990, the Government expects to
provide piped water to 90% of the urban population and 80% of the rtLral non-
dispersed population, and sewerage to 80% and 55%, respectively. Investments
are planned to be finlaliced 50% from foreign borrowings, 35% from Governllielt
budgetary contributions and 15% from internal cash generations and local
borrowings. To make the services affordable to low income families,, progres-
sive tariff scales will continue to be used; in rural areas, charges will
continue to be based on the communities' ability to pay. Achievement of the
Government's objectives will depend heavily upon the water supply and sewerage
companies being able to overcome their managerial deficiencies and financial
constraints; the latter largely imposed by the local authorities' reluctance
to adjust tariffs levels to offset rising costs and provide a reasonaable
contribution to investment. As state. earlier, the Government proposes to
strerigt1l-r  INSFOPAL, since it believes that a national institution is the
most effective means of (i) providing managerial, technical and financial
assistance to the large number of water supply and sewerage companies res-
ponsible for investment in the sector, and (ii) ensuring that the operation of
these companies, including the operational an(l technical standards applied and
the level an(l structure of tariffs, is in line with national parameters.
Bank Role in the Sector
37.       Bank involvement in water supply and sewerage has been extensive
and has supported the Government objectives referred to in the previous para-
graph. Noteworthy is the Bank's coritribution to water and sewerage programs
tliaL .1-4st the poor, particularly through components i-n integrated projects.
The proposed loan woul.! be the sixth for sewerage and the ninth for water
supply (excluding loans for integrated projects with water supply and seweragu
omponents).  All told, Bank assistance for water supply and sewerage has
covered all but one of the major cities, nearly all of the medium-sized urban
areas and rtural areas in 14 departments.  Including the proposed loan, total
Bank lending for water sup)l)ly L.ti 3ewerage which commenced only in 1968 would
aqTo,HLi ;:- JS$242.3 million or about 12% of total Bank lending thus far to Colombia
Performance under previous loans has been generally satisfactory. The Project
Performanice Audit Report for Loan 536-CO (Bogota Water Supply Project), the
only one already available for the sector, noted the importance of carefully
evaluating the growthl of demand and per capita consumption, and thle aeg-tive
impact of cost overruns because of inflation. In the preparation of the proposed
project these comments were taken into account.



- 14 -
Performance Under Previous Loans to INSFOPAL
38.       The Bank has made two loans to INSFOPAL for the expansion of water
supply and sewerage services in medium and small size cities (seven cities in
the first one and eight cities in the second). The first loan (860-CO of
October 1972) for US$9.1 million equivalent is 70% disbursed and the second
(1072-CO of January 1975) for US$27 million equivalent is 39% disbursed. 1/
Progress under botth loans h,as heen slower than expected, mainly because there
were delays in the preparation of final designs, insufficient and irregular
budgetary conitributions to INSFOPAL (in large measure C;t]Lau'd by Government's
economic stabilization programs) and slow progress in putting into effecl:
required  tariff increases.  These problems have beern, )r are being, resolved
and works under both loanis are sche1lu' 1    .-- ompletion during the first
quarter of 1981.
3c9,      1rSFOPAL's performance under both loans has be,ri below expectations.
During appraisal of the first project, the Bank, aware of INSFOPAL's organiza-
tional weakness and in view of the urgent need to provide water supply and
sewerage services to the cities included in the project, opted for setting up
a special unit within INSFOPAL to handle project-related matters (bid procure-
ments aspects, construction and financial supervision, loan disbursements, and
technical assistance to the water supply and sewerage companU-is). The special
unit did not receive adequate slupport from the rest of INSFOPAL and performed
p,,orly. In the second project, therefore, the foc-ls was on strengthening
INSFOPAL. This effort was supported by the Government's own recognition that
INSFOPAL had to be converted into an specialized lending institution; a decree
reorganizing INSFOPAL along those lines was issued on December 10, 1975
(paragraph 33). Although INSFOPAL carried out the reorganization, strengthenHliy,
)F the institution has yet to be accomplished mainly because: (a) during the
period following the signing of the second loan and( the reorganization, INSFOPAL
suffered from inadequate and highly political management which overextended
the institution financially and resulted in the loss of qualified technical
personnel, and (b) the technical and financial capabilities of the wal:er supply
and sewerage companies continued to slide because of INSFOPAL's declining
ability to provide adequate technical assistance and to live up to its finan-
cial commitments. An objective of the proposed project, therefore, is to
assist INSFOPAL in overcoming these deficiencies. In so aiming the Bank
rec(cr1izes the difficulties involved but it is encomuraged by recent steps
ta*ken by the Government toward the strengthening of institutions in the
water supply and sewerage sector. This, together with the corrective measures
included under tlhe proposed project, which are also conditions of a recent
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) loan to INSFOPAL, and INSFOPAI's own
desire to improve, should make it possible to reach this project objective.
1/   As of April 30, 1979.



- 15 -
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
40.       In late 1975, the Government approached the Bank requesting assis-
tance for the proposed project. The Bank worked closely with INSFOPAL in
project formulation but awaited the Government deciding on ways to strengthen
INSFOPAL and the finances of the sector before appraisal. The project was
appraised in July-August 1978. A report entitled "Colombia - Third Medium and
Small Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project," No. 2275a-CO, dated
May 18, 1979 is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
A supplementary data sheet is presented in Annex III. Negotiations were held
in Washington on May 7-9, 1979. The Government delegation was headed by
Colombia's Ambassador to the USA, Mr. V. Barco; INSFOPAL delegation was headed
by its General Director, Mr. A. Araujo.
41.       The project aims at improving health and living conditions in medium
and small size cities by (a) providing potable water through house connections
to about 472,000 people in 19 cities by 1983; (b) providing sewerage services
to approximately 654,000 people in 14 cities by 1983; (c) improving and expand-
ing water production and transmission facilities to meet forecast demand
through 1990; (d) reducing unaccounted for water; and (e) carrying out urgently
needed works to prevent undesirable sewerage discharges into open storm drains
and to protect water supply sources from further contamination. The project
would also support the Government's objective of strengthening INSFOPAL and of
converting the EPMs and EMPOSs into well-run public utilities.
Project Description
42.       The project consists of the following:
(a) the construction of new, or optimization of existing, water
treatment facilities for the cities of Cartagena, Neiva,
Monteria, Riohacha, Girardot, Copacabana, Rio Negro, Calarca,
Aguachica, Magangue, Codazzi, Pamplona, Chiquinquira, and
Espinal;
(b) the construction of pumping and transmission facilities connect-
ing the water production facilities of the city of Barranquilla
to the distribution system of the city of Soledad;
(c) the improvement of water intakes, pumping stations, and raw water
transmission lines in 14 cities;
(d) the construction of additional water storage in 16 cities with
an aggregate capacity of about 60,000 cubic meters;
(e) the extension of water distribution networks in 19 cities, by
about 420 km in the aggregate;
(f) the construction of about 80,000 metered house water connections
in 16 cities and the purchase and installation of about 62,000
residential water meters;



- 16 -
(g) the purchase and installation of water production meters;
(h) the construction of sewers in 14 cities, with an aggregate
length of about 400 km;
(i)  the construction of interceptors and outfalls in 11 cities with
an aggregate length of about 80 km;
(j)  the construction of about 110,000 domiciliary sewerage connections;
(k)  the construction of water pumping stations in four cities and
sewerage pumping stations in three cities;
(1) the construction of stabilization ponds for sewerage treatment
in the city of Sabanalarga; and
(m) a technical assistance program for:
(i) improvements in the organizational structure and operations
of INSFOPAL using consultants as needed in the areas of
planning, financing, organization, and engineering; and
(ii) strengthening the operational capability of EPMs and EMPOSs
(including the acquisition of office and laboratory
equipment), using the services of consultants under the
supervision of INSFOPAL.
43.       The proposed project, representing about 26% of INSFOPAL investment
program for 1979-83, would support water supply and/or sewerage investments
in 23 cities with between 20,000 to 400,000 inhabitants. The cities have a
combined population of 1.9 million with agriculture and commerce as their main
sources of income; most of them are either departmental or provincial capitals.
About 35% of project investments would be for sewerage works, 20% for distribu-
tion pipes, 17% for water production works, 11% for engineering and administra-
tion and the remainder (17%) for pumping stations, storage tanks, meters,
operation equipment and technical assistance.
44.       The cities were selected based on Government established priorities
in the sector. The following was taken into account to establish priorities:
existing coverage of services, city growth prospects, marginal cost of pro-
viding services, and readiness of the community to partly finance the expansion
of services. Investments in five of the cities would complement those made
under the aforementioned Bank loans to INSFOPAL; investment in 11 cities
would complement investments to be carried out under the first Urban Develop-
ment Project (Loan 1558-CO of April 1978). Other cities, which are not
included under the proposed project because they are financially weaker, are
being or are expected to be financed with soft loans from the IDB or the
Canadian International Development Association (CIDA). In the event that one
of the cities included in the proposed project would not comply, with minimum
performance requirements, new cities could become eligible or cities already
included in the project could obtain additional financing, provided that (i) the
city's net internal contribution to project cost is at least 10%, (ii) the sub-
project rate of return on revalued fixed assets is satisfactory, and (iii) the
proposed engineering works represent the least cost alternative (draft Supple-
mental Letter).



- 17 -
Cost Estimates and Financing
45.       The estimated cost of the project is US$71.9 million equivalent,
of which US$31.0 million equivalent is the estimated foreign exchange compo-
nent. These estimates are based on January 1979 prices and include US$7.6
million for physical contingencies and US$13.7 million for price contingencies.
They were calculated by INSFOPAL with the assistance of consultants, and are
based on costs of work recently carried out by INSFOPAL and the companies,
and further verified by direct inquiries with civil works contracts and
equipment manufactures.
46.       The project would be financed from (i) the proposed US$31.0 million
Bank loan, (ii) a Government budgetary contribution of US$31.7 mill-ion equi-
valent, and (iii) US$9.2 million equivalent from internal cash generation.
The Bank loan would be to INSFOPAL and the proceeds relent on the same terms
to the companies, which would bear the foreign exchange risk. Government
budgetary contribution to INSFOPAL would be relent to the companies for 17
years including four years of grace, at interest of 18% per annum for communi-
ties with populations over 35,000, and at 12% per annum for smaller communities,
as well as in the city of Tumaco, which has a heavy concentration of low income
population; these terms would be subject to periodic review by INSFOPAL and the
Bank (Section 3.03(a)(i) and (ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
47.       INSFOPAL would be responsible that the works under the project be
efficiently and expeditiously carried out; physical execution of the works
would be the direct responsibility of five EPMs serving five cities, and of
fifteen EMPOSs, including two companies in the process of becoming EMPOSs,
serving eighteen cities. INSFOPAL would supervise the execution of the works,
channel Government and Bank financing and provide technical assistance.
Construction would take place in 1980-83, while institutional strengthening
would start in mid-1979 (see paragraphs 50 through 59 below). INSFOPAL would
enter into project agreements with the companies spelling out administrative,
technical and financial conditions under which the works would be carried out.
The signing of each agreement would be a condition of disbursement for the
works under each company.
48.       Project preparation for the project works is well advanced.  Feasi-
bility studies for each subproject were carried out by INSFOPAL with the
assistance of consultants, and least cost solutions have been identified.
Most companies have qualified consultants already working in the preparation
of the final designs and the services of other consultants would be used for
project supervision. Consultants would also be retained for the provision of
other technical assistance to INSFOPAL and to the water supply and sewerage
companies under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (Sections 3.01(b);
3.03(a)(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement). Total consultant services under the
project would be 2,878 man-months at US$2,000 a month for those providing
assistance to EPMs and EMPOs and US$4,000 a month for those providing assistance
to INSFOPAL.
Institutional Strengthening
49.       Actions have already been taken or would be taken during execution
of the proposed project, to strengthen managerially and financially INSFOPAL,
the EPMs and the EMPOSs.



- 18 -
50.       INSFOPAL.  To strengthen its organizational structure, accounting
procedures and long-term planning, INSFOPAL has recently created a special unit,
the Institutional Development Unit (UDI). UDI would analyze INSFOPAL's organi-
zation and functions and propose improvements, including personnel reallocation,
training programs and remuneration levels. The UDI would also prepare guide-
lines for budget preparation and control, accrual based accounting and informa-
tion systems for INSFOPAL, EPMs and EMPOSs: and would study the establishment
of a solid waste unit in INSFOPAL. The project includes assistance to the UDI
from full time consultants. INSFOPAL has agreed to give the UDI the responsi-
bilities described herein (Section 3.01(c) and Schedule 5 of the draft Loan
Agreement). INSFOPAL has also agreed to: (a) initiate not later than
December 31, 1979, a training program and to give the Bank an opportunity
to comment, not later than September 30, 1979, on the terms of reference
(Section 3.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement); (b) as a condition of loan
effectiveness, staff an internal auditing section, reporting to the Director
General; and (c) have its financial statements audited annually by auditors
acceptable to the Bank and presented to the Bank not later than April 30 of
the following year (Section 5.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). The recently
created position of Deputy General Director, which is expected to be a career
post, should ensure greater management continuity. The staffing of the IDU
and the appointment of the Deputy General Director are conditions of loan
effectiveness.
51.       To facilitate INSFOPAL's planning functions, the Government has
advised the Bank that it would prepare specific sector policies and objectives,
as part of a National Development Plan. On the basis of these policies and
objectives INSFOPAL would prepare a comprehensive water supply and sewerage
development program for areas under INSFOPAL's jurisdiction and approve it not
later than June 30, 1980 (Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement and Schedule
5 of the Loan Agreement).
52.       INSFOPAL has experienced financial losses from:  (i) the direct
operation of water supply and sewerage services, (ii) charging inadequate fees
for the technical assistance it provides, and (iii) assuming the foreign
exchange risk on loans. In addition, INSFOPAL has made an excessive number
of grants to the water supply and sewerage companies in the form of equity
contributions. After 1979, when INSFOPAL will be fully divested from its
direct operational responsibilities, its revenues will come from interest and
charges for technical assistance. During negotiations agreement was reached
that INSFOPAL finances would be strengthened as follows:
(a) INSFOPAL would on-lend to the water supply/sewerage companies, and
reinvest loan repayments, on adequate terms (paragraph 46 above);
(b) INSFOPAL's equity contributions in the water supply and sewerage
companies, in the past distributed at the discretion of the
General Director, would be made only from specific Government
contributions earmarked for this purpose (Section 4.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement);
(c)  INSFOPAL would not exceed, without the agreement of the Bank,
its 1979-83 investment program by 5% in any one year (Section
5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). The 1979-83 Investment



- 19 -
Program has been reviewed by the Bank and found to be consistent
with forecast sources of funds, after debt service (Annex 6 to
the Loan Agreement);
(d)  INSFOPAL would implement a standard schedule of service and
administration changes sufficient to cover its direct cost
of lending technical services plus administrative overhead
(Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement); and
(e)  The Government would provide INSOFPAL with budgetary contributions
for this project and the two earlier projects in quarterly install-
ments, in accordance with a schedule to be reviewed annually with
the Bank (draft Supplemental Letter).
53.       EPMs and EMPOSs.  As a condition of disbursement for each sub-
project, the Bank would be furnished with a plan, to be acceptable to the
Bank, for the administrative, technical and financial improvement of each
EPM or EMPOS, together with a schedule for the carrying out of such a plan.
The plan would arise from the studies being carried out by INSFOPAL in EPMs
and EMPOSs, including adequate budgets, accrual based accounting, internal
audit and a system to collect basic operational data. INSFOPAL has agreed to
take the necessary measures to cause the EPMs and EMPOSs to: (i) introduce
bookkeeping improvements satisfactory to INSFOPAL and the Bank not later than
October 31, 1979, to permit full review of the origin and application of funds
for each city by type of public service provided, and (ii) employ external
auditors acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02(b) and 3.03(a)(vi)(5) of the
draft Loan Agreement). The EPMs and EMPOSs would rely on local consultants
for technical support to ensure that the civil works meet construction standards
(Section 3.03(a)(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement). EPMs and EMPOS would take
measure to reduce by 1986 unaccounted water supplied to users to 25% (Section
3.03(a)(vi)(10) of the draft Loan Agreement).
54.       The recent financial performance of the EPMs and EMPOSs has been
generally adequate, but often affected by low tariffs. Cross-subsidization
among services is frequent, and occasionally municipal taxes are used to
cover deficits. As part of the efforts to improve the finances of the EPMs
and EMPOSs, during negotiations INSFOPAL has agreed that in companies which
are responsible for more than one city or service, their total revenues from
all cities and services would cover all expenses, working capital requirements
and debt service beginning in 1980 (Section 3.03(a)(viii) of the draft Loan
Agreement), and that companies would refrain from diverting revenues from
water supply and sewerage services from one city or service to another (Sec-
tion 3.03(a)(vi)(2) of the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       Tariff levels and structures are proposed by the EPMs and EMPOSs
and submitted through INSFOPAL to the National Tariff Board for approval.
Substantial tariff increases would be required in most of the cities to
finance their share of investment costs. The Government and INSFOPAL have
agreed, therefore, to the following:
(a) as a condition of disbursement for each sub-project, EPMs
and EMPOSs would raise tariffs for 1979 to levels acceptable
to the Bank;



- 20 -
(b)  financial and tariff studies, to be carried out under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank and to be completed by
October 31, 1979, would recommend appropriate tariff levels
taking into account (i) revision of property assessments;
(ii) progressivity of tariffs; (iii) cross subsidies between
industrial and commercial users, and residential areas;
(iv) sewerage charges in accordance with investment costs
(Section 3.02 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(c)  Beginning in 1980, tariff structures would also be based on
financial viability criteria pertaining to each EPMs/EMPOS so
that operating revenues would cover operating expenses and
debt service as well as a reasonable portion of investments
(Section 3.02(c)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(d)  an inventory of assets in operation for the studies referred
to in (b) above would be prepared prior to September 30, 1979
and revalued annually (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement); and
(e)  upon completion of these studies, specific annual rates of
return for each city would be agreed upon and included in each
subsidiary loan agreement between INSFOPAL and each company
(Section 3.02(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       In the city of Monteria tariff increases to meet cash requirements
are too large to be implemented during the project period. Therefore, before
approval of the project loan agreement for that city, the Bank would be given
satisfactory evidence that any cash shortfall would be covered by additional
municipal taxes or additional borrowings under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank (Section 3.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The cities of
Ibague and Cartago would partly finance their subproject with betterment
levies. Consequently,as a condition of disbursement, the Bank would receive
evidence that satisfactory arrangements have been made to collect these levies.
As a condition of disbursement for the city of Chiquinquira, evidence would be
submitted to the Bank that water supply and sewerage facilities, now owned by
the municipality, have been transferred to the EMPOS.
57.       Four cities which received financing under the earlier Bank loans
to INSFOPAL, are expected to comply with covenanted rates of return for 1979.
One city, Neiva, in accordance with its reduced financial requirements, is
expected to achieve a 2% rate of return in 1979 instead of the covenanted
6%. From 1980 onwards, all five cities would be required to meet the rates
of return to be agreed for the proposed prbject (para 56(e)).
58.       INSFOPAL has agreed to provide the Bank annually, with financial
projections and cash flows for at least five years for each company and, every
six months, with a financial report containing detailed information and comments
on the compliance by the companies with the financial viability criteria to
monitor financial performance (Section 3.05(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
59.       All contracts would be awarded through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines, except for civil works



- 21 -
contracts under US$150,000, not exceeding an aggregate of US$2.5 million equiva-
lent, which would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank. Foreign suppliers are expected to win most
contracts for equipment and pumps, while local manufacturers and contractors
those for pipes and civil works.
60.       The proposed loan would be disbursed as follows:
(a) civil works, 37% of total expenditures;
(b) equipment, other than laboratory and office equipment,
materials and supplies, 100% of foreign expenditures or 37%
of local expenditures;
(c) laboratory and office equipment, 100% of foreign expenditures
or 30% of local expenditures;
(d) consulting services, 100% of foreign expenditures or 40% of
local expenditures.
In order that the institutional strengthening proceed without delay, retro-
active financing of up to US$150,000 for expenditures incurred after
February 1, 1979 for consultant services would be provided under the loan.
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed before December 31, 1983.
Environmental Aspects
61.       There would be no adverse effects on the environment stemnming
from the project. INSFOPAL has agreed to carry out an evaluation of the
environmental impact of sewerage discharged by the city of Soledad on the
water sources for the city of Barranquilla before final design of sewerage
works (Section 3.03(a)(xii) of the draft Loan Agreement and 2.02(b) of the
Guarantee Agreement). In addition, during negotiations INSFOPAL has agreed
to give the Bank an opportunity to comment on a study of pollution in the
Cartagena Bay now being carried out prior to issuing final recommendations
(Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
62.       The proposed project would improve living and health conditions
in 23 small and medium size cities. About 473,000 people would benefit
directly from the water supply component, 654,000 from the sewerage component.
It is estimated that about 47% of the population to be supplied with water and
about 50% of that to receive sewerage services are below the poverty line.
The proposed project would also support the Government's objective of streng-
thening the institutions in the sector.
63.       The project works are least cost alternatives and where this is not
yet evident (the cities of Dos Quebradas and Soledad) detailed quantitative
analysis will be undertaken. Incremental rates of return (IRR) were estimated
for water supply/sewerage subprojects using as a proxy tariff levels based on
tariffs projected in accordance with financial covenants (no IRR was estimated
for subprojects which include sewerage only). On this basis, the IRR of sub-
projects which represent 85% of total project costs is 13% (two percentage



- 22 -
above the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Colombia). Benefits such
as improvements in public health, labor productivity and environment were
either excluded or partially reflected in the level of tariffs projected.
64.       Project works are conventional in design and well within the capa-
bility of local contractors. The project presents higher than usual risks in
that it may not be implemented in the intended period, if INSFOPAL, the EPMs
and the EMPOSs do not achieve the forecast institutional and financial improve-
ments in a short time span. It is expected, however, that the Government's
commitment to strengthening the entities in the sector and close supervision
by the Bank should ensure that the project is carried out as scheduled.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and INSFOPAL, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank, and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
66.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. A special condition of effectiveness is that INSFOPAL appoints the staff
of the UPD the Deputy General Director, and staff the internal auditing
section. Conditions of disbursement for each project beneficiary city would
be (a) that INSFOPAL has presented to the Bank a plan for the improvement of
the respective EPM or EMPOS; (b) that INSFOPAL has signed with the respective
EPM or EMPOS a project loan agreement; (c) that for the cities of Ibague and
Cartago INSFOPAL has presented to the Bank satisfactory evidence that better-
ment levies would be collected on the amounts required; (d) that EPMs and
EMPOSs have put into effect the tariff increases required in 1979; and (e)
that water supply and sewerage facilities for the city of Chiquinquira have
been transferred to the correspondent EMPOS.
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 30, 1979



- 23 -                                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROIPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
COLOMBIA                                                 /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            1138.9                                                    SAME         SAME      NEXT HICHER
AGRICULTURAL      224.8                                 MOST RECEST      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
fNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   220.0       370.0      710.0           1066.7      867.2       1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      491.0        606.0     671.0            911.1       578.3       1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL. STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         15.4         20.6      25.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 53.0 /f       60.3       64.3             57.9       46.2         52. 2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        14.0         18.0       22.0             25.6       50.8         27.5
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      71.0         93.0      111.0             77.6       93.3        116.4
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          46.6         46.6      44.1              42.0       42.9         34.8
15-64 YRS.                          50.4         50.4      52.7             52.2        53.5        56.0
b5 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0          3.0        3.2              3.7        3.5          5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.9          2.9        2.8              2.7        2.5          I.b
[IRBAN                              b.0 /        5.5 /h    4.5               4.3        4.7          3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       46.1 /i     44.3 /i   40.6 /i           35.8       37.8         27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       14.7        11.0        8.8              9.1       10.8          9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2         3.2        3.1              2.6        2.5          1 ,9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       115.4      177.3
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            .,       31.0             15.1       20.0         19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              98.0        100.0      109.1            102.1      107.3        103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    94.0         92.0       94.0            103.9      105.3        110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           50.0         51.0       47.0            60.3        63.0         77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        28.0         29.0      24.0             26.7        21.7         22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       16.3          ..       12.1              8.7        8.0          1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.7          58.5       60.9             62.6       57.2         6'J.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            100.0 /;     70.0       97.1             56.9       53.9         38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         63.0       64.0             60.7       56.8         67.7
URBAN                                ..         88.0       86.0             78.0       79.0         83.5
RURAL                                ..         28.0       33.0             34.9       31.8         41.5
ACCESS To EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         47.0       48.0            61.1        30.9         70.3
URBAN                                ..         75.0       73.0             80.3       45.4         90.7
RURAL                                 ''         8.0       13.0             25.4       16.1         38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2400.0       2170.0    21801.0           1899.3     2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      3740.0       2040.0    1920.0            1220.1     1462.0        849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             580.0        510.0      530.0            422.3      493.9        275.4
URBAN                                ..           ..      320.0            258.2      229.6        1.!9.9
RURAL                                ..           ..    9670.0           2281.6      2947.9        965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        23.0       25.0             25.6       22.1         18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..         b.0        5.9              5.2        5.2          3.9
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..               ..        5.0
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..               ..        5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..              2.0        2.0          0.9
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..              2.1         1.5         0.8
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..              2.7        2.7          1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              47.0 /f        ..         ..             51.2       64.1         59.2
URBAN                              83.0 If        ..         ..             77.3       67.8         78.0
RURAL                               8.0 If        ..         ..             12.8       34.1         12.5



- 24 -                                     AN  EXI
Page 2 of 5
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
COLOMBIA                                                  /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 77.0         98.0      105.0             103.5        99.8         97.6
FEMALE                77.0        100.0      108.0             102.9        93.3         87.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  12.0         23.0       36.0              37.2        33.8         47.8
FEMALE                11.0         22.0       36.0              37.9        29.8         42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 31.0 /k        21.0       17.0              14.7        12.8         22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.0         38.0       33.0              32.8        34.9         25.4
SECONDARY                           11.0          17.0      19.10             17.8        22.2         24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          63.0         73.0       81.0             74.9        71.8         96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            7.0         11.0       15.0             26.9        12.4         32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         139.0        105.0      117.0             173.5       104.5        201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          11.0         38.0         ..              69.4        28.1         97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    56.0        109.0      69.0              72.8        45.2         70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..        6.8              4.3         4.6          4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       5100.0 /f   6200.0    6700.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    18.9         24.6       24.6              21.4        25.7         17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               47.0 /f      39.0          ..             37.8        46.2         38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.2         21.0         ..
PARTICIPATION gATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  30.6         29 . 7     29.7             30.8        33.8         33.7
MALE                                   49.8         44.9       44.7             47.2        48.1         50.8
FEMALE                                 11.6         14.6       14.6             13.2        17.3         12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.8          1.6        1.6              1.7         1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.2 /f,l   31.9 /1   27.2                  28.9        23.6         20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67.7 /f,l   60.1 /1   54.4                  57.7        52.3         47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.1 /f.1    3.5 /1    5.2                   3.2         4.3          3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.8 /f,l   10.1 /1   14.3                  10.7        13.1         13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..          ..            251.9       191.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..      145.0             200.6       193.1        157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      154.0             403.1       319.8        448.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..      153.0             258.0       197.7        313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       24.0              24.8        19.8         23.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..       55.0              65.2        35.1         54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extrene
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Intermediate Middle Income (5551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper
Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1964;  /g  1951-64;  /h  1964-70;  /i  Official estimates
based on registration data show crude birth rate for 1960 as 39.0, average 1961-70 as 36.0 and average
1971-76 as 31.0;  J   Registered only;  /k  Inclades teacher-training at the third level;  /1  Economically
active population.
September, 1978



- 25 -
ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS O7 SOCIAL INDICATORS                              Page   3   of   5
b'L&: The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted gometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator end the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators dspends on ayailability of data and is not uniform. Due to) lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters cnd indicators of access to water end excrete disposal, houaisg, income distribution sd poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of eatrme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. k.)                                                                Population per hospital bed - total, urban. and rural - Population (tota1,
Total - Total surface area comprising lend ares and inland wters.                            urben, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital bade
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                    available in public end private general and specialized hospital and re-
or pemanently for crops, pastures, market end kitchen gardens or to                       habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                               at leat one physician.  Establishtmnts providing principally cuotodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and nedi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                     cal centers not permansntly etaffed by a physician (but by a medical as
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                                provide a limited renge of medical facilities.
Admissions per hoepital bed - Total number of edmiasions to or dlachargoo
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                       fro  hospitals divided by the  number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Averaee silo  of household (persons oar houP euold) - tctal, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population. mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                      and their main meals.   A boarder or lodger may or nay not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                             the household for statistIcal purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                     Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries,                                                                  ber of persons per room  in all, urb-n, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings emolude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and tural -
Per  q. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Conventional dwellings with eleCtricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 yeara), working-age
(15-64 years). and retired  (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                     Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level as percentages of respectively pritary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjunted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live birth. per thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal ado-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      ration enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for msat recent estimate,                       above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                     tion requires or least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and fico-year average ending in 1975 for ms.t recent estimate,                             ides general vocational, or teacher training inst-uctions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bhar                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence  cocursec are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                         excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                    Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
FPeily planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                          or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled it
planning program,                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by oumbern of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                          sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                 Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group,                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - lndex number of per                     Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cots comprise actor cars
capIta annual production of all food cosmiudities.                                      seating less than eight persons; eacludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                   vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                 broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; encluden unlice-sed
exports, and changes in stock.  Nat supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                receivers in countries and in years when registrrtion of radio acts vso  in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                    effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since soot ccuntrieo
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering enviroumental temperature, body                    TV receivers (par thousand population) - TV receivers for broad..ct to genera
weights, ago and sen distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand population; excludes unlicensrd TV receivers iTcoun-
cent for waste at household level,                                                        tries and in years when registration of TV sets W.IYi  effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                    Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the overage circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                      tier of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                    cation devoted primarily to recording general news.   It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 gams of total protein par day and 20 gr-ms                      be "daily" if it appears at least four tines a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein                Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                     sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grass of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                       units.
PAl in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                EsPLOYiMNT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                      Total labor force (thousands) - EcPoomically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-i) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per theus-                   forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, studnts, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                                tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTi                                                                                    Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, harting end tishing
Life eapectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                          as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, sanuf-cturiug and
and 19751                                                                                 electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Participatisn rate (percent) - total, amle.,  nd female - Total, male, sad
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                 female labor force as percentages of their respertie poplaitios.
Access inosafs water (Percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                    These are ILOs adjusted participation rates refl-ectin   c.-sec
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable a0000. to                      otrrcrtre of the population.  and iong tine trecd
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   Efonomic dependency ratio - Ratio of population undor 15 ond o5 and cr000
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpnst located not sore                      INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                    Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richert 5
sonable access of that house   In rural areas reasonable access would                     percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 pecr-ot, and po-ront 40 pertent
imply that the housewife or members of the househbld do not have to                       of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to eosreta disposal (oercent of population) - total, urban, and                   Estimated absolute poverty income level (uSS per capsita) -urbn and  orual -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by escreta                        Absolute poverty income level is that income lesel below which a cdiI
disposal as percentages of their respective populatios.  ERcreta                          nutritionally adequate diet plus essential son-food requir.eoonn  is  sot
disypoal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                         affordable.
treatment, of human eacreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                     Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per cpl2ia) - burba  and cural -
or the use of pit prinios and similar installations                                       Relative poverty income level is that income lev,el lass than son-third
Pcpulation per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                        per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified ftco  a redical school at university level.                       Ustinated population below poverty income level (percest) - urban and rural
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                              Percent of population (urban and rural) who ccc eith-e 'abs-lcti  pccv" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                         "relative punr" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Eo-nomic and Sociol Iota 0iviscon
iconomic Analysfi and Projectiuns iccactoec



- 26 -
EDNiIC D69VELM1T DATA                                                           IA.    h 4 of S P.".
(I Miliso.s of DS Dollars)
Notya9                                 IstleSted               Projected                 Aoeraaeoopo.alAGoq.,hOaoa.                     As . rceno ...  DP
A96-_9          1975             1976            1977            1978             1979            1983        (1967-69-74    197 9-78      1979-83       1975          1978           1993
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                                                1976  prices atod Eschsasi Rates
-Gesoi        - (rodOt           9.660          14,567          15,236          15,971           17,249          18,391          13,960            1.5           6.4          6.d         100.0        100.0          100.0
,.sios foooTrcso  of Trado  '1  ~~~~   ~~-751  -699           -                 697             422              78             -19--4.8                                                             2.
ocosr n3 Do_ Tilsmt oof 7ra8 968,909                   160             15.236          16,668               21         18,469           23,815            0.4           7.0          6,           95.1        102.4          L3.4
lopOst 'locl. 6F5)                      1.491          2,047           0,302            2,410           2,802           3,187           4,259             7.5         11.9          7.1          14.1         Is .            12.4
01170801  lEts). NFS) (Iqp. Capacity) -1.419         -2.29 7         -  782 7822-3 0.9 -3.3368                        -I.138           -3.769            6.3         10.0          4.8          15.8         1.5             153,
7s17005a Oso                    ~~~          ~~~~     ~      ~~~~~72  - 250  -480  -681       -486               49             464              -                         -            1. 7         2.08           21
csoDouplloo Ospsndlyscsl                7.320         10,908           1 ,57           11,580          13,309          14,216           181,20            6 5          7.2          6.0           74.9         71.2 f2.3
loytoslsool Ooooodltooss CInod.
5tosks)                               1,661          2,740           3,177            3,417           3,876           4,302            5,959           11.7         10.3          8.5          18.8         22.5            24.9
"osyi,Ss>                              ,0            2,0              3,57            4,18            4,96I2           4,253           949               11.                       .0           2.           25.             22.
flocral SoacN                           1,509          2,0294           3,3A99         4381 4d3d          2036          4,084           354193           l1.l         11.2          62          129.4          24.4           21 .7
f8080TA8IISE ThADE                                                               ooo,al Dots so Osotass  Prloss                                                                                     AassoPretoi 760010
CopItol 5a oods                         790            503             671              827           1,281           1,464           2,625            10.4         38.2         15.1         40.9          47.4           06 
looscoadiols Goods (tool. FoESlo        Z54            409              733            79742            8759          1,0253          1,7802           21 A  7         D         i6.4  9.5  15.1  42.7      3 
FDs-1  sod Dolad   a ala                                15              29              194             25I3            434              72                        470              
)(TTOOns     Ph dis AOIoT.9(C90II 61                   218              214           _335              291             285              399           18.3         16.6          8.8         15.           100              7.1
Total feaoshacdloals,poOy.  3010)  t08     1 ,429          1 ,747           2,128           27704           5,0238          5,611            '6.4         24.41        I4.         iIT 10.0                     100
Off WhTyb. Ploary Orodooyy              489          1,399           1,874            2,415           2,892           2.623            3,728           14. 5        23.4          8.2      . 01             86.5           73.1
00 No1ch~ ToTTee                       (341)          3764)         (1.292)          (1,7601         12,084)         (11771)         (2.044)          111.71       (27.3)        13.61       (A4.3)        (63.27 443.46
sooufatotred Goods                      117            324             381              381             446             505              986           22.9          8.2         18,2         108.          13.5           20.9
Total   __rc_,acdls 8toport  (008)      606          1,717           2,255            2,796           3,298          TIh              4,714            16. 2        70.9         10.8        100.0           00.3         100.0
Mec-hatdlte Tads Il - odys
Et7or1 FrIst Itday                       21.2           73.9           10.G1            141.4           135.0           129.0           154.7
lopocy F21se Today                       34.0           95.8           100.0            109.6           110.1           125.9            161.0
Oetos of toads lodto                     62,3           77.1           100.13           129.0           114.3           102.5            96.1
dl. 00060 ADD86 *Y   o 5877   (Factoc Cost)                A=nua3 Data at 1976 -  Prlse  sod  tochantia  Rates                                               Ayspa8o  Dyyal  Oryvty  Dates           As Pero--t of Total
TofaRIt.e                                           13923 4536      14,022           14,076          63,982          16,932          22,027             5.1          6.5          6.0        120.0         00.0           1400.0
0D8L10  27IN1388G0                                                 Atosl Data at Current  Fricsa_                                                                                                     As  Fasosot of GDP
Ostyosal Ooyeroaaort)
Corrart tecelpys                     413           1,502           1,670            13,050          2,549           3,335           5,000            20.3         23.5         10.7         10.3          10.7           10.0
Coersot  topatdilooee                 262            702              751             831           1,197           1,732           2,314            16.1         21.5          7.3          4.8           4,0            5.0
toOgeraca   ESaLIage                  151            800             919            1,129           1,439           1,623           2,686            2y.2         25.1         19.8          5.5           6.D            5.8
TtSs8 Publc yactoc yacloat            454            167             -31              -80             189              95            -155              -            _            -           1.1
PySlIc Sactoc Itorstasco             612             917           1,135           1,123            1,836           2,013           3,278            6.6         20.1          13,1          6.3           6..            7.1
380E0308  1ND1CAT0E3                                     1969-70           1797-78        1979-83
1t0a055 for peoDod Sbooo)
oAvsase 1000 (Sate0 or Goose IloToIstic
Iyoest,eont, labs13 POe Tear)                        4.25            3.60           3,18
loport tlasylotty                                      1.28             1.09           1.19
8tsrglral OoAesyslc  Asolage Oaoe                      13.20            0.33           0.20
tiarDIsal sallotal SAolage Ocos                        0.14             3.40           7,20
44000  00820 AE91  000PU0 fRR  608228                                Total Lqbor  soreDTl po Oe N Fr RL2  SETO  1NVST0T9D                                                                          Na 2  of Toael
It F81IDo1s                  0 of Toosl              Otoath  Oats                                         F0GEAM  ANs D508                                5 t'.            Krs8
"Ig",-  ,,,                            I                                                  I~~~~~173 194  97  9847                                                                     0996-                 197
_rlco7ly1r6 2.427                                     2,057         47.3            30.2           -1.9                                              401l 0l1697 28.9                                                    26.5
lydosfcy                                0,958          1.212         18,7           17,8             2.7                                              OoOosyros7yd  0din                              5.5                 22.8
Seniore                                 1,749          3,542         34. 0           32,0            8.2                                              Pare3r552.
Total                                   5.134          6.817        170,0          100,        32                                                     Ochropr adCenitn                               124.5                13.75
Valor Added per  Dorket (1976 PrIces  aDd  Osoysoss E tes)                                                 Tosal EpePedltorrs                              18.7                15.60
Is V21 Dollars                  7T of Navraas              Grkwh   Rats
SELECEDIICAT1884                                1973           19h4-73                                            OFl09 7lAI
lydosoco                            1,837          1,3503           13b5,0         1478,04           579                                              Etocroys Iources                               12. 5951630
ecys                                1.730.4                         127.3           9.0            -1.2                                               cer 2d.8 10.6
Total                               1,359          1,717            100 0          108.0             7.6                                              Toye01 dnasIiog                               10 02                100.0
April 2, 1979



*. 6 .....6.                           I 16*      '     I6   909-9                       17000--966oo
'0  -                                                             000                    66666                  000                      0'666
0  9'  60  66  0,             p6~~~~~~~~06q0.~~~~                                                                                       006600609696000000W   '96096  00066~~~~~~~~~z .
06096006000690       9066                                            0                      00                       '66ST06T.6-
00060600660000  0.0               006                    09                      009 zl
0 -  0 C                 69~~~=                      000006                 66                      66                     6                      26                             960006
Tl-                                      -jF-                     Tl-0096060066000  0  06            0600000966
600606960  1600060066     66            6        6060                   060                     600                             096000666
,10960060660000              69LZ                                          '



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1979)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                             Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans and credits                                724.2      23.5 /1   --
680     1970  Colombia                          Roads             32.0                2.8
681     1970  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                52.3                 .2
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                        Water Supply       2.0                 .3
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply      88.0               6.6
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation         2.2               1.0
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       9.1               2.7
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                56.0                9.0
903     1973  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   60.0                  .8
920     1973  Colombia                          Education         21.2               12.0
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales          Railways          25.0                 .7
971     1974  Colombia                          Pre-Investment
Studies          8.0               3.5
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply      27.0              16.6
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones             Communications   15.0                 1.2
1118    1975  Colombia                          Rural Settlement 19.5               10.9
1163    1975  Colombia                          Agriculture       21.0               17.1
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   80.0               26.7
1352    1977  Colombia                          Rural Dev.        52.0              45.7
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica             Agricultural Cr. 64.0               44.7
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de               Communications   60.0               59.9
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   15.0               11.3
1471    1977  Colombia                          Highways          90.0              90.0
1487    1978  Colombia                          Nutrition         25.0              24.3
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply         13.8              13.8
1558    1978  Colombia                          Urban Develop
ment            24.8              24.8
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0             126.0
1583    1978  Colombia                          Power             50.0              50.0



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1979) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial            Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena         Export          15.0              14.9
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.  100.0               99.7
1624 /2 1979  Colombia                          Airports          61.0              61.0
1628 /2 1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power             84.0     _ _    84.0
TOTAL                                           2,023.1      23.5
Of which has been repaid                          402.4       1.7
Total now outstanding                           1,620.7      21.8
Amount sold                         49.9
Of which has been repaid            22.9           27.0
TOTAL NOW HELD BY BANK AND IDA                  1,593.7      21.8
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                                   871.9
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
/2   Not yet effective.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1979)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                    Business          Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board       0.50      -       0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products   1.99   0.08         2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.          Metal cans        0.70      -       0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture  0.08   0.09         0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical
equipment      0.50       -      0.50
1962       Corporacion Financiera             Development
Colombiana                        financing          -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera             Development          -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de             Textiles          1.98   0.15       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de          Development
Caldas                            financing          -   0.81       0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.           Steel forging        -   1.27       1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de             Warehousing       1.00      -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                 Livestock         1.00   0.58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.             Textiles         5.00   2.60        7.61
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de          Tourism              -   0.01       0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del         Development          -   0.45       0.45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del         Development          -   0.43       0.43
Valle                             financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de            Tourism          0.23   0.11        0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                  Tourism          0.80   0.25        1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de          Housing              -   0.46       0.46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.              Cement            1.50      -       1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.          Cement            3.60      -       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                         Mining            6.00      -       6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities       13.00 > 2.00       15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material       2.43       -      2.43
Total Gross Commitments                            40.31  13.35      53.66
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            27.48   8.24       35.72
Total commitments now held by IFC                  12.83   5.11      17.94
Total undisbursed                                    -       -         -



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
1.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; US$32 million, June 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:    original - November 30, 1974
current - November 30, 1980
The largest component of the project, the paving program, has
experienced considerable cost increases and delays. As of this writing,
six sections in the program are still under construction, requiring about
190 km of paving. Project completion is now expected for end-1980. The other
components of the project were completed with much less delay. The new
Minister of Public Works has promised action to complete the program. As of
March 31, 1979, US$29.2 million (91% of the total) had been disbursed.
2.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May 1971.
Effective date: December 29, 1971
Closing Date:    original - March 1, 1975
current - December 31, 1979
As of March 31, 1979, about 85% of the loan amount was disbursed.
The original project works were completed at lower cost than originally esti-
mated. The savings in the loan of about US$450,000 are being used to finance
supplementary sewerage works which were already identified during project
appraisal.
3.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1978
current - December 31, 1980
All works are progressing satisfactorily and expected to be completed
by the end of 1980. Completion of the Chuza-Ventana tunnel section, however, is
expected to be completed by mid-1981. Disbursements up to March 31, 1979,
amounted to about 93% of the loan amount.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
4.   Ln No. 849 Irrigation (Atlantico II); US$5 million, June 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    March 31, 1978
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million were cancelled
in February 1977. Work is continuing on additional feeder roads, tertiary
canal drains, waterfronts, land clearing, subsoiling and leveling. Two
contractors defaulted delaying work on the main drainage canal though a new
contract was recently signed. Settlement of farmers within the project areas
and the provision of technical assistance and farm credit have been making
inadequate progress. The closing date would be extended once the Government
provides appropriate assurances that the above delays and problems will be
resolved.
5.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1980
As of March 31, 1979, about 70% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but progress has
since improved. Delay in receiving budgetary funds as a result of the
Government's economic stabilization measures also slowed down project execution.
INSFOPAL has prepared a new implementation program for each city and thus
should accelerate completon of works.
6.   Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - December 31, 1979
The progress of the work has been generally satisfactory except for
delays in the resettlement of El Penol and Guatape villages because of the
villagers' reluctance to move into the new cities. This problem is now re-
solved and filling of the Santa Rita reservoir was carried out in May 1978,
three years behind schedule. The revised project cost is substantially above
appraisal estimate, mainly occasioned by higher cost by the civil works. The
Borrower experienced financial problems but, since the start of 1978, adopted
substantial tariff increases and has been able to overcome them. Project
completion is now expected for June 1979. As of January 31, 1979, US$47.0
million or 84% of the Loan amount had been disbursed.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
7.   Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, May 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - June 30, 1979
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are expected tc be
completed within the next few months. As of March 31, 1979, only US$0.8
million equivalent remained undisbursed.
8. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 1973.
Effective date: January 10, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1981
The execution of the project had been suspended in mid-1975 pending
redefinition of sector priorities by the Government. Project execut:Lon resumed
in 1977 but suffered continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government submitted
a proposal to reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of
the Loan. However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978,
retracted the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as originally
conceived. Project execution is expected to proceed normally and total
project cost is expected to remain close to the appraisal estimate.
9.   Ln. No. 926 Sixth Railway Project:  US$25 million, August 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing date:  original - June 30, 1976
current - August 31, 1979
The freight traffic in ton-km has increased by 6% in 1978 over 1977,
whereas pass-km of passenger traffic is likely to show a decrease of about 12%
due to the discontinuance of several uneconomic passenger train services.
Freight tariffs increased by 25% in 1979; passenger fares are expected to
increase by 25% shortly. CNR's operating ratio improved to 122.0 in 1978 from
147 in 1976. Average long-haul and train load have increased; staff has been
further reduced to 10,895 by September 1978 as against the last appraisal
target of 11,200 in 1976. Locomotive availability has deteriorated to an
all-time low of 55% due to engine failures in certain types of locomotives and
the shortage of urgently required spare parts. At the same time, an acute short-
of cash to buy spare parts, together with high debt service charges and in-
creasing operating costs aggravated the situation. The Government is assisting
the railways financially and is studying corrective measures. As of March 31,
1979 only about US$700,000 of the loan amount remained undisbursed.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
10. Ln No. 971 Preinvestment Studies Project; US$8 million, March 1974.
Effective date: June 27, 1974
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - December 31, 1979
In spite of slow start, commitments are now proceeding at a satis-
factory rate. The Bank has approved 26 sub-projects and all sub-loans are now
underway. As of March 31, 1979, US$4.5 million or 56% of the loan had been
disbursed.
11. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
There were substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective.
The last subloan (Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976.
After a slow start, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in
most cities, although rapid project execution has been affected by the Govern-
ment's economic stabilization measures. Works under this loan are expected to
be completed by March 1980. As of March 31, 1979, US$10.4 million or 39% of
the Loan had been disbursed.
12. Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    Original - December 31, 1978
Current - June 30, 1979
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been awarded, and work
is proceeding satisfactorily. Though many of the project works have been
commissioned and are earning revenue, project completion is not expected until
June 1981 because of slow procurement and delays in building construction. As
of March 31, 1979, only US$1.2 million equivalent or 8% of the Loan remained
undisbursed.
13. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    October 31, 1979
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Project execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (79 km have been
completed). School construction, however, is behind schedule, while the
credit program is lagging as a result of inadequate budgetary flows. As of
March 31, 1979, US$10.9 million or 56% of the loan remained undisbursed.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
14. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project. Implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily, but still behind schedule. As of March 31, 1979, US$3.9
million equivalent of the Loan amount had been disbursed.
15. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1980
The loan is proceeding satisfactorily and is virtually committed.
As of March 31, 1979, about 67% of the Loan had been disbursed.
16. Ln No. 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its third year of implementation and is fully
operational. The core components of credit, technical assistance and training
are exceeding targets and institutional coordination is effective. The
forestry and water supply components have suffered some delays. Administrative
procedures, such as procurement and disbursement, continue to present some
difficulties, but these are much less serious than in the first year. Control
and monitoring of the physical and financial progress of the project is
comprehensive, and a methodology for evaluating the impact of the project
has been prepared. As of March 31, 1979, only US$6.3 million equivalent, or
12%, of the Loan had been disbursed.
17. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, February
1977.
Effective Date: September 6, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981.
Nearly all the funds assigned to medium and large farmers have been
committed. The Borrower has recently taken steps to speed up the commitment
of funds to small farmers which should be fully committed in 1980. Concern



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
over possibilities of diversion and substitution of funds led the Borrower to
substantially increase its end-use supervision. Also, inflation has come
down and interest rates have been recently raised to levels at which real
interest rates are positive. About half of funds for credit to agroindustries
have been committed to 48 subloans.
18. Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$60 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project has been delayed as a result of a series of personnel
changes of the Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procure-
ment of project goods, the planning of cable networks, and design of buildings
to house equipment.
19. Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980.
After initial delays in loan effectiveness due mainly to management
turnover, project implementation has gone smoothly and by March 1979 about
US$7.3 million of Bank funds had been committed. As of March 31, 1979,
US$3.7 million had been disbursed.
22. Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Project comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. The rehabilitation program has slipped
by about 18 months. Preliminary stabilization and drainage works are complete;
contracts for 14 of the 34 construction lots have been signed and some works
have commenced. The maintenance program has slipped 21 months and has yet to
commence. Proposals from consultants to assist MOPT in executing the program
are being evaluated. The vehicle weight control program has experienced
a 9-month delay but progress is now satisfactory. No disbursements have yet
been made but documentation to disburse about US$4.0 million are being
processed by the Ministry of Finance.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
21. Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Significant progress has been achieved in the major components of
health, nutrition education and water supply. Initial delays occurred in two
subsidiary components--home food production and food quality control--but
activities are now underway. Project management and coordination have been
sound, flexible and effective. Management and evaluation systems are operating
effectively.
22.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 1978.
Effective Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Progress in design and tendering is slow and project implementation
has been delayed one year. EMCALI's financial position deteriorated during
the second half of 1978; the recent tariff increase will not be sufficient to
cover the forecast cash deficit in 1979 and the 3% rate of return for water
supply and sewerage covenanted for 1979 may not be reached. EMCALI's manage-
ment is considering the action which should be taken to solve this problem.
23.       Ln. No. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July 1978.
Effective Date: December 1, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
The 1978 changes in Government led to corresponding staff changes in
the executing agency and to slow project start; implementation is now running
about 12 months behind schedule. Work is under way in six out of the 23 cities
and is expected that ten more will come on stream this year.
24.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 1978.
This loan was signed on July 14, 1978, and became effective on
April 5, 1979.
25.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Project works have recently been initiated and are proceeding on
schedule.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
26.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
Project implementation has been delayed because of procurement
problems; now that a number of contracts have been signed, work is expected
to proceed without delay.
27.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
US$100 million, July 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
About US$7 million has already been committed for subproject
financing, and an additional US$30 million is presently being processed.
28.      Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, October 1978.
This loan was signed on December 29, 1978 and is expected to become
effective shortly. Implementation is off to a good start.
29.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
November 14, 1978.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    10 months (from I.D. to Appraisal)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:    INSFOPAL
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:   late 1975
(d)  First mission to review project:  May 8, 1978 (Preappraisal)
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   July 12, 1978
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:         May 9, 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:    September, 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations, agreement was reached on the followirng:
(a) funds from the Bank loan and from Government contributions will
be on-lent on agreed terms (para. 46);
(b) consultants will be hired to assist the beneficiary cities
(para. 48);
(c) the special unit (UDI) in INSFOPAL will carry out tasks to streng-
then INSFOPAL's organizational struccture (para. 50);
(d) prepare a training program and furnish it to the Bank for comments
(para. 50);
(e) INSFOPAL, EPMs and EMPOSs will present the Bank with audited finan-
cial statements four months after the end of the fiscal year
(para. 50);
(f) INSFOPAL would adopt, not later than June 30, 1980, a water supply
and sewerage sector development program for the areas under its
jurisdiction (para. 51);



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(g) Equity contributions would be made only from earmarked
Government budgetary contributions (para. 52);
(h) INSFOPAL would not exceed, without the agreement of the Bank, its
1979-83 investment program by 5% in any one year (para. 52);
(i) INSFOPAL would implement a standard schedule of service charges
(para. 52);
(j) Government will provide quarterly budgetary contributions to
INSFOPAL for the proposed project and the two previous projects
in accordance with an agreed schedule to be reviewed annually
with the Bank (para. 52);
(k) beneficiary cities would reduce unaccounted for water to 25% by
1986 (para. 53);
(1) beneficiary cities will introduce bookkeeping improvements accept-
able to INSFOPAL and employ external auditors acceptable to the
Bank (para. 54);
(m)  beneficiary cities' revenues from all cities they serve and services
they provide will cover all operating and maintenance expenses,
working capital requirements and debt service (para. 54);
(n) beneficiary cities will not divert revenues from water supply and
sewerage services (para. 54);
(o) financial viability criteria for the beneficiary cities will be
applied, including a financial rate of return (para. 55);
(p) financial and tariff studies for the beneficiary cities will be
carried out taking into account agreed criteria (para. 55);
(q) an inventory of assets in operation for each beneficiary city will
be prepared and revalued annually (para. 55);
(r) any cash shortfalls for the city of Monteria will be covered by
loans or additional taxes (para. 56);
(s) adequate progress reports will be presented to the Bank (para. 58);
(t) an evaluation of the impact of sewage discharges in the city of
Barranquilla will be carried out (para. 61); and
(u) the Bank will be given opportunity to comment on the study on the
pollution of the Cartagena Bay (para. 61);



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Conditions of effectiveness will be that INSFOPAL appoints its
Deputy General Director and the staff of the IDU, and staffs an internal
auditing section (paragraph 50).
Conditions of disbursement for each project beneficiary city are:
(a) a subproject loan agreement has been signed (paragraph 66);
(b)  a plan for the institutional improvement of the beneficiary be
submitted by INSOFPAL to the Bank (paragraph 66);
(c) tariffs increases for 1979 have been put into effect (paragraph 55).
Condition of disbursement for the cities of Cartago and Ibague is
that the correspondent EMPOS had been authorized to collect betterment levies
(para. 56); for the city of Chiquinquira that water supply and sewerage
facilities had been transferred to the correspondent EMPOS (paragraphL 56).






IBRD-13931
769-  74.              9-'  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                             OCTOBER 1978
A29     rSOONT                      C0                                                                                              TH AMERICA
...Tic ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~               .  .
SUCRE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MAO DA L E N AN                                    Z U        E L     
0          ~                              9~                                                                         -______CORDOBA
/AANE
ctiotit. 0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ h*,b,r499$~9--W-9-%9fl-9
4,~~~~~~~~~~L SUCARNARE  '-1
'1  'F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
'r               BOGOTAO                                                           DATADE
-4-~ ~ ~ C-                                                                                                                                         4
L C OCO                                                  OOCSNR
N A R   I N 00J(F9-h-   2RGOA   ~                                          9                 V      HAA 
9-) ~~~~~~~QplO    VI                                UP    
P U  T                              MU M             AAr YK 
7./ 
AUA HLLA..M(99-                                                                                GAAI
/99-9  (ON ABV   900M-f
2P'M-.tNEDEI  CDJARA 9NAR-P     
INTENATINAL 309NAR-
9-      C   AOL)LTA                                   ------~~~~~~~~~7  -   ----------



