Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                F1LE  c   PE
Report No. 2275b -CO
COLOMBIA
TH:IRD MEDIUM AND SMALL-SIZE CITIES
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 18, 1979
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =    Peso
US$1.00             =    Col$41.00 (January 1979)
MEASURES
1 mm      =      millimeter        =    0.04 inches
1 cm      =       centimeter       =    0.39 inches
1 m       =      meter             =    3.28 feet
1 km      =       kilometer             0.62 miles
1 1       =       liter            =    0.26 US gallons
1 m3      =       cubic meter      =     264 US gallons
1 m3/sec  =       cubic meter      =   22.82 MGD = million US
per second                   gallons per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACUAS     -      Decentralized Branches of INSFOPAL
CAR       -      Regional Autonomous Corporation of Bogota Plain
CONPES    -      National Council of Economic and Social Planning
CVC       -      Corporation of the Cauca Valley
CVS       -      Corporation of the Sinu and San Jorge Valley
DANE      -      National Administrative Department of Statistics
DNP       -      National Planning Department
ECO       -      External Credit Office of INSFOPAL
EMPOS     -      Regional or Municipal Sanitary Works Company
EPM       -      Municipal Public Company
EXIMBANK  -      U.S. Export Import Bank
FOREC     -      Executing Agencies' Strengthening Program of INSFOPAL
HIMAT     -      Colombian Institute for Hydrology and Land Reclamation
IDB       -      Inter-American Development Bank
INAS      -     National Institute of Health
INDERENA  -     National Institute for Renewable Natural Resources
INSFOPAL  -     National Institute for Municipal Development
UDI       -      Institutional Development Unit
USAID     -      United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.  INTRODUCTION ...................1 
2.   THE SECTOR ......................                                 1
Population   ...............                                I
Water Resources and Their Management  . ............   1
Health Situation .       . ....................................  2:
Sector Organization ...................      .              2
Service Levels and Quality               ...   4
Past Sector Finances.................................       6
Sector Objectives and Programs             .    .    .      6
Sector Investment Priorities              .    .     .      7
Previous Bank Projects                 . . .    8
3.   THE BORROWER ..............................................    8
Introduction .........................................  8
Background ...........................................  9
Organization and Functions               . . .    9
Personnel ............................................  10
Planning .............................................     10
Budgeting ............................................  11
Accounting ...........................................  11
Auditing .............................................  11
Insurance ............................................  12
Review of Previous Loans                ...   12
Evaluation of the Borrower               ...   12
4.   THE BENEFICIARIES .........................................  15
Introduction .........................................  15
Organization .........................................  15
Management and Personnel .............................  16
Accounting ..................................              17
Planning and Budgeting ...............................  17
Audit ..................................                   17
Improvement in Management Systems ....................  17
This report was prepared by Messrs. E. Rodriguez, Engineer; J. Culagovski,
Economist; and A. Guzman, Financial Analyst.  Messrs. C. Fernandez, Finarncial
Analyst, and A. Heron, Financial Analyst, assisted in the preparation of the
report, which was edited by Ms. C. Wi:Lson. The appraisal took place in
July-August 1978.
This document has a restricted distribution and nmay be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contenis may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
5.   POPULATION, SECTOR SERVICES, AND DEMAND
IN THE PROJECT AREA ......................................      18
Location and Development Prospects           .     .       18
Water Resources                    ..                      18
Existing Water Supply and Waste Disposal Systems ....   19
Population Served and Service Levels            . .    19
Population Projections and Demand for Services  ..   20
6.   THE PROJECT ..............................................   21
Introduction               .... ...... .   21
Project Objectives                  ..                    22
Selection Criteria                  ..                    22
Technological Alternatives and Service Standards ....   23
Project Description                 . . .   24
Status of Design                   ..                     25
Cost Estimates                    ..                      25
Project Financing                  ..                      27
Implementation                    ..                      28
Procurement                     ..   28
Disbursement                     ..     29
Water Resources                   ..                       30
Environmental Aspects                . . .    30
7. FINANCIAL ASPECTS                       ..                        31
Introduction                     ..     31
INSFOPAL - Financial Performance           .      .       31
INSFOPAL's Lending Policy ............ ..............  32
INSFOPAL's Financial Projections           .      .       33
Subborrowers' Financial Performance ....... .........  35
Water and Sewerage Tariffs              .        .         36
Proposed Revenue Covenants for the Project-
Beneficiary Cities ................................   36
Projected Finances of the Project-Beneficiary
Cities ............................................   38
Financing Plan ......................................   39
Financial Monitoring and Reporting Requirements .....   40
8.   ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS .............................   41
Introduction ........................................   41
Population Benefitted and Urban Poverty Impact   .....  41
Affordability of Project Services for the Urban Poor   43
Least-Cost Solution .................................   44
Incremental Rates of Return and Marginal Cost .......   44
Project Sensitivity and Risks .......................   45
9.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....        ..............  46



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   Proposed Works
2.   Construction Schedule
3.   Characteristics of Beneficiaries
4.   Cost Estimates
5.   Annual Investments - Schedule of Execution
6.   Estimated Schedule of Cumulative Disbursements
7.   Quarterly Estimates of Government Funds Disbursements
8.   Organization Chart
9.   Terms of Reference for the Institutional Development Unit
10.   Monitoring Indicators
11.   Draft Outline T'erms of Reference for Tariff Studies
12.   Summary of Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
13.   INSFOPAL - Consolidated Statement of Income and Expenses
14.   INSFOPAL - Consolidated Balance Sheet
15.   INSFOPAL - Statement of Flow of Funds
16.   INSFOPAL - Projected Income and Cash Flow Statement
17.   Consolidated Statements of' Income of Empresas Publicas Municipales
18.   Consolidated Balance Sheets of Empresas Publicas Municipales
19.   Statement of Ir.come of EMPOS
20.   Consolidated Balance Sheet:s of EMPOS
21.   Financing Plan for the Construction Period
22.   Comparative Tariff Structure
23.   Projected Avereage Water and Sewerage Tariffs
24.   Incremental Rat:es of Return (%)
25.   Average Increme!ntal Costs and Tariffs by City
26.   Selected Docume!nts and Data Available in Project File
LIST OF TABLES
2.1   Population and Water Supply and Sewerage Coverages
2.2   Planned InvestmLents by Institution for the Period 1978-80
6.1   Summary of Project Costs f'or Each City and for the
Technical Assistance Program
7.1   INSFOPAL:  Summary Stateme!nt of Income and Expenses (1975-77)
7.2   INSFOPAL:  Summary Stateme!nt of Income and Expenses (1978-83)
7.3   Summary Cash Flow Statements (1978-83)
7.4   Financing Plan (1980-83)
8.1   Incremental Population and the Percentage of Urban Poor to be Served
by City
8.2   Affordability of Basic Consumption
LIST OF MAPS
No. 13931 Location of Cit:ies Included in the Project






COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL SIZE CIT]:ES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRiISAL REPORT
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Colombia has requested B3ank financial assistance
for the expansion aind improvement of water supply and sewerage systems in 23
medium and small size cities. Project preparation was carried out by the
Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL) with the assiJs-i:e of the
Bank.  The total cost of the project is estimated at US$71.9 million, and a
Bank loan of US$31.0 million is recommended to cover its foreign exchange
component. The Borrower would be INSFOPAL and the beneficiaries would be
regional or municipal Empresas de Obras Sanitarias (EMPOS--regional or muni-
cipal sanitary works companies) and Empresas Publicas Municipales (EPM--
municipal public companies). The works to be financed are scheduled for con-
struction and completion during the four-year period 1980-83.
2.   THE SECTOR
Population
2.01      The population of Colombia in mid-1978 was estimated to be 25.7
million. It is growing at a rate of 2.1% p.a., 1/ down significantly from
the rate of 3.3% p.a. which prevailed in the early 1960s. Of the total
population, about 61% live in communities of 2,500 inhabitants or more,
defined as urban population for sector purposes. The urban population is
growing at an annual rate of 4.5%, down from 6.0% in the early 1960s. The
rural population (39% of the total) is estimated to be growing at 1.0% p.a.,
halting the trend of negative population growth which occurred during the
1960s. In contrast with other Latin American countries of comparable size and
development, Colombia has several large urban centers: Bogota, its capil:al
city, has about 3.8 million inhabitants; Medellin, 1.3 million; Cali, 1.1
million; and Barranquilla D.8 million, and there are 18 cities with populations
ranging from 0.1 to 0.4 million inhabitants. Recent estimates of the rates of
net migration indicate that the predominantly urban orientation of migration,
although decreasing, conti-iues to be significant. Net inflows have tended to
converge on thc0se cities which have the best employment opportunities, creating
an increasing demand for public services. Table 2.1 details the populatiLon
distribution in Colombia.
Water Resources and their lanagement
2.02      In general, water resources for urban and rural areas are ample.
Surface water sources do not constitute a limiting factor for water supply
for most of the urban concentrations. However, desertic climatic conditions
limit surface water availability in the Guajira region, making it necessary
to resort to groundwater sources which are often at some distance from the
cities. Sewage is dLCscharged into the water bodies without prior treatment.
Although self-purification of the water bodies is enough to cope with present
1/   See note in Table 2.1 (page 5).



- 2 -
pollution loads from most of the cities, the situation is worsening in rivers
downstream from the major cities of Bogota, Medellin, and Cali. The serious-
ness of the situation is now being realized by the authorities, and programs
acf  underway to request industries and municipalities to comply with existing
pollution control legislation.
2.03      Responsibility for managing the multiple uses of water sources in
Colombia is shared by different institutions on the following basis: (a) Plan-
ning: DNP (National Planning Department); (b) Survey, design, and develop-
ment:  HIMAT (Colombian Institute Eor Hydrology and Land Reclamation) created
by Decree No. 132/76, and CVC, CAR, and CVS (regional development institutions
which were given the responsibility of managing water use by Decree Nos.
3130/68, 3/61 and 13/73, respectt-vely); and (c) Administration: INDERENA
(National Institute for Renewable Natural Resources) by Decree No. 133/78, and
CVC, CAR, and CVS. These institutional arrangements date only from 1976 and
has still not been fully implemented. At present, there are no problems with
the allocation of water for domestic consumption which has traditionally been
given the highest priority.
Health Situation
2.04      Diar-heal diseases are still the third cause of death in Colombia 1/
whereas for 23 of 34 other Latin American and Caribbean countries, the disease
is not among the first five causes of deathi. Mortality stemming from diarrhea
and enteritis in 1975 was 49.0 per 100,000 inhabitants. Safe water supply and
proper sanitation constitute the most important elements in the long-term
control of these diseases. The information available is not accurate enough
to establish a direct correlation between high morbidity/mortality indices
and a poor infrastructure. However, recent studies show that high morbidity
and mortality indices caused by diarrhea and enteritis in the coastal region
coincide with a lack of adequate water supply and excreta disposal systems.
Although infant mortality has decreased from 75 per thousand in 1969 to 50 per
thousand in 1976, infant mortality caused by diarrhea and enteritis has remained
relatively unchanged at an index slightly over 10 per thousand. Information on
the health situation in Colombia is available in the project file.
Sector Organization
2.05      The water supply and sewerage sector in Colombia is under the res-
ponsibility of the Ministry of Public Health, which is in charge of overall
sector planning under the coordination of the DNP. Responsibility for implement-
ing national policies rests with the Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal
(INSFOPAL) and the Instituto Nacional de Salud (INAS) in urhbal _iil rtral areas
respectively.
1/   Source:  Health Conditions in the Americas, 1973-76, PAHO/WHO.



- 3 -
2.06      INSFOPAL's role is one of financial intermediary, coordinator, and
supervisor of sector activities in cities with populations of more than 2,500
inhabitants. However, utilities in the cities of Bogota, Medellin, Cali, and
Palmira function in pract:ice independently since INSFOPAL has not played a sig-
nificant role in the financing of their investments. INAS has the same role
as INSFOPAL ii communities of 2,500 or fewer inhabitants and is also in charge
of supervising construction, operation, and maintenance of its services.
2.07      Direct responsibility for providing water supply and sewerage ser-
vices is shared among the following four categories of institutions:
(a)  Empresas de Obras Sanitarias (EMPOS), with regional or muni-
cipal jurisdiction, which were recently created to provide
services in conmmunities of 2,500 or more inhabitants. In
most cases, EME'OS are the result of the transformation of
ACUAS (former cdecentralized INSFOPAL affiliates). In those
cities where ACUAS have not yet been transformed into EMPOS,
the former still provide water supply and sewerage services.
Eighteen percent of the total population of Colombia live
in communities under the jurisdiction of the EMPOS;
(b) Empresas Publicas Municipa.les (EPMs) provide services in the
major cities of the country and are under the direct control
of the municipal councils. They were created by municipal
decree and are often in charge of multiple activities such
as water supply and sewerage, telecommunications, energy,
slaughterhouses, market places, and solid wastes. Forty-one
percent of the total population of Colombia live in communi-
ties under the jurisdiction of the Empresas Publicas
Municipales;
(c) Municipalities which are not linked to any national sector
institution prcvide water supply and sewerage services,
using their own administrative structure and financial
sources. Three percent of the total population of Colombia
live in communities under the jurisdiction of these munici-
palities; and
(d) The Instituto Nacional de Salud (INAS) provides water supply
and sewerage services or alternative excreta disposal facil-
ities to communities with 2,500 or fewer inhabitants. These
services are provided by INAS directly through its regional
branches or via decentralized regional agencies which depend
on local authorities but are coordinated by INAS; 38% of the
total population of Colombia are under the jurisdiction of
this system.



- 4 -
INSFOPAL supervises utilities in categories (a) and (b) above. In those EMPOS
and Empresas Publicas where partial financing is obtained through INSFOPAL,
the latter exerts close control over the finances and administration of their
activitiesj sipervising all project works.  INSFOPAL has the authority to
intervene in the running of any Empresa that is not performing adequately.
2.08      In addition, there are other institutions linked to the sector.
Among them, the most imtiportant are the autonomous regional corporations whose
objectives and planning are coordinated by DNP. These institutions promote
the socio-economic development of the regions and have authori.ty ,vx,er their
resources, including water (para 2.03(b) and (c)). They also have responsi-
bility for protecting the environment.
Service Levels and Quality
2.09      The availability of water supply and sewerage services in Colombia
ranks among the highest in Latin America. It is estimated that by the end of
1978, about 73% of the urban population had access to potable water through
house connections and about 60% were connected to sewerage systems. Service
levels in the rural areas are lower, with about 40% of the population having
access to water supplies through house connections and about 12% having access
to waste water disposal systems. For the most part, the urban dwellers who
are not served with piped water and sewerage constitute the lower income popu-
lation. Service levels are shown in Table 2.1.
2.10      The percentage of total population served with piped water rose
from 51% in 1970 to 61% in 1978, a substantial increase in rural population
served being offset by a small decrease in the urban population served.
Rural migration into urban areas and the reclassification of some communities
with public water systems from urban to rural since 1970 could account for the
reported decline in urban service levels. Nevertlheless, larger investments in
water supply are needed if the provision of water services is to keep pace
with net migration into urban areas (para. 2.01).
2.11      The percentage of total population served with sewerage in 1978 was
41% while in 1970 it was 39%. Again, this is the net result of an increase in
coverage in rural areas and a decrease in urban areas. However, in this case,
the differences can be explained almost entirely by the changes in definition
of urban and rural population between 1970 and 1978.
2.12      Water supply in Colombia is provided through house connections.
Public standpipes are only used as an interim solution to provide services
to dispersed urban and rural population. According to recent diagnoses made
by DNP, of the 11.5 million inhabitants receiving piped water in urban areas,
about 7.1 million, or 61%, receive water which has been fully treated. The
remaining 39% receive water which has been partially treated by chlorination,
or not treated at all. Sector authorities are aware of this problem and are
planning the necessary steps to provide adequate treatment to all water sup-
plies according to national water quality standards. There is no information



-5-
COLOIBIA
Table 2.1:  THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL-SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
POPULATION AND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE COVERAGES
Urban under
Empresas Mun c.  Urban                    Rural Concen-
and   Munici      Under                     trated       Rural
Total     ~Urban       palities        NFOA            Rural ,under INAS  Dsee
(million)    (million)    (million)        (million)       (milliot)   (million)   (million)
Population              20.6             11.5.           6.4           5.1           9.1        8.1           1.0
Water Supply
Coverage(million)       10.4              8.8            5.2           3.6           1.6        1.6            _
%                    50.7            76.5            81.5          70.1          17.7       19.8
o                                                                                                        ___ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _
Waste Water
Disposal  Coverage
(million)               8.0              7.3             4.9           2.4           0.7         0.7
%                   39.3             63.8            76.6          47.8            7.9        8.8           -
Population              25.7            15.7            11.1           4.6           10.0       8.7          1.3
Water Supply
Coverage
(million)               15.5            11.5             8.3            3.2           4.0        4.0
%                     60.5           73.3            74.5           70.3           40.3      46.3           _
a,   Waste Water
Disposal Coverage
(million)               10.7             9.5             7.6           1.9            1.£        1.2
Z                    41.5            60.2            68.2           40.3           12.1      13.9
Population Growth                   1/
Rate                     2.78             4.5                                         0.98
Population Forecast
1990  (million)              32.7             23.3                                         9.4:
PROJECTED SERVICE COVERAGES
_- -  -- - -r - - - - -- - - - - --- - ----------------   -- -- -
1980                     1985                   1990
WSUr   I                 WS           S           WS          S
Urban             80%        70%           85%         75%          90%        80%
Rural             50%        50%           55%        55%           80%        55%
1/ In June 1978 DANE undertook a household survey which indicated a crude birth rate of 29.1 per 1,000 population
for the country as a whole, and rates of 25.0 and 35.9 for urban and rural areas respectively. Based on the
country average crude death rate of 8 per 1,000 population, the resulting overall population growth rate in
1978 was 2.1% p.a. It is expected that the apparent lower population growth rate in recent years will result
in a downward revision of Colombia's present estimates.
Sources: DANE, DNP (PLANAL Alternative 2) and INSFOPAL.



- 6 -
available to allow assessment of the quality of the water supplied in rural
areas, although legal provisions require compliance with national water
quality standards.
2.13      Waste disposal services are provided in urban areas by sanitary or
combined seweragu- sysL:zi;3.  li rural areas, where the density of population
is lower, alternative systems such as septic tanks, latrines and other indi-
vidual waste disposal systems are widely used.
Past Sector Finances
2.14      External financing has been used extensively during the past two
decades in Colombia for the development of the water supply and sewerage sector.
External assistance for the sector started in 1961 and US$252 million has been
committed since then. Of this amount, 73% was lent by IBRD (paras. 2.21, 2.22
and 2.23); 20% by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and the remainder
by USAID, Eximbank, and the Kredistanstalt Fur  ti1eraiF-t (K,fW).
2.15      Direct grants from the Government to complement internally generated
financing have been largely used in the past for projects wholly financed
with domestic funds. Up to now grants have not only been directed to low
income communities but have frequently been awarded to public utilities in
which poor administration is the reason for lack of financial viability.
This situation should substantially change in urban areas upon implementation
of the new government policy which aims at setting tariff levels which would
permit the recovery of capital costs. However, given the social nature
of the sector, subsidization of interest rates in real terms will have to
continue. These interest rates will be determined on the basis of such
factors as population size, coverage, and income level. In rural areas, the
policy intends to recover 50% of direct investment costs without charging
interest and administrative costs. INAS' system consists of setting up local
committees to obtain community participation and to collect charges for
investment and maintenance of services.
Sector Objectives and Programs
2.16      Government objectives for the decade 1970-80 are to provide water
supply to 80% of the urban population and to 50% of the nondispersed rural
population, and sewerage services to 70% of the urban population and 50% of
the rural population 1/. The 1980 goals for water supply in urban areas are
likely to be met, but those for rural water supply and sewerage in urban and
rural areas do not appear feasible (Table 2.1). A major constraint has been
lack of financial resources, as internal cash generation has fallen signi-
ficantly short of the level expected, and Government funds and allocations
of foreign loans have not been sufficient to meet the gap between available
f!A-ids and requirements. There have also been managerial and technical staff-
ing constraints which have retarded sector development, especially in medium
and small size cities and rural areas.
1/   Or alternative means of excreta disposal for the rural population.



2.17      Investments in the sector for the period 1978-80 for urban and rural
areas have been programmed by each :institution. These investments amount to
an annual average of about US$100 m:illion at 1977 prices. The following table
shows the planned investments by institution for the period 1978-80.
Table 2.2: PLANNED INVESTMENTS BY INSTITUTION (1978-80)
Institution a/            1978       1979      1980       Total
--(US$ million - 1977 equivalent)---
INSFOPAL                           29.2       30.9       36.8       96.9
Bogota, Cali and Medellin          71.4       67.7       43.8      182.9
INAS                               10.8       10.5        5.0       26.3
Total                        111.4      109.1       85.6     306.1
a/   Investments represent about 95% of total sector investment.
Source: INSFOPAL and mission estimates.
2.18      Over the longer term, the Government plans to provide piped water
to 90% of the urban popu:Lation and 80% of the rural nondispersed population
(communities with over 200 inhabitants) by 1990.  Sewerage service level goals
are 80% and 55%, respect:Lvely. In addition, the Government has explicitly
recognized the need to expand services to the low-income population and ex-
pects to accomplish this by using cross-subsidization among different income
consumer groups.
2.19      Sector objectives for 1990 appear realistic.  Investments are! planned
to be financed 50% from external sources, 35% from loans from the Government
(including INSFOPAL loans), and 15% from local loans and internally-generated
funds. The Government is actively seeking external financing and has met with
a positive response fro:n international institutions.  The major constraint in
achieving sector goals appears to be the absorptive capacity of the executing
entities, especially in the case of small cities and rural areas. Institu-
tion building and training programs to help remove these constraints would
be developed with the assistance of the international institutions. The pro-
posed project includes a technical assistance program for INSFOPAL, EPF[s, and
EMPOS (para 6.09(m)). A CIDA project would finance an extended and revised
training program for the sector institutions (para 3.06).
Sector Investment Priorit:ies
2.20      The Government has prepared a national plan (PLANAL), which contains
a program of priorities for the allocation of investments within the sector.
Priorities for urban areas are based on the following factors:  (a) size of
population in relation to total population; (b) geopolitical status within the
region; (c) existing coverage of services; and (d) cost of investments per
additional person served,, Priorities for rural areas are based on similar



- 8 -
considerations. In addition, the expression of interest on the part of a
community in contributing a percentage of investment costs and a commitment to
operate and maintain the services is taken into account in determining invest-
ment priorities.
Previous Bank Projects
2.21      The Bank has been assisting Colombia since 1968 in the implementa-
tion of sectorial plans by helping finance different projects. Three loans
have been approved for the city of Bogota, one (Loan 536-CO) for US$14 million
in 1968, another (Loan 741-CO) for US$88 million in 1971, and a third for
US$30 million in May 1979. In 1970, Loan 682-CO for US$18.5 million was
approved for the city of Cali and a second loan for the same city (Loan
1523-CO) for US$13.8 million was approved in 1978.
2.22      In 1971, Bank participation was extended to the financing of water
and sewerage works in medium size cities. This action followed the policy of
the Colombian Government with regard to improvement of services in these cities
and encouragement of a more balanced urban development. The Bank first parti-
cipated in the implementation of this policy through Loan 738-CO for US$2 mil-
lion for the city of Palmira.  In 1972, the Bank decided to participate in the
financing of multi-city water supply and sewerage projects with INSFOPAL as
the Borrower.  Two loans have been approved, one (Loan 860-CO) for US$9.1 mil-
lion for seven cities in 1972 and another (Loan 1072-CO) for US$27 million for
eight cities in 1975 (para 3.15). The initial projects for Bogota and Cali
have been completed 1/. In both projects, as well as in the ongoing projects
in the sector in Colombia, recurrent problems have delayed implementation and
caused cost overruns. All projects are now progressing satisfactorily in
conformity with revised schedules.
2.23      In 1977, Bank participation was further extended to the financing
of water and sewerage works in rural areas. Loans 849-CO and 1163-CO for the
agricultural sector included small water components. The Integrated Rural
Development Project (Loan 1352-CO) included a water component of US$3.2 mil-
lion and the Nutrition Improvement Project (Loan 1487-CO), a water component
of US$1.7 million and a program for construction of latrines in rural areas.
Important water and sewerage components are also included in the first Urban
Development Project (Loan 1558-CO) directed toward upgrading the marginal
zones of 23 medium cities of Colombia and a project for the southeast zone
of Cartagena was recently approved.
3.   THE BORROWER
Introduction
3.01      The Borrower for the proposed loan will be the Instituto Nacional
de Fomento Municipal, which has also been the Borrower for two Bank-financed
projects in the water and sewerage sector (Loans 860-CO and 1072-CO). INSFOPAL,
a decentralized Government agency under the Ministry of Public Health is the
1/   Project Performance Audit Report on Loan 536-CO (Bogota Water Supply I)
and Project Completion Report on Loan 682-CO (Cali Water Supply and
Sewerage I), issued 3/29/78 and 6/30/78, respectively.



- 9 -
financial agency for the sector and has responsibility for coordinating,
supervising and financing sector activities in water supply, sewerage, solid
wastes collection and disposal, slaul:ghterhouses and market places inL cities
with populations over 2,51)0.
Background
3.02      INSFOPAL was created in 1940.  After several changes 1/ INSFOE'AL's
present structure was adopted follow:ing Decree No. 2804/75, which was intended
to decentralize sector act:ivitLes, reinforce INSFOPAL's role of financial
intermediary, and reduce Lts direct participation in project execution.
INSFOPAL has taken measures to meet the new institutional requirements result-
ing from the above Decree. These measures have been directed toward decentral-
izing the regional agencies and implementing INSFOPAL's new structure, in
accordance with its new functions.  I]NSFOPAL, however, due to its own insti-
tutional constraints and i:he limited capabilities of the new regional agencies,
has not been able to perform these new functions satisfactorily.
Organization and Functions
3.03      INSFOPAL is managed by a siLx-member Board of Directors (Junta Direc-
tiva) and a Director General who is appointed by the President of Colombia.
The Board of Directors is chaired by the Minister of Health and is composed of
the Chief of DNP or his delegate; the Director of Public Credit of the Ministry
of Finance or his delegate; a representative of the President of Colombia; the
Chief of the Sanitary Engineering Department of the Ministry of Public Health,
and INSFOPAL's Director General. The latter does not have the power to vote on
Board decisions.
3.04      INSFOPAL's principal functions are:  (a) to prepare public investment
programs within its field of activity; (b) to help the executing agencies to
finance sector works; (c) to promote the creation of new executing agencies
and to help in the institution building of those already in existence; (d) to
control the implementatiorL of programs and administration of services in the
executing agencies; (e) to formulate design, construction and operation
standards; (f) to comment on and charnel applications for tariff increases
prepared by the executing agencies to the National Tariff Board (Junta Nacional
de Tarifas); (g) to request external credits for sector programs; (h) to
intervene in the managemerLt of the executing agencies which are not performing
adequately; (i) to assist the executing agencies in design, construction,
and operation of services when required; and (j) to plan and carry out training
programas Eor personnel in the executing agencies.
1/   The institution was created in 1940 under the jurisdiction of the Ministry
of Public Works. In 1950 its original name (Fondo de Fomento Municipal)
was changed to INSFOPAL and it was given responsibility for implementing
projects in the water and sewerage sector; in 1968 INSFOPAL was placed
under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health.



- 10 -
3.05      Under its present structure, INSFOPAL has five departments:  admin-
istration, technical, financial, external credit-financed projects, and assist-
ance to executing agencies (Annex 8).
Personnel
3.06      INSFOPAL presently has 436 employees, distributed as follows:
(a) six executives; (b) 52 intermedLate management-level staff; (c) 102 tech-
nical staff; and (d) 276 administrative and support staff. Of the 102 techni-
cians, 45 are civil engineers (only one has a postgraduate diploma in sanitary
engineering), and 32 economists. Job instability and low salaries compared to
the private sector have caused a shortage of technically qualified personnel,
and only 30% of the professional staff have more than five years' experience.
The degree of competence of most of the staff does not correspond to the high
level of responsibility recently accorded to INSPOPAL. In addition the lower
levels are overstaffed by unqualified personnel. INSFOPAL should improve the
performance of existing personnel through: (a) a rational assignment of
personnel in accordance with its aew structure, to be carried out by the
Institutional Development Unit (para 3.18 (a) and Annex 9); and (b) a continuous
training program at all levels to strengthien previous programs while adapting
them to INSFOPAL's new role in the sector. CIDA has already offered technical
and financial assistance for this program. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that (a) the Bank will be given the opportunity to comment on the
terms of reference of the revised training program to be prepared not later
than September 30, 1979; (b) the technical assistance program will be initiated
not later than December 31, 1979; and (c) in case of failure to obtain CIDA's
assistance, the Government of Colombia would provide an alternative source of
financing.
3.07      The shortage of qualified personnel is even more acute in INSFOPAL's
new fields of activity: solid wastes, slaughterhouses, and market places.
INSFOPAL is presently seeking external financial assistance for a national
plan for the solid wastes sector (PRONASU) and CIDA has agreed in principle
to participate in the financing of a project for ten cities. The Institu-
tional Development Unit (para 3.18(a) and Annex 9) is committed to establishing
the solid wastes unit no later than December 31, 1979.
3.08      INSFOPAL, the EMPOS, and EPMs make extensive use of consultants for
the preparation of feasibility studies, final designs and construction super-
vision. Since INSFOPAL, EMPOS and EPMs are incapable of undertaking these
activities using their own staff, the use of consultants will continue to be
significant (para 6.21).
Planning
3.09      INSFOPAL has no long range investment plan and allocates its funds
under the capital budget which is prepared annually once the availability of
government funds has been ascertained. This practice has resulted in a lack
of continuity in funding projects, inconsistencies ia the status of project
preparation, and constant shifting of priorities. Furthermore, allocations
from the national budget are subject to reductions, which are difficult to



- 1I -
oppose and subsequently to manage in the absence of a long range investment
plan with clearly defined priorities. Measures to correct this situation
are included in para 3.19 (b).
Budgeting
3.10      In addition to its capital budget INSFOPAL prepares an annual budget
for revenue and expenses, including debt service. These budgets are not used
as an effective means of allocating funds, and expense control and budgetary
procedures need improvement. The Institutional Development Unit (para. 3.18
(a) and Annex 9) will prepare and implement guidelines to make the budget
procedures effective.
Accounting
3.11      INSFOPAL's accounting system is inadequate for its new role in the
sector. While its charts of accounts satisfy government budgetary require-
ments it is unable to produce the information needed by management. Account-
ing is inefficient and financial results are delayed by six months or more.
Accounts are still being converted to an accrual based system. One of the
first tasks of the Institutional Development Unit (para. 3.18(a) and Annex 9)
is to prepare and implement a dual purpose accrual accounting system which
would satisfy government requirements and provide the necessary management
information. The manual for this system will be prepared by this Unit for all
EPMs and EMPOS and should result in a standardized national reporting system.
Auditing
3.12      According to Colombian laws, INSFOPAL's financial records must be
audited by the National Controller's Office. This audit is limited to the
control of budgeted expenditures and does not include a review of the accuracy
of financial statements, their conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles, and the consistency of internal control. Such audit was, however,
recognized as appropriate for INSFOPAL's External Credit Office, and in early
1973 the Bank accepted the National Controller's Office as the external auditor
for this unit. INSFOPAL assumed that the Bank's acceptance indicated approval
of the National Controllers' Office as an external and internal auditor
for all INSFOPAL operations. INSFOPAL has established an internal audit
section, reporting to the Director General, as part of the immediate institu-
tional improvements. This unit will be staffed prior to loan effectiveness.
The internal audit section would, as a minimum, review and make recommendations
on internal auditing systems for INSFOPAL and the executing agencies and
comment on INSFOPAL's compliance with its by-laws.
3.13      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, starting in
1979, INSFOPAL's financial statements would be audited annually by compestent
external auditors satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that a certified copy of their report
would be presented to the Bank not later than four months after the end of
each fiscal year.



- 12 -
Insurance
3.14      INSFOPAL carries the following insurance coverages:  fire insurance
on buildings and their contents; fire and theft insurance on material and
supply inventories; fire, theft, third party liability, and repair coverage
on its vehicles. The above insurance program, together with insurance require-
ments for project materials and supplies while in transit are satisfactory
to the Bank and should be continued. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that INSFOPAL will continue with the above-mentioned insurance
coverages.
Review of Previous Loans
3.15      The Bank has participated in the financing of the water supply and
sewerage sector in Colombia through INSFOPAL with Loans 860-CO and 1072-CO
for US$9.1 million and US$27.0 million, respectively. Loan 860-CO was signed
in October 1972, and as of April 30, 1979, US$6.4 million, or 70%, had been
disbursed. Loan 1072-CO was signed in January 1975, and as of April 30, 1979,
US$10.5 million, or 39%, had been disbursed. Progress under both projects has
been slower than anticipated as a result of delays in final design preparation
and lack of timely provision of Government counterpart funds. Critical fund
shortfalls for works not yet committed have slowed implementation and caused
cost overruns. The main project objectives, however, should not be signifi-
cantly affected since remedial actions are being taken by the executing
agencies (INSFOPAL's subborrowers).
3.16      Final design preparation under previous loans took significantly
longer than originally planned and is still incomplete for some cities. Under
the proposed project, final designs are at an advanced stage of preparation
and specific measures are proposed to guarantee timely project implementation
(para. 6.13). The Government's failure to provide counterpart funds resulted
in reduced budgetary allocations for INSFOPAL, undisbursed budgets, and fund
transfers bunched at the end of the year. During negotiations, the Government
of Colombia and the Bank agreed on a schedule for quarterly disbursements of
Government funds that will permit completion of the works under Loans 860-CO
and 1072-CO according to a revised implementation program. Both projects are
scheduled to be completed prior to March 31, 1981. To prevent a recurrence of
the budgetary problems encountered in previous projects, the proposed project
recommends specific procedures in para. 3.19(d).
Evaluation of the Borrower
3.17      INSFOPAL's performance during execution of Loans 860-CO and 1072-CO
was unsatisfactory. Decree No. 2804/75 allowed INSFOPAL to disassociate it-
self from direct project construction and to give its undivided attention to
the financing and management of the sector. However, although INSFOPAL's new
institutional structure was approved by the Board of Directors in July 1977,
the new departments created, and staff appointed to fill positions at manage-
ment level, it is not working properly and INSFOPAL still operates on an ad
hoc basis. The following major issues have to be addressed in order to
improve INSFOPAL's efficiency:



- 1.3 -
(a)  Lack of medium al'd long term planning, which is the
greatest limiting factor for sector development;
(b) Lack of a clear Einancial policy which would ensure
viable lending operations;
(c)  Delays in implementing the new structure in accordance
with Decree No 2304/75;
(d)  Lack of coordination among [NSFOPAL's five departments;
(e)  Personnel instability due to changes in top management;
and
(f) Uncertainty of Government budgetary allocations.
3.18      A comprehensive set of measures has been discussed with INSFOPAL
with a view to solving these problems.. The following actions have already
been taken:
(a) The creation of an Institutional Development Unit (Unidad
de Desarrollo Institucional - UDI) within INSFOPAL to
speed up implementation of the new structure, review
INSFOPAL's function and organization, and propose improve-
ments to the Board of Directors through the Director
General. Among the Unit's responsibilities will be the
review of INSFOPAL's code of functions. Annex 9 gives a pro-
posed schedule of principal tasks and terms of reference
for the unit agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank.
The unit will rely on the advice of full-time consultants,
to be partially financed under the technical assistance
component of the proposed project (para 6.09 (m)). These
consultants would be hired with qualifications and terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank; and
(b)  The establishment of the permanent line position of Sub-
Director General (Assistant Director of INSFOPAL), under the
Director General, to coordinate the different departments
(Annex 8). The creation of this position will also contri-
bute to overall continuity in performance since the Director
General is frequently replaced and the department directors
do not have a broad view of the institution.
3.19      In addition, assurances were obtained from the Government and
INSFOPAL during negotiations that:
(a) the Sub-Director General of INSFOPAL and the staff of the UDI
will be appointed prior to loan effectiveness;



- 14 -
(b)  a comprehensive sector development program for the areas
under INSFOPAL's jurisdiction will be adopted not later
than June 30, 1979. This program will be prepared by
INSFOPAL in consultation with DNP and based upon specific
sector policy currently being prepared by the Government;
(c)  financial viability in future lending operations will be
achieved through the following measures:
(i)  after July 1, 1979, all Government budgetary funds
should normally be passed on to the EMPOS/EPMs as
loans 1/ bearing interest at a rate of not less
than 12% for communities with fewer than 35,000
inhabitants and 18% for communities with more than
35,000 inhabitants; such interest rates being sub-
ject to periodic review by INSFOPAL and the Bank
to determine their appropriateness;
(ii) equity investments or loans on terms other than those
specified in para.(i) above will be made only from
Government contributions specifically earmarked;
(iii) Bank funds will be onlent under the same terms and
conditions as the Bank loan. Onlending terms for
other foreign loans will be determined in the specific
sector policies mentioned in (b) above; and
(iv) net interest income and principal amortization of
national funds from lending operations will be
reinvested under the same criteria established in
(c(i)) above;
(d)  aside from standard assurances obtained during negotia-
tions that the Government will provide the Borrower, or
cause the Borrower to be provided with funds in an amount
equivalent to not less than US$31.7 million required to carry
out the proposed project, the following procedures will be used:
(i)  during negotiations the Bank and the Government
agreed on a detailed funding program based on quar-
terly estimates contained in Annex 7 indicating
the amount of Government funds and disbursement
dates; and
(ii) the program under (i) should be reviewed annually
and the respective amounts allocated in the national
budget. Any failure to disburse the amounts that
would, in the Bank's opinion, affect implementation
of the project, would cause the Bank to suspend
disbursements.
_|   As stated in Article 33 of Decre No. 2804.



- 15 -
3.20      The technical, managerial, and financial improvements to be
achieved through the implementation of the recommendations of the proposed
project should help INSFOI'AL to successfully carry out the 1979-83 invest-
ment program, which includes ongoing projects, the proposed project, and
those to be financed by domestic funds and other international institutions
(IDB and CIDA). However, any eventual expansion of this investment program
may extend the institution beyond its administrative capabilities and absorp-
tive capacity. Assurances were obtained from INSFOPAL during negotiaticns
that it will not undertake or finance, without the Bank's agreement, any
increase of more thian 5% in the mutually agreed annual investments included in
the program during the period 1979-83, which program shall be: (i) consistent
with INSFOPAL's absorptive capacity as determined during negotiations; and
(ii) reviewed annually by the Government, the Bank, and INSFOPAL and revised
as may be agreed among them.
4.   THE BENEFICIARIES
Introduction
4.01      In five cf the 23 beneficiary cities, water supply and sewerage
services are the responsibility of the Empresas Publicas Municipales (EE'Ms-
municipal public companies), in 15 cities services are provided by the
Empresas de Obras Sanitar:as (EMPOS -- regional or municipal sanitary works
companies) while in the remaining three cities services are provided by ACUAS
(companies affiliated to ]INSFOPAL and now being transformed into EMPOS (para.
2.07(a)).
Organization
4.02      The EPMs, in addition to water and sewerage services, often haLve
responsibility for various other public services (para. 2.07(b)). Each EPM
was created by a decree of the city's municipal council and is managed by
a five- to seven-member board of directors appointed by this council. The
EPMs were created before the enactment of Decree No. 2804/75. However, this
decree enables EPMs to be transformed into EMPOS by making the necessary,
changes to their statutes. To ensure an independent and efficient administra-
tion of the boards, munic:pal councils appoint at least three directors from
lists proposed by local banking and professional organizations. Among the
powers invested in the board of each EPM is the freedom to select and dismiss
the general manager and to propose changes to the service tariffs. Routine
administration is delegated to the general manager.
4.03      The EMPOS (para 2.07(a)) established by Decree No. 2804/75, are
in charge of providing services in INSFOPAL's five fields of responsibility
(para 3.01) in cities with populations over 2,500.  INSFOPAL, which is respon-
sible for the creation of the EMPOS, shares their capital under their commer-
cial structure. The regional EMPOS which are responsible for services in a
group of cities are not necessarily 'Located in a city benefitted by the
project; when this occurs., local branches of the regional EMPOS take charge of
sector services. Ihe sysl:em was created so that when a local branch of a
regional EMPOS became financially viable, it could be transformed into a
municipal EMPOS.



- 16 -
4.04      Each EMPOS is administered by a five-member board of directors and
a general manager who is a member of the board, with no voting power. The
members of the board of regional (or municipal) EMPOS are: (a) the governor
of the province (or the mayor), or its representative; (b) the chief of the
environmental sanitation section of the Ministry of Public Health; (c) a
delegate of the municipalities under its jurisdiction (or the users); (d) a
delegate of the regional (or municipal) development institutions; and (e) a
delegate of the national (or regional) sector institutions. The general
manager is appointed by the Minister of Health and is chosen from a short list
of three candidates proposed by INSFOPAL's Director.
4.05      The creation of EMPOS is consistent with the national policy of
sector decentralization through increased local participation. The EMPOS
are in charge of planning, developing, and implementing investment programs
as well as operation and maintenance of services. The role of INSFOPAL is
to supervise and control EMPOS' activities by: (a) approving their investment
programs; (b) recommending their proposed service tariffs to the National
Tariff Board (Junta Nacional de Tarifas); (c) approving their organizational
structure, number of personnel, and salaries; and (d) controlling their tech-
nical and financial performance.
4.06      The public utilities of 11 cities in the project depend on the
following regional EMPOS: Atlantico, Bolivar, Boyaca, Cesar, Guajira, Narino,
Risaralda, Sucre, and Tolima. The utilities of the following four cities are
municipal EMPOS: Valledupar, Ibague, Pasto, and Pamplona. In the cities of
Rio Negro and Copacabana, the utilities depend on Acuantioquia (ACUA) and in
Girardot, on Acuagirardot. Utilities in the cities of Girardot, Rio Negro,
and Copacabana are in the process of being transformed into EMPOS (Girardot
into a municipal EMPOS and Acuantioquia into a regional EMPOS). Annex 3
shows the organization to which each project city belongs.
Management and Personnel
4.07      Management efficiency varies from one beneficiary to another but
it is affected in every case by frequent changes. The shortage of qualified
technical personnel in many of the EPMs or EMPOS leads to a work overload
for the few technicians employed. In the newly created EMPOS, management is
further affected by the slow implementation of the new institutional struc-
tures. Five cities have benefitted from previous Bank loans thus far: Neiva
(860-CO), Cartagena, Pasto, Valledupar, and Ibague (1072-CO). In Cartagena,
frequent management changes have resulted in an unstable administration of
the EMPOS while the EMPOS in Ibague, Pasto, Neiva, and Valledupar have
demonstrated through project implementation that their management is adequate.
In most of the EPMs and EMPOS, management does not have enough information to
back up its decision-making process due to inadequate data collection and
retrieval. INSFOPAL, under the Executing Agencies' Strengthening Program
(Programa de Fortalecimiento de los Organismos Ejecutores--FOREC) has already
prepared a study of six EMPOS, and the remaining studies are underway under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Copies of the completed documents
are in the project file. Recommendations resulting from these studies include
training and changes in planning, budgeting, accounting, purchasing, informa-
tion, billing, and collection procedures. Specific recommendations for the
implementation of these measures are given in para 4.12.



- 17 -
4.08      The present number of employees in the Empresas and EMPOS varies
from 1.8 per 1,000 connections in Espinal to 11.0 in Riohacha, with an average
of 5, which is acceptable. Employees' salaries and benefits are not competi-
tive with those of the private sector.
Accounting
4.09      The accounting systems used by those EPMs and EMPOS which operate
on a cash basis do not satisfy present needs. Present accounting systems
are inadequate for detailed cost accounting and the production of balance
sheets and income and cash flow statements for each of the different public
services in which the EPM or EMPOS engaged. Regional EMPOS consolidate
annually monthly cash flow statements produced by the individual water
utilities. Recommendations on these matters are contained in para. 4.12.
Planning and Budgeting
4.10      The EPMs and some cities under EMPOS have updated master plans for
their systems. However, mDst EMPOS have depended on ad hoc programs which
satisfy only urgent needs. The budget is usually prepared on the basis of
annual investments and operational requirements (para. 4.12).
Audit
4.11      In those Empresas presently included in previous Bank loans, an
external audit is carried out by indelpendent auditors. In the other cities,
present arrangements are uasatisfactory and the audit is carried out by the
National Controller's Office. Becausie INSFOPAL has not enforced the estab-
lishment of an internal audit office, the National Controller's Office pro-
vides assistance in the fields of internal control, accounting, and financial
procedures (para. 4.12).
Improvement in Management 'ystems
4.12      The completion o: the study of the EPMs and EMPOS (para. 4.07) and
presentation to the Bank by INSFOPAL of a satisfactory plan for the institu-
tional improvement of the E.PMs and EMPOS corresponding to each city in the
project, including a schedule for the implementation of such a plan, is a
condition of disbursement of Bank loan funds to finance project expenditures
in each city. The plan should include as a minimum measures to establish
suitable budgets, implement an accrua:L based accounting system, establish an
internal audit, and prepare a system to collect basic information.
4.13      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (a) the EPMs
and the EMPOS should introduce bookkeeping improvements satisfactory to the
Bank not later than October 31, 1979 to permit full disclosure of the origin
and application of funds for each city under their jurisdiction, by type of
public service provided; (b) that water and sewerage revenues collected in
each project city would not: be diverted to another city or service with the
exception of revenues in ex:cess of those required to cover all operating and
maintenance expenses, working capital requirements, debt service and contribu-
tions to the cost of the Ir,vestment Project (para. 7.18(a)); and (c) that the
EPMs and EMPOS will employ external auditors satisfactory to the Bank.



- 18 -
5.   POPULATION, SECTOR SERVICES, AND DEMAND IN THE PROJECT AREA
Location and Development Prospects
5.01      The project would serve 23 medium and small-size cities with between
20,000 and 400,000 inhabitants located in 16 provinces (departamentos) of
Colombia (Map 13931). These provinces had a combined population of 15.0 mil-
lion in 1977 (excluding the populations of Cali, Medellin, and Barranquilla).
The 23 cities have a combined population of 1.9 million, or 13% of the 16
provinces' total population, excluding the three above-mentioned major cities.
The main sources of income for the population of the 23 cities are agricul-
ture, livestock, and commerce. Since most of these cities are provincial
capitals, they also have a considerable amount of government activity.
Cartagena, Girardot, Pamplona, and Rio Negro have tourism activities while
Cartagena, Soledad (close to Barranquilla), Rio Negro (close to Medellin),
Dos Quebradas, and Tumaco have some industry. Summary information on each
city is given in Annex 3 and detailed information on geography, topography,
climate, water resources and economic activities is in the project file.
5.02      The currently estimated annual population growth of the 23 cities
varies from 2.8% p.a. to 8.2% p.a. (Annex 3) compared with the 2.1% p.a. rate
of population growth for the country as a whole. Economic activity is increas-
ing significantly in some of the project cities. Cartagena, for example, in
addition to large scale plans to develop tourism, plans to expand its industrial
activities and the Bank is participating in the financing of the Cartagena
Industrial Export Processing Zone Project. Rio Negro, a small city of 35,000
inhabitants, will face sudden development as a result of construction of the
new airport serving the city of Medellin. Copacabana became a "dormitory"
city of the Medellin metropolitan area which needed to extend its populated
area out of the Valle del Aburra. Soledad (where the airport serving Barran-
quilla is located) is growing rapidly. Monteria, Riohacha, Valledupar, Pasto,
and Ibague, as provincial capitals, are centers of development for their
respective regions. In the specific case of the city of Tumaco, the Govern-
ment has expressed its commitment to the extension of public services and
promotion of its lumber industries in order to help the poorer inhabitants.
Water Resources
5.03      Water resources are not a limiting factor in the provision of
water supply services in the cities and development of multiple surface water
sources is the result of increasing demands stemming from urban growth that
can be met without special difficulties. Three of the 23 cities use ground-
water sources while the remainder depend on surface sources. In Rio Negro,
Pamplona, Sincelejo, and Riohacha, water sources are a long way from the urban
area making it necessary to construct costly transmission lines. In the
city of Sabanalarga, the search for groundwater has not yielded the expected
results and studies of superficial sources are underway for future expansion.
In Sincelejo studies are being carried out to expand groundwater resources.
Treated water for Dos Quebradas is supplied from the cities of Pereira and
Santa Rosa and measures were agreed on during negotiations to ensure that its
future demands are met (para 6.26).



- 19 -
Existing Water Supply and Waste Disposal Systems
5.04      In many cities the topography allows the use of gravity systems to
connect water production and distribution facilities. Most of the cities have
conventional processes for surface water treatment, but production capacity is
not always adequate to cope with present demands. Water production capacity
for the cities of Cartagena, Pasto, Valledupar, Ibague, and Neiva is being
increased under Loans 860 and 1072-CO. The cities of Rio Negro and Aguachica
lack treatment plants and receive only chlorinated raw water. Fifteen of the
23 cities need extensions and/or improvements to their water treatment facili-
ties in order to cover pre!sent and future demands in quantity and quality.
The adequacy of existing water distribution systems for present and future
demand varies from one city to another. However, the common needs are: (a)
additional storage capacity; (b) network improvements to provide water with
more evenly balanced pressure and flow rates throughout the city; (c) provi-
sion of services to low-income areas, following the urban development of the
city; and (d) an increase in metering coverage. Detailed information on
existing water supply facilities in each city is in the project file.
5.05      Four of the 23 cities lack sewerage and use alternative disposal
systems. Ten of the remaining cities have combined (storm and sanitary)
sewerage and nine have sanitary sewers. In the cities of Dos Quebradas, Rio
Negro, Codazzi, and Aguachica existing systems are poorly organized.  None
of the cities has sewage treatment facilities and raw sewage is discharged
into receiving water bodie!s; however, in most cases existing sewerage systems
do not significantly affect the environment and present needs are concentrated
on extensions of the systems. In the cities of Ibague, Valledupar, and
Cartago existing sewerage systems lack adequate main collectors, appropriate
outfalls, and final discharge facilities.  With the exception of Dos Quebradas,
Rio Negro, Codazzi, and Aguachica existing systems follow INSFOPAL's design
and construction standards and are arranged in such a way that they can be
connected to future sewage treatment plants when required. Detailed inform-
ation on existing sewerage systems for each city is in the project file.
Population Served and Service Levels
5.06      The average water service level for the 23 cities (73%) is the same
as the national average for urban areas, while the average sewerage service
level for the same cities (48%) is significantly lower than the respective
national average for urban areas (60%,). Service levels vary from 30% to 95%
for water supply and from 0% to 80% f'or sewerage. Coverages for water supply
and sewerage for each city are given in Annex 3.
5.07      Even though eight of the 23 cities have coverages of more than
80%, water supply services in six of these eight cities are not satisfactory.
Services are provided on a restrictecl basis, as a result of the inadequacy
of present production and distribution facilities. Girardot, with the highest
coverage of the group, needs improvements to its water intake and water treat-
ment plant. In addition, new distribution mains are needed to cover the
demands of Girardot's new areas. The present systems in Ibague and Pasto,
which were upgraded by works carried out under Loan 1072-CO, do not have
enough water reservoir capacity. The city of Neiva, under Loan 860-CO, needs



- 20 -
to increase its water production and transmission capacity, while coverages
in Chiquinquira (80%) and Espinal (85%) do not reflect the poor condition of
their restricted services. In the city of Cartagena, which has the largest
population of the cities covered by the project, rationing is permanent and
although production facilities are being extended (under Loan 1072-CO), it is
essential to construct additional distribution mains to distribute the water
evenly throughout the city and to further extend the production facilities
under construction to cover demands expected beyond 1983. In other cities
with lower coverages a large section of the population (mostly urban poor) are
without service, and many of those who are served are affected by inadequate
production and distribution facilities. As a result of the lack or inadequacy
of water supply services, the affected population of these cities have to
rely on the following risky alternatives: (a) dug wells; (b) inadequate and
unreliable private services; (c) clandestine connections; or (d) public stand-
posts, as a temporary relief.
5.08      Metered connections represent 71% of the total registered connections
in the 23 cities. However, the number of illegal connections is thought to be
significant. The EPMs and EMPOS are taking the preliminary steps of a service
census and are initiating a program to detect and register illegal connections,
as well as to increase the percentage of metered connections. As a result of
the lack of production metering and low metering coverage in private dwellings,
unaccounted-for water can only be roughly estimated at an average of 40% for
the 23 cities. The number of water connections, metered water connections,
and estimates of unaccounted-for water for each city are given in Annex 3.
The proposed project includes the purchase of water meters and construction
of house connections. Since water production in most of the cities is not
metered, the proposed project includes the purchase and installation of meter-
ing devices for the water treatment plants. Finally, the project through its
Technical Assistance Program, will help the EPMs and EMPOS to carry out a
service census and to implement the program to combat illegal connections.
5.09      Fourteen of the 23 cities have sewerage works included in their
projects. Even though three of these cities (Ibague, Neiva and Cartago) have
sewerage coverages of more than 75%, the systems do not function properly
because of the lack of adequate main collectors and outfalls. The existing
interception systems consist of open courses throughout the city, which foul
the environment and create health hazards. The remaining cities need import-
ant extensions to the sewerage network. The level of services of the present
sewerage systems varies from city to city. Those inhabitants lacking sewerage
rely on latrines or septic tanks, which can be used only if there is a low
population density and when the soil conditions and the water table level
(when underground water is used as a water supply source) make these alterna-
tives feasible. Sewerage coverages for each city are given in Annex 3.
Population Projections and Demand for Services
5.10      The population of each of the 23 cities was projected to the year
1990 based on the 1973 census and population growth indexes estimated by the
National Administrative Department of Statistics (DANE). Targets for water
supply and sewerage coverages were set at 90% and 80% of the estimated 1990
population, reflecting the Government's goals for the sector (para 2.18).



- 21 -
5.11      Water demands in 19 project cities reached a level at which, without
the construction of the proposed installations, the utilities would either
have to stop adding new connections to the system or allow water pressures to
fall below minimum acceptable standards. With the project, water production
and main distribution will be able to meet the 1990 demands of 90% of the
population of these cities. Water distribution would be extended, based on
the needs of the estimated 1983 population (end of the construction period);
complementary works will be necessary to extend distribution networks during
the period 1984-90 to serve the incremental population living in new areas
of the cities. These network extensions are generally carried out by lmnd
developers or by the Instituto de Credito Territorial (ICT). ICT includ(es
secondary distribution networks and sewers in its housing development projects.
5.12      Water demand projections prepared by INSFOPAL are based on historical
data for 1976 and 1977 and on the use of a formula elaborated by DNP. Tnis
formula, derived from a study of 60 Colombian cities, establishes a direct
relationship between population and consumption per capita. However, most
of the additional connections will be made in low-income areas where average
consumption per capita is expected to be lower than in the more affluent
areas. Thus, new projections were made using constant consumption per dwell-
ing to compensate for the lower consumption per capita in the marginal areas
with more consumers per dwelling. Existing rationing in some citLes was also
taken into consideration when projecting per capita consumption. The volume
of unaccounted-for water is expected to decrease from the present average
levels of 40% to an average of 25% by 1986. This drop would be achieved
through: (a) increased metering; (b) completion of the census of connections
in each city; (c) improved maintenance of water meters; and (d) implementa-
tion of a leak detection program. Assurances were obtained from INSFOPAL
during negotiations that measures satisfactory to the Bank will be taken
or caused to be taken by the beneficiaries so as to progressively reduce
unaccounted-for water from the present levels to 25% by 1986.  Annex 10 gives
past and forecasted water production and demand for each city.
5.13      Sewerage services need to lbe extended to areas of high population
density. In most of the ,ities the present situation is worsening because of
the uneven rate of installation of water and sewerage services. As a result,
increasing volumes of waste water have to be disposed of through already inade-
quate installations.   As a consequence, sewerage systems for 14 cities would
be constructed or extended to providie services to meet the demands of 80% of
the 1983 population.  In addition, interceptors and main collectors would be
constructed to receive voLumes expected in the year 1990. Most of the
secondary sewers needed to cover new areas after 1983 would be constructed by
land developers and ICT.
6.   THE PROJECT
Introduction
6.01      The project wouLd be the Bank's third direct operation througlh
INSFOPAL in the development of water and sewerage services for medium ar(I
small-size cities throughout Colombia and follows a Government request for
further Bank participation in the financing of the sector.  Moreover, as; a



- 22 -
follow-up of previous operations, it would provide the required external
resources for sector development and help alleviate existing institutional
constraints currently affecting such development. Three Bank missions visited
Colombia to assist INSFOPAL in the identification and subsequent preparation
of the project in 1977 and 1978.
6.02      The project would consist of the improvement and extension of water
and sewerage systems in the following 23 cities of Colombia: Cartagena, Ibague,
Valledupar, Pasto, Neiva, Monteria, Sincelejo, Soledad, Riohacha, Girardot,
Cartago, Copacabana, Rio Negro, Dos Quebradas, Calarca, Aguachica, Tumaco,
Magangue, Codazzi, Pamplona, Chiquinquira, Sabanalarga, and Espinal.
Project Objectives
6.03      The main project objectives are:  (a) to continue strengthening
INSFOPAL's operational capabilities; (b) to contribute to the development of
the regional and municipal EMPOS, EPMs, and water utilities depending on those
EMPOS and responsible for services in the cities to be benefitted by the
project, and to create and organize financially viable companies; (c) to
provide potable water through house connections to approximately 472,000
additional inhabitants of 19 cities by 1983; (d) to provide sewerage services
to approximately 654,000 additional inhabitants of 14 cities by 1983; (e) to
improve and extend water production and transmission facilities in order to
cover the demands of the 1990 population of the above-mentioned cities; (f) to
provide urgently needed works to prevent undesirable sewage discharges into
open storm drains and to protect water supply sources for further contamination;
and (g) to reduce unaccounted-for water in these cities from the present high
levels (40% average) to not more than 25% by 1986.
6.04      Achievement of the objectives referred to in para 6.03(a) and (b)
is essential for an effective sector organization. The project would contri-
bute to the achievement of these objectives through a technical assistance
program (para. 6.09(m)).
Selection Criteria
6.05      Project cities were selected from PLANAL in agreement with DNP.
PLANAL is a study based on a set of criteria (para. 2.20) which was applied
to every Colombian city with population of between 2,500 and 70,000 inhabit-
ants. PLANAL's first ranking priorities were divided into three packages to
be financed by the Bank, CIDA, and IDB and were coordinated to avoid overlap-
ping of projects and to promote the efficient use of financial resources, with
the softer loans (IDB and CIDA) directed to small and financially weaker water
companies. In addition, the Bank project includes additional works in five
cities under present loans (860-CO/1072-CO) as a follow up of these previous
programs.
6.06      The proposed project includes almost three times the number of
cities in each one of the previous projects and a higher percentage of smaller
populations, making supervision of project implementation more difficult.
Because of these difficulties, there is a risk that reordering of national



- 23 -
priorities or internal problems in project cities may cause cancellaticon of
subprojects.  It was agreed during negotiations that in the eventuality that
an Investment Project for any project beneficiary city is cancelled, other
cities could be included provided that, as a minimum, a city has (a) a high
priority, as determined by the Borrower in accordance with the guidelines
provided by DNP; (b) proposed engineering works representing the least--cost
alternative; (c) a net internal contribution 1/ to the project cost of at
least 10%; and (d) a satisfactory rate of return on revalued assets based on
comprehensive financial and tariff studies. In any event, the deadline for
inclusion of new cities in the project has been set at June 30, 1980 so as
to avoid delays in project implementation.
Technological Alternatives and Service Standards
6.07      Water service standards in the project are those common to most
Latin American countries, and specifically in the case of Colombia, are in
accordance with proper management practices and with the habits and expecta-
tions of the populations benefitted. Water production schemes, main distribu-
tion facilities and sewerage works for each subproject in each city are appro-
priately staged to suit the least cost solutions. Existing facilities in most
project cities would be upgraded ancd/or expanded to extend their useful life.
Distribution networks would be extended to new areas so as to have the greatest
impact on water service coverages. These extensions are being designed to
conform with INSFOPAL's accepted standards. The project includes the construc-
tion of new waterborne sewerage systems or the extension of existing waterborne
systems in cities where: (a) the population density is too high to continue
the use of alternative existing systems; and (b) health hazards and pollution
of the environment (open channels) are significant due to the lack of intercep-
tors and adequate outfalls (Ibague and Cartago). Sewage treatment facilities
are projected for the cit:y of Sabanalarga due to the lack of appropriate
receiving water bodies arnd the need to protect its ground water sources. In
all other cities sewage will be disc:harged into receiving bodies of water
without prior treatment. Although rio immediate significant environmental
deterioration is expectec[, systems are designed in such a way as to allow the
installation of future treatment fac:ilities.
6.08      The project includes works in 11 cities in which extensions of the
water distribution networks to marginal areas would be carried out under Loan
1558-CO (First Urban Development Project). These extensions to the marginal
areas of the cities, by increasing supply, would cover latent demand. The
proposed project would satisfy demand through increased water production capa-
city and the construction of new mains.  The proposed project would also meet
the demand for sewerage in those areas.
1/   Gross internal cash generation less debt service and working capital
requirements.



- 24 -
Project Description
6.09      The project comprises the following;
(a) the construction of new facilities or optimization of
existing water treatment facilities for the cities of
Cartagena, Neiva, Monteria, Riohacha, Girardot, Copacabana,
Rio Negro, Calarca, Aguachica, Magangue, Codazzi, Pamplona,
Chiquinquira, and Espinal;
(b) the construction of pumping and transmission facilities
connecting the water production facilities of the city
of Barranquilla to the distribution system of the city
of Soledad;
(c) the improvement of water intakes, pumping stations, and
raw water transmission lines in 14 cities;
(d) the construction of additional water storage in 16 cities
with an aggregate capacity of about 60,000 m3.
(e) the extension of water distribution networks in 19 cities,
with an aggregate length of about 420 km;
(f) the construction of about 80,000 metered house water connections
in 16 cities and the purchase and installation of about 62,000
residential water meters;
(g) the purchase and installation of water production meters;
(h) the construction of sewers in 14 cities, with an aggregate
length of about 400 km;
(i) the construction of interceptors and outfalls in 11 cities
with an aggregate length of about 80 km;
(j) the construction of about 110,000 domiciliary sewerage
connections;
(k) the construction of water pumping stations in four cities
and sewage pumping stations in three cities;
(1) the construction of stabilization ponds for sewage treat-
ment in the city of Sabanalarga; and
(m)  a technical assistance program for:  (i) improvements to the
organizational procedures of INSFOPAL, under the responsibility
of its Institutional Development Unit, using consultants
as needed in the areas of planning, financing, organization,
and engineering; and (ii) improvement of the operational
capability of the EPMs and EMPOS (including the acquisition
of office and laboratory equipment) through the use of
consultant services, under the supervision of INSFOPAL's
Department of Assistance to Executing Agencies.



- 25 -
6.10      A more detailed description of the project's components, cost esti-
mates, and execution schedules is given in Annexes 1, 4, and 5. Statistical
data on consumption, historic and projected, are given in Annex 10.
6.11      The project does aot include expansion of the water supply systems
in four of the 23 cities. The cities of Valledupar, Cartago, and Sabanalarga
have no urgent need to extend their water supply systems, and works in the
city of Tumaco will be financed with domestic funds. The project does not
include sewerage works in 9 of the 23 cities. In 1977 the cities of Pasto,
Girardot, and Rio Negro had sewerage coverages of 77%, 75%, and 78% respec-
tively, and future needs will be covered by domestic financing. In the cities
of Calarca, Chiquinquira, Aguachica, Codazzi, Riohacha, and Pamplona, due to
the dispersion of their population, construction of sewerage systems would be
costly. Furthermore, as a result of the dispersion of the population in these
towns, existing individual disposal systems (septic tanks, latrines, etc.) are
acceptable.
Status of Design
6.12      Individual feasibility studies for each subproject, copies of whlich
are in the project file, were prepared by INSFOPAL with the aid of local con-
sultants. These feasibility studies were found satisfactory and were prepared
in the following manner: (a) in most of the cities there are consultants
working under contract with the water companies. In these cases the task of
INSFOPAL was to review and update the studies, adapting them to the objectLives
of the project and to the preparation guidelines left by the Bank mission
during project preparation; and (b) in the remaining cities INSFOPAL staff,
with the assistance of the consultants and the management of the respective
Empresas, reviewed preliminary studies in situ and discussed possible altesrna-
tives to produce final feasibility studies acceptable to the Bank. The feas-
ibility studies have recommended the least cost solution in each case (para.
8.08). However, in two cities, Dos Quebradas and Soledad, additional studies
would be necessary to select the least cost alternative for some project
components.
6.13      The degree of project preparation parallels the proposed implementa-
tion schedule. The EPMs and EMPOS have consultants already working on thes
preparation of final designs and those for about 30% of the project works
(mainly in the largest cities of the project area) were completed by February
1979. To assure timely implementation of the project, a schedule was agreed
on during negotiations for the preparation of final designs for each subproject.
This schedule ensures the completion of the final designs for the remaining
70% of the works by December 1979.
Cost Estimates
6.14      The estimated cost of the project is US$71.9 million equivalent.
of which US$31 million equivalent represents the estimated foreign exchange
component; interest during construction is estimated at US$15.4 million equiv-
alent. Table 6.1 gives a summary of projected investment costs for each sub-
project and for the technical assistance program. These cost estimates are



-    - 26 -
Table 6.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS FOR EACH CITY AND
FOR THE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Col$ million                  US$  million
Item                     Local      Foreign   Total     Local      Foreign      Total
Cartagena                     149.4       118.9    268.3       3.63       2.90       6.53
Ibague                         48.8        36.9     85.7       1.19       0.90       2.09
Valledupar                      67.6       43.5    111.1       1.65       1.06       2.71
Pasto                           57.6       46.4    104.0       1.41       1.13       2.54
Neiva                           45.5       33.3     78.8       1.12       0.81       1.93
Monteria                       177.9      129.1    307.0       4.34       3.15       7.49
Sincelejo                       77.9       75.0    152.9       1.91       1.83       3.74
Soledad                        69.2        45.5    114.7       1.68       1.11       2.79
Riohacha                         9.4        6.9     16.3       0.23       0.17       0.40
Girardot                       20.0        15.2     35.2       0.49       0.37       0.86
Cartago                        26.7        16.4     43.1       0.65       0.40       1.05
Copacabana                     19.5        15.5     35.0       0.48       0.38       0.86
Rio Negro                       27.5       28.7     56.2       0.67       0.70       1.37
Dos Quebradas                   39.6       23.8     63.4       0.97 -    0.58        1.55
Calarca                         10.7        7.5     18.2       0.27       0.18 -    0.45
Aguachica                       23.8       20.9     44.7       0.58       0.51       1.09
Tumnaco                         27.8       11.5     39.3       0.68       0.28       0.96
Magangue                        26.3       19.7     46.0       0.64       0.48       1.12
Codazzi                        11.0        10.4     21.4       0.28       0.25       0.53
Pamplona                        22.5       17.1     39.6       0.55       0.42       0.97
Chiquinquira                   19.6        17.5     37.1       0.49       0.42       0.91
Sabatalarga                     24.6       12.7     37.3       0.60       0.31       0.91
Espixal                         34.6       24.2     58.8       0.85       0.59       1.44
Technical Assistance Program   16.8        26.7     43.5       0.41       0.65       1.06
Construction Costs and
Technical Assistance          1054.3      803.3   1857.6      25.77      19.58      45.35
Engineering and Administration 124.7       92.3    217.0       3.03       2.25       5.28
Base Cost                    1979.0       895.6   2074.6      28.80      21.83      50.63
Physical Contingencies         176.9      134.6    311.5       4.29        3.28      7.57
Price Contingencies            672.6      497.3   1169.9       7.85       5.85      13.70
Total                    2028.5     1527.5   3556.0      40.94      30.96      71.90



- 27 -
based on January 1979 prices and include: (a) 12% of construction costs for
engineering and administration expenses related to the project; (b) 15% of
base costs for physical contingencies, which takes into account the uncertain-
ties due to the large number of subprojects; and (c) 24% of the 1979 US$58.2
million project cost for price escalation and exchange corrections.
6.15      The base cost was calculated by INSFOPAL, with the assistance of
consultants, and based on feasibility studies and costs of similar works
recently executed by INSFOPA1. and the beneficiary Empresas, updated to
January 1979. The costs were further verified by direct inquiries of civil
works contractors and equipment manufacturers.
Project Financing
6.16      The Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange component of the
project in the amount of US$31.0 million. The Government of Colombia has
agreed to provide or cause to be provide financing in the amount of US$31.7
million equivalent, or 44% of the total cost. The balance in the amount of
US$9.2 million equivalent, or 13% of the total cost, would come from internal
cash generation of the benefitted Empresas.
6.17      The Bank loan would be made to INSFOPAL, with the guarantee of the
Republic of Colombia. In turn, INSFOPAL would relend the loan proceeds to
the EPMs and EMPOS responsible for the 23 cities included in the project at
an interest rate and repayment and grace periods equal to those of the Bank.
These subborrowers would bear the foreign exchange risk.
6.18      National budget funds would be made available to INSFOPAL by the
Government, which in turn would relend these funds to the EPMs and EMPOS with
17 years' terms including four years' grace and at an annual interest rate of
18% for communities of 35,COO or more inhabitants and 12% for communities of
fewer than 35,000 inhabitants. In the case of Tumaco, however, the interest
rate would be 12%. Although this city has a population of more than 35,000, it
has a high concentration of low income population. The relending of the Bank
proceeds and of the budget funds will be carried out pursuant to subsidiary
loan agreements between INSFOPAL and, respectively, each of the EPMs or EMPOS
referred to above. Signat.re of each one of the agreements would be a condi-
tion of disbursement of loan proceeds for project expenditures incurred in the
respective city.
6.19      If costs are greater than estimated, the beneficiary EPMs and
EMPOS would be expected to cope with the overruns. Furthermore, assurances
were obtained during negotiations that. ihe Colombian Government will make
arrangements for the Borrower to be promptly provided with any additional
funds as needed to meet cost overruns. In those subprojects where the works
are completed at a lower ccst than estimated, the Bank would consider apply-
ing the resulting loan surplus to the cost of additional works or transferring
this surplus to other subprojects, to be mutually agreed upon between INSFOPAL
and the Bank in accordance with the criteria listed in para. 6.06.



- 28 -
Implementation
6.20      Physical construction included in the project would be executed
during the period 1980-83, but the institutional and operational improvements
at INSFOPAL, the EPMs and the EMPOS would be initiated in 1979. An invest-
ment schedule for the subprojects and INSFOPAL's technical assistance program
is given in Annex 2 (Chart No. 19521), indicating the design, bid, and con-
struction implementation dates for the project. Estimated annual investments
by category and by city are given in Annex 5. The project will be carried
out under the responsibility of INSFOPAL which would be in charge of the
overall supervision of the preparation and construction of the works included
in the project. Final designs and direct construction supervision are expected
to be performed by local consultants (para. 6.21) who would be hired by each EPM
or EMPOS. The executing agencies will be: (a) the respective EPM or munici-
pal EMPOS for those subprojects in cities where these institutions are autono-
mous; (b) the respective regional EMPOS or ACUAS for those subprojects in
cities where the local institution depends on these regional institutions; and
(c) INSFOPAL, for the technical assistance program.
6.21      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that subsidiary loan
agreements will provide for the use of qualified engineering consultants for
the preparation of detailed designs of the project and for supervision of
project implementation under terms of reference satisfactory to INSFOPAL
and the Bank. In those cases where the Borrower and the Bank consider that
consultants are not required for construction supervision, this supervision
will be undertaken directly by the respective EMPOS or EPM. INSFOPAL will
approve the selection of consultants, supervise their work and, in general,
assist the Empresas in the administration and execution of their subprojects.
The project contains an estimated 2,500 manmonths for construction supervision;
78 manmonths for institutional and operational improvements to INSFOPAL; and
300 manmonths for the institutional and operational improvement to EMPOS. The
estimated cost of these services in January 1979 prices is US$5.7 million.
Average cost per manmonth assumed for construction supervision, and technical
assistance to EPMs and EMPOS (expected to be carried out by local consultants)
is US$2,000, and for the technical assistance to INSFOPAL US$4,000.
6.22      Bank supervision of the project should be intensive, and at least
four supervision missions are anticipated in the first year of project exe-
cution and three in each of the following years.
Procurement
6.23      All contracts would be awarded through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines, except for civil works contracts
under US$150,000 not exceeding an aggregate of US$2.5 million equivalent which
would be awarded on the basis of competitive local bidding procedures satis-
factory to the Bank. Contracts should be let under procedures consistent with
those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" of March 1977. The Bank should review in advance invitations to
bid, bidding documents, proposals of award and final contracts with respect



- 29 -
to any contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of or afore
than US$150,000, and with r,sspect to ally contract for equipment, pipes, mate-
rials and supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more.
Foreign suppliers are expected to win most contracts for equipment and puDlps.
Local manufacturers and con:ractors are expected to win contracts for pipes
and civil works.  For bid evaluation purposes, a margin of preference of 15%
or the level of custom duties, whichevier is lower, would be allowed for equip-
ment and materials manufactured in Colombia.  Not later than 60 days before
the issue of the first tender or prequalification documents, INSFOPAL will
prepare and submit for Bank review a general procurement notice containing
the project amount for each bid, the projected date for invitation and the
forecast value in US dollars.  INSFOPAL should review this document annually
not later than April 30 of each year while goods or works remain to be procured.
Consulting services will be awarded on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank and shall be reviewed by the Bank prior to theLr award with the exception
of consulting services for the technical assistance program costing less than
US$30,000. It is expected that contracts for engineering design, construction
supervision, and assistance in situ for EMPOS and EPMs will be awarded to
local firms. Consultant services for the institutional and operational
improvement program for INSEOPAL are expected to be awarded to foreign
consultants.
Disbursement
6.24      The loan would be disbursed as follows:
(a)  equipment, materials and supplies for water and sewerage
facilities, 100% cf foreign expenditures or 37% of local
expenditures (ex-factory);
(b)  civil works for water and sewerage facilities, 37%
of total expenditures;
(c)  laboratory and office equipment for EMPs and EMPOS, 100%
of foreign expenditures or 30% of local expenditures
(ex-factory); and
(d)  consulting services, 100% of foreign expenditures or 40%
of local expenditures.
Annex 6 shows the estimated schedule of disbursements for this project and
for each subproject. It is estimated that disbursements for this project
would be completed before December 31, 1983. The closing date for the loan
would be June 30, 1984. Retroactive financing for up to US$150,000 would
reimburse INSFOPAL for consultant fees and for technical assistance to the
executing agencies incurred after February 1, 1979.
6.25      Disbursement applications would be prepared and submitted to the
Bank by INSFOPAL. All claims for withdrawal of loan proceeds should be
properly documented. Detailed procurement documentation would be reviewed
by the Bank during supervision missions.



- 30 -
Water Resources
6.26      In the city of Dos Quebradas, where water is supplied from the
existing installations of the cities of Pereira and Santa Rosa, further studies
should be made to determine the least-cost alternative taking into considera-
tion the supply for the three above-mentioned communities. Prior to signature
of the onlending agreement for the city of Dos Quebradas, INSFOPAL should give
the Bank reasonable assurances that the required volumes of water for this
city will be made available in a timely manner under a schedule satisfactory
to the Bank.
6.27      In the city of Chiquinquira, the existing water supply system owned
by the municipality is being transferred to the newly created EMPOS. This
transfer is being made against the municipality's share of the EMPOS' capital.
As a condition of disbursement for this city, the installations owned by the
municipality should be completely transferred to the EMPOS.
Environmental Aspects
6.28      There would be no adverse effects on the environment stemming from
the project. Since the expansion of water supply systems leads to increased
volumes of sewage, additional disposal facilities would need to be construc-
ted within the next few years. In those cities where sewerage systems would
be constructed, projected pollutant loads, with the exception of Cartagena,
are low when compared with the self-purification of the receiving water bodies.
However, in the case of Soledad raw sewage is being discharged in the vicinity
of the water intake of the city of Barranquilla. Assurances were given by
INSFOPAL during negotiations that: (a) final designs for the city of Soledad
will include a detailed evaluation of the impact produced on the water sources
of Barranquilla by the sewage discharges of the city of Soledad; and (b) the
Bank will be given the opportunity to comment on the result of these studies;
and (c) if works additional to those included in the project are needed to
protect Barranquilla's water sources, the Government will provide the funds
for their construction.
6.29      In the city of Cartagena a study of pollution of the Bay and proxi-
mities due to sewage and industrial discharges is underway. This study is
being undertaken by a committee created by Decree No. 689/77 of the Depart-
mental Government of Bolivar. The study is being carried out with PAHO's
assistance and FONADE financing, and its recommendation should be ready by
1980. Assurances were obtained from INSFOPAL during negotiations that the
Bank will be given the opportunity to comment on such studies prior to the
issuance of its final recommendations. The city of Girardot has its water
intake in the Magdalena River at the mouth of the Bogota River. The latter
is heavily contaminated by the sewage discharges of the city of Bogota.
The existing water treatment plant of the city of Girardot (with the addition
of improvements of the water intake included in the project) is able to
raise water quality to accepted standards. In the future, however, it will be
necessary to control the contamination of the Bogota River. The Colombian
Government is seeking external assistance to help in the financing of the
necessary works.



- 31 -
7.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Introduction
7.01      At the present time the financial position of the Borrower (INSFOPAL),
and several of the subborrowers (EMPOS and EPMs) which are to be the projiect
beneficiaries, is unsatisfactory. The recommendations and covenants proposed
under the project are designed to ensure financially viable entities and
provide a realistic and attainable financing plan for the project. Financzial
statements for INSFOPAL are presented in Annexes 13 through 15 and for the
other entities in Annexes 17 through 20.
INSFOPAL
Financial Performance
7.02      INSFOPAL's financial performance up to 1977 was unsatisfactory.  In
1975 INSFOPAL had 15 regional water and sewerage operations (direcciones
seccionales) and 18 affiliated regional or municipal empresas (ACUAS). As
shown in Table 7.1 below, INSFOPAL's principal sources of revenues in 1975
and 1976 were from water sales and sewerage services which were sufficientL to
cover the cash operating expenses of water and sewerage activities and reported
depreciation (Annex 13). During this period INSFOPAL's revenues covered only
40% of administrative and interest expenses and Government subsidies of about
Col$90 million per year made up the difference. Net financial requiremenLts
for loans and equity investments, capital expenditures and debt service
payments were all covered by Government funds (Annex 15).
Table 7.1: INSFOPAL: SUMMARY STATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENSES
(1975-1977)
(in current Col$ millions)
1975     1976      1977
Revenues:
Water and Sewerage Operations               64.5      55.8       7.5
Less:  Operating Expenses                   51.0      52.0       6.5
Depreciation                          1.9      2.0       2.0
Net Revenue from Dperations                 11.6       1.8      (1.0)
Technical and Administrative Services    17.1         34.9      42.1
Net Revenue from Materials Sales             8.1      16.3      18.1
Interest/Financial Charges                  16.9      15.8      25.7
Other                                        7.1       5.7       9.5
Net Revenues                                60.8      74.5      94.4
Administrative Expenses                     98.9    104.8    136.1
Operating (Loss)                           (38.1)   (30.3)   (41.7)
Interest/Exchange Losses                   (61.8)   (66.0)   (50.3)
Net Income (Loss)                          (99.9)   (96.3)   (92.0)
Government Subsidy                          88.0      85.9      88.1



- 32 -
7.03      One of the objectives of Decree No. 2804 was to convert INSFOPAL
into a financially viable lending entity for the water supply and sanitation
sector. As a consequence, INSFOPAL abandoned in 1977 the direct administra-
tion of most of the water and sewerage services, and only about 13% of its
previous years' revenues and expenses were accounted for (there are still some
revenues from direct operations in the sector). In that year only 8% of
INSFOPAL's total revenues were derived from direct operations in the sector.
INSFOPAL's services to municipal water authorities are becoming one of its
major sources of revenues. They include engineering design, construction
supervision, and technical assistance for which a fee equivalent of up to 10%
of the project cost is billed 1/. In the future, the major sources of revenues
will be the payment of interest of INSFOPAL's loans to EPMs and EMPOS. By
the end of 1979 INSFOPAL should be totally divested of its responsibility for
direct operation of water and sewerage services.
7.04      At the end of 1977, INSFOPAL's total assets amounted to Gol$4.3
billion of which equity investments in EMPOS and EPMs accounted for Col$2.2
billion and long-term loans for Col$1.1 billion (total project cost financed
by Loans 860-CO and 1072-CO represent Col$0.8 billion). Most of these assets
were financed by government contributions (Col$3.2 billion) and long-term
financing (Col$0.9 billion) from foreign loans. INSFOPAL's capital structure
with 77% equity is very strong and provides a sound basis for expansion of
debt financing in the future (Annex 14).
INSFOPAL's Lending Policy
7.05      INSFOPAL is incurring losses on both its service and lending oper-
ations. Regarding the former, INSFOPAL is still at an incipient stage of
providing technical and administrative services on a fee basis, and does not
make uniform charges for services rendered to EMPOS/EPMs. To ensure full cost
recovery, INSFOPAL agreed during negotiations to implement a schedule of
standard service and administration charges starting January 1, 1980, which
will be sufficient to cover INSFOPAL's direct costs of lending and technical
services plus administrative overhead. It is expected that these charges will
basically be a percentage of all equity investment and loan disbursements from
national funds plus standard fees, including administrative overhead, for
specific technical services rendered.
7.06      INSFOPAL's policy has been to utilize government contributions
exclusively to make equity investments in EMPOS and EPMs, and it is only the
proceeds of foreign exchange loans (IBRD, AID, IDB) and Government funds
utilized to cofinance projects financed with Foreign exchange loans which
have been lent to the EMPOS/EPMs. Subloans from foreign exchange loan proceeds
have been made on the same terms and conditions as the foreign exchange loan,
with the subborrower absorbing the exchange risk vis-a-vis the US dollar.
1/   Present practice is to charge 5% of the project cost for administrative
overhead expenses, and when engineering consulting services are performed,
an additional 5% is charged. However, charges are not applied uniformly.



- 33 -
INSFOPAL itself has absorb3ed the risk represented by devaluation of the US
dollar versus the currencies in which the foreign exchange loans have been
denominated.  As a result of absorbing these foreign exchange losses, which
have been substantial over the past two years, INSFOPAL's actual interest
receipts from lending operations in L977 were not sufficient to cover inter,est
payments on foreign loans. This practice has been modified in 1978 and the
subborrowers are absorbing the full exchange risk.  Measures were agreed
upon during negotiations 1:o guarantee the viability of INSFOPAL's lending
operations (para. 3.19(c)).
INSFOPAL
Financial Projections
7.07      INSFOPAL's future finances were examined on the basis of the
investment program for 1978-83 agreed upon during negotiations, includin,g
ongoing projects, the proposed project, and projects to be financed by dLomestic
funds and other international institutions (IDB and CIDA).  Financial projec-
tions for INSFOPAL have been prepared for the years 1978 through 1983 based on
the agreed onlending policy (para. 3.19(c) and Annex 16). Forecasted income
and expense statements for the years 1978 through 1983 are summarized below.
Table 7.2:  INSFOPAL:  SUMMARY STAT'EMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENSES 1978-1983
(Current Col$ millions)
1978     1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Estimated --------- Projected ------------
Revenues:
Technical and Administrative
Services                         22       62     89    115    108    122
Interest/Financial Charges         61      121    325    645    970  1,285
Other                              23       30      30     30      30     30
Total Revenues               106      213    444    790  1,108  1,437
Expenses:
Administrative Expenses           140      165    196    229    259    296
Operating Income (loss)    (34)        48    248    561    849  1,141
Interest                           78       91    141    206    264    293
Net Income (Loss)           (112)    (43)   107    355    585    848



- 34 -
Table 7.3:  INSFOPAL:  SUMMARY CASH FLOW STATEMENTS (1978-83)
(Current Col$ millions)
1978     1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Estimated  ----------- Projected -----------
Sources:
Internal Cash Generation            (34)     48    248    561    849  1,141
Loan Repayments                      38       50     87    162    191    231
Borrowings                          189     762  1,245  1,320    863    194
Government Contributions            794   1,268  1,701  2,180  2,022  2,257
Total Sources                 987   2,128  3,281  4,223  3,925  3,823
Applications
Loans                               414   1,486  2,786  3,600  3,144  3,241
Equity Investments a/               415     473    160    209    241    -
Debt Service                        103      116    193    264    330    365
Total Applications            932   2,075  3,139  4,073  3,715  3,606
Cash Surplus for Working Capital          55       53    142    150    210    217
a/   For specific projects justified on social grounds as earmarked in the
government budget.
7.08      In 1979, a sharp increase in both service and interest income is
expected, but interest expenses will also increase substantially and a net
loss is projected. Interest income is projected to continue to rise rapidly
together with INSFOPAL's lending operations, and in 1980 and in subsequent
years, INSFOPAL should be in a net income position (Table 7.2).
7.09      INSFOPAL's estimated and projected cash requirements and sources for
the years 1978 through 1983 (Annex 16) are summarized in Table 7.3.
7.10      In 1978, INSFOPAL extended loans for about Col$0.4 billion and
made equity investments of about Col$0.4 billion with funds provided by
Government budgetary allocations (Col$0.8 billion) and Bank loans (Col$0.2
billion). In subsequent years the lending program is expected to grow sub-
stantially, averaging about Col$2.9 billion annually in the years 1979-83.
These loans would be financed by foreign loans (31%), INSFOPAL's own funds
(11%) and Government contributions (58%). INSFOPAL's equity investments are
expected to decrease from Col$0.4 billion in 1978 to Col$0.2 billion in 1982
and to be negligible thereafter. After 1979 debt service will be covered by
internal cash generation and loan repayments, and no further Government
operational subsidies will be required (Annex 16).



- 35 -
7.11      The financial projections indicate that the agreed onlending policy
(para. 3.19(c)) would permit INSFOPAL to maintain a satisfactory financial
position after 1979. During the period of project implementation, INSFOPAL's
liquidity and capital structure are projected to remain strong, and on comple-
tion of the project in 1983, INSFOPAL's debt/equity ratio would be 0.30.
Subborrowers' Financial PErformance
7.12      The subborrowers under the proposed loan include five EPMs
(Cartagena, Cartago, Calarca, Monteria, and Neiva), nine regional EMPOS
(providing services in eleven project cities), four municipal EMPOS and two
ACUAS (in the process of being converted into EMPOS) providing services in
three project cities (Annex 17 through 20 contain the financial statements
of the subborrowers for the years 1975 and 1977). The financial performance
of most of the project EPMs and EMPOS has not been fully satisfactory, as
explained below.
7.13      In addition to water and sewerage services the EPMs are also in charge
of other public services such as energy, telephone, slaughterhouses, solid
wastes, market places, and recreational areas. Charges for the different public
utility services rendered are levied on users and in some cases municipal
taxes are allocated to sewerage operations in lieu of tariffs. The five EPMs
included in the proposed project had positive consolidated net incomes in 1977
(Annex 17), although financial results varied widely from one service to another.
7.14      The financial condition of four EMPOS, originally under INSFOPAL's
management as regional offices, has improved since their creation 1/.  In 1977,
Emposucre, Empoboyaca and Empocesar reported net incomes, but Emporis was
still in a loss position. Three other EMPOS (Empopasto, Empoibague, and
Empodupar) are subborrowers under Loan 1072-CO. As a result of tariff in-
creases, they were able to generate a net income in 1977.  However, covenanted
rates of return on revalued net fixed assets for FY77 were met only by
Empoibague. The financial condition of the remaining EMPOS, which previously
operated as ACUAS affiliated with INSFOPAL, were unsatisfactory.
7.15      Since the operations of the implementing EMPOS include municipali-
ties other than the project municipalities, and the EPMs and EMPOS provide
services other than water and sewerage, the overall financial viability of
the EMPOS and EPMs must be assured. It was agreed during negotiations tlhat
INSFOPAL, through the onleading agreements will cause those subborrowers which
have responsibility for more than one municipality and/or service to provide
assurances that total revenues from all cities and services will be sufficient
to cover all operating and maintenance expenses, working capital requirements,
and debt service starting in 1980 2/.
1/   In general EMPOS operate market places and slaughterhouses, and provide
solid waste disposal in addition to the provision of water supply and
sewage disposal.
2/   Consolidated financiaL projections have not been prepared for all the
EMPOS due to the large number of municipalities and services they are
responsible for. Financial projections for all EMPOS are being prepared
under the executing agencies' strengthening program (FOREC) (para. 4.07).



- 36 -
7.16      The recent financial performance of the project cities in the
provision of water and sewerage services has varied widely. Financial results
for 1977 were satisfactory in more than half of the project beneficiary cities,
their operating ratios being in the range of 24% to 88%, rates of return 1/
in the range of 0.5% to 7.2%, and their current ratios showing satisfactory
short-term liquidity. Most other cities had acceptable operating ratios and
current ratios, but their rates of return were not satisfactory.
Water and Sewerage Tariffs
7.17      Tariff levels and structures are proposed by the EMPOS and EPMs
and submitted usually through INSFOPAL to the National Tariff Board for
approval. The Tariff Board is administratively under the National Planning
Office, which has established the following general policies and objectives
for the entities providing water and sewerage services;
(i) achievement of financial viability;
(ii) achievement of technical and administrative efficiency; and
(iii) a fair distribution of tariffs and charges among consumers in
accordance with their capacity to pay.
Tariff structures in most of the project beneficiary cities are basically
similar. Consumers are classified into four categories: residential, commer-
cial, industrial, and official. Charges for residential consumption incor-
porate a fixed charge for basic consumption (normally 15-25 m3) which in-
creases with higher property valuation. Excess consumption charges are
typically the same for all categories of residential consumers, but differ
from one city to another. Basic consumption charges for commercial, indus-
trial, and government consumers are greater than for residential users, while
charges for excess consumption are generally similar. Charges for sewerage
services are a fixed percentage of the water bills, normally 30% to 50%.
Annex 22 shows the tariff structures in the 23 project beneficiary cities.
Average water tariff levels in the project beneficiary cities were in 1977
among the lowest in Latin America, ranging from Col$0.90/m3 (US$0.02/m3) in
Copacabana and Aguachica to Col$3.34/ml (US$0.09/m3) in Cartagena.  Water and
sewerage average revenues per m3 sold do not differ significantly from those
for water alone, due to limited sewerage services. In 1977 the lowest com-
bined average was Col$1.14/m3 (US$0.03) in Copacabana and the highest
Col$4.34/m3 (US$0.12/m3) in Cartagena.
Proposed Revenue Covenants for the Project Beneficiary Cities
7.18      Substantial tariff increases are necessary in most of the cities
for the successful implementation of the project. To ensure short term finan-
cial viability and a rational basis for longer run tariff structures and levels
1/   Computed on revalued net fixed assets as estimated by the appraisal
mission.



- 37 -
the Government and INSFOPAL agreed during negotiations to cause INSFOPAL's
subborrowers (EPMs and EMIOS) to raise water supply and sewerage tariffs in
each beneficiary city for 1979 to levels as recommended in Annex 23 in
accordance with the following schedu:Le: (i) EPMs and EMPOS have agreed to
raise tariffs to the above-mentioned levels and have sent the respective
applications for these increases to INSFOPAL; (ii) INSFOPAL has approvecd and
recommended the tariff increases for the 23 cities to the National Tarif-f
Board, of which eight have already been sanctioned by the latter; and (iii)
each EPM and EMPOS will, as a condition of disbursement of the loan proceeds
for each city, approve and implement the respective tariff increase. In
addition, assurances were obtained during negotiations from the Government and
INSFOPAL regarding the foLlowing measures which will apply to the water supply
and sewerage services in each beneficiary city:
(a)  financial viability criteria to be applicable in 1980 and
subsequent years, assuring sufficient revenues to cover
operating expenses, working capital requirements and debt
service, and a ,:ontribution to capital expenditures 1/;
(b)  INSFOPAL and the project subborrowers will complete not
later than Octo'er 1979, financial and tariff studies
for the period 1980-85 under terms of reference satis-
factory to the 3ank. Thes,e studies will recommend tariff
structures and levels in conformity with the financial
viability criteria, and take into account inter alia the
following factors:
(i) revision oE property assessments to ensure con-
sumers are in the proper billing category with
respect to property values;
(ii) progressivity of charges for domestic consumption
to discourage water waste and to keep the minimum
charge affDrdable to the poor;
(iii) cross subsidies by colmmercial and industrial con-
sumers to low-income residential consumers; and
(iv) sewerage service charges should be set in accordance
with the EPMs' and EIPOS' capital investment and
operational costs;
(c) on completion of these financial and tariff studies, speci-
fic annual rates of return for each city will be agreed upon
and included in each subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
1/   Interest during construction plus 25% of project cost by those
cities previously benefitted with Bank loans and having over 100,000
inhabitants, or 10% Df project cost by those cities not previously
benefitted with Bank loans.



- 38 -
(d)  INSFOPAL and the subborrowers must prepare an inventory of
assets in operation, properly valued, prior to September 30,
1979 in order that the results may be incorporated in the tariff
study, and thereafter continue to revalue assets annually by
the application of the Highways Construction Cost Index issued
by the Ministry of Public Works. This index, already used in
previous loans, is adequate.
7.19      Three of the project cities will require separate treatment.  For
Monteria, tariff increases necessary to cover cash requirements not met by
INSFOPAL loans are too large to be implemented during the construction period
of the project despite increased allocations of revenues from municipal taxes.
INSFOPAL should, as a condition of subsidiary loan agreement approval, furnish
to the Bank satisfactory evidence that any cash shortfalls for the city of
Monteria would be covered by an additional loan on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank or additional municipal taxes
to be levied and collected by the beneficiary. The cities of Ibague and
Cartago will partially finance their sewerage works through valorization
(betterment levies). Because there have in the past been difficulties in
collecting valorization, it was agreed during negotiations that INSFOPAL
should, as a condition of disbursement for those cities, furnish the Bank
satisfactory evidence that legal arrangements for the collection of these
levies have been made, and that all the water supply agencies for each city
will charge and collect in a timely manner such amounts as shall be consistent
with their financial requirements and normal valorization practices.
Projected Finances of the Project Beneficiary Cities
7.20      Financial projections have been prepared for the water and sewerage
operations for each of the project cities for the years 1978 to 1986. The
key financial data and the underlying basic assumptions are presented in
Annexes 10 and 12. Detailed financial statements are available in the project
file. These projections are based on 1977 financial results provided by
INSFOPAL. Given the poor accounting systems of these entities and the lack
of uniform accounting guidelines, the projections at this stage are only
indicative of expected financial performance. Accordingly, establishment
of actual tariff level and rate of return objectives will only be undertaken
after completion of the financial and tariff studies for each city (para.
7.18) which will be based on more current and reliable data.
7.21      The average tariffs incorporated into the forecasts (Annex 23) have
been derived from projections of operating expenses and cash requirements, with
revenues established in accordance with the proposed financial viability cri-
teria (para. 7.18). During the project implementation period (1980-83) all
cities are projected to be in a net income position. By 1984 all cities would
be able to cover operating expenses and debt service, and would be expected
to produce rates of return on revalued fixed assets over 4%. These results
will be achieved mainly by tariff restructuring and classifying consumers into
categories with higher basic charges, and the cost increase to the urban poor
will be minimal.



- :39 -
7.22      It is estimated that four of the five cities with subprojects
financed under Loans 860-CO and 1072--CO which are borrowers under the proposed
loan will comply with their existing rate of return commitments for 1979 1/.
One city, however, (Neiva) based on projected cash requirements, will not need
to raise tariffs by the amount now required to meet the specified 6% rate of
return in 1979, and Neiva will be accorded the same treatment as the new
project cities with its 1979 tariff :increase agreed upon during negotiations
(para. 7.18).  In 1980 and subsequent years, all five cities will be required
to meet the rate of return objectives established under the proposed loan
(para. 7.18(c)).
Financing Plan
7.23      The consolidated financing plan for the 23 project beneficiary
cities during the construction period (1980-83) is summarized in Table 7.4.
Annex 21 shows the financing plan for each project beneficiary city.
7.24      The financing p:Lan provides for net internal cash generation t:o
finance about 27% of investment (inc:Luding interest during construction). A
principal risk in implementing the project is the potential. delay of any sub-
project which may result from inadequate internal cash generation by the
executing agencies. To m:inimize this risk INSFOPAL may furnish the EPMs and
EMPOS, in agreement with the Bank, wiLth additional financing which would
include interest during construction..
1/   Cartagena (4.0%), Ibague (3.6%)., Pasto (3.4%) and Valledupar (3.4%) under
Loan 1072-CO.



- 40 -
Table 7.4:  FINANCING PLAN (1980-1983)
(Current $ Million)
Col$       US$        %
Requirements
Project Investment                     3,556       71.9       79
Interest during Construction             757       15.4       17
Other Works                               199       4.3        4
Total                             4,512       91.6      100
Sources
Internal Cash Generation               2,281       47.3
Less:  Debt Service (other projects)   775         15.9
Working Capital Req.              308        6.3
Internal Contribution to
Investments                         1,198       25.1       27
IBRD Loan                              1,527       31.0       34
IBRD Loan (other projects)                 14       0.3        -
INSFOPAL Loan                          1,607       31.7       36
INSFOPAL Loan (other projects)           101        2.2        2
Other Contributions                       65        1.3        1
Total                             4,512       91.6     100
Financial Monitoring and Reporting Requirements
7.25      The present financial projections have been used as the basis for
preparing preliminary monitoring indicators (Annex 10). These monitoring
indicators will be revised after completion of the tariff studies and will
be used as the basis for evaluating the financial aspects of project implemen-
tation. Assurances regarding the establishment of firm monitoring indices
were obtained during negotiations along with assurances on the following
reporting requirements: (a) INSFOPAI, will furnish to the Bank every six
months, a financial report containing detailed information and comments on the
compliance by the subborrowers of all financial covenants and monitoring
indicators. The report will include financial projections including statements
of cash flow, for at least five fiscal years; and (b) INSFOPAL will furnish to
the Bank, on June 30 of each fiscal year, a financial report containing
financial projections for at least five years, which should include all its
investments and financing programs.



- 41 -
8.   ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
8.01      The proposed prDject constitutes an essential part of the socio-
economic development efforts of Colombia.  It will meet the selected cities'
needs for water supply and sewage collection and disposal, enhancing the
living and health conditiDns of those cities, especially for the inhabilants
of the lower income areas. At the same time, the project supports the Gov-
ernment's policy of improving living standards in medium and small size
cities to achieve a more )alanced urban development.  The proposed project
will also help improve the planning and implementation capabilities of the
sector's institutions in order to accelerate the development of the sector
and achieve the Government's goals for 1990 (para. 2.18).
8.02      The project fully conforms with the Bank's policy of raising the
living standards of the low income population and helping the process of'
institution building. It puts speci.al emphasis on the application of sound
financial policies in the sector so that the project could be replicatecd in
different cities without placing an excessive burden on Government finances.
Population Benefitted and Urban Poverty Impact
8.03      The project wouLd provide water supply through house connections
to about 473,000 additional inhabitants in 19 cities by 1983 and sewerage
services to about 654,000 additional inhabitants of 14 cities by 1983. It
is estimated that about 47% of the additional population to be served with
water and about 50% of the incremental population to be provided with sewer-
age services belong to the urban poverty target group, defined as people
earning less than one-third of the Colombian national per capita income 1/.
Detailed information on the impact of the project on the urban poverty group,
including a map showing the location of the urban poor in each city, and on
the methodology used for its estimation, is in the project file. Table 8.1
gives a summary of the incremental population and the percentage of urban
poor to be served by city.
1/   Estimated national per capita income for 1977:  Col$22,738.  One-third
adjusted to December 1977 prices:  Col$8,549, or approximately US$200.00.



- 42 -
Zah2&.L   I8C83IIAL POPLATION SERVFD 8Y TrE PWOJ8CT  *  1983
Urban, Po,                  -_                  WA_TER _1W91.__                                  --                       VUAnE
8s',ulatioo 19h3           Urban Pooe                 Others                  Total               Urban Poor            - Otheri_   Tal
Cotz                   OoNubeo       z        NOb,er         X        Nuber          X         ______       S Number                S         NNumb       _S_ HuWhe  _x
C.rtogeoa               219,153      45.6        15,600      62.6         9,400      37.6        25,000      100        58,892      45.6        701058    54.4          129,000    180
Tb.gu-                  116,940      39.0        30.565      37.4        51,055      62.6        81,620      100        27.133      35.2        49.797      64.8         76,930    100
Volledoper         8~~0,464    50.0              -        -              -        -              -       -        52.951      61.3        13.328      38.7         56,179    100
7',tedp                  80 77.447   46.0        16,239      44.6        20,179      55.4        36,418      100              -         -             -        -.
N1iv-                    55,351      32.2        18,336      38.3        29,564      61.7        47,900      100         9,430      27.0        25,450      73.0         34,880    100
9-otori.                 76,097      52.2        23,728      57.6        17,430      42.4        41,158      100        33.510      60.7        34,591      39.3         88.071    190
Sin-eleeJ                46,158      40.6        21,810      47.8        73,764      52.2        45,574      100        19.580      50.3        19.334      49.7         88,914    100
Soled.d                  53,907      50.2        19.186      50.5        18,814      49.5        38,000      100        26.187      13.7        22,497      46.3         45,579    100
Rih-eh.                 15,750      44.1         6 223      45.4         7,494      54.6        13,717      100                       -              -        -
i-eordot                 31,928      44.6         3:821      40.1         5,712      59.9         3,533      100              -        -              -        -
Cart.go                  4?,547      48.4   1-                                 -        -              -       -        t0,050      47.3        11,160      52.7         21,210    100
Co.pc-b.a.               18,725      39.3         7.131      41.0        10,281      59.0        17,412      100         6,560      42.8         8,826      57.4         15.386    100
Rio Negro                30,705      67.5         9,600     83.1          1,961      16.9        11,561      100             -         -              _           _
D..                      42ebroko  42,706  39.2,  14,830     41.8        20,599      58.2        35,429      100        11,357     41.3         16,149      58.7         21.500    100
Ag-achic-                16.840      61.5   !   3,949        67.9         1,865      32.1         5,817      100             -         -              -        _
Colorc-                  21,419      33.1         4,194      31.2         9,224      68.8        *3.418      100
Tu',oco.                 43,007      74.8   j          _                                                                23,792      68.9        10.727      31.1         34.519   100
Hagan9uo                 17.020      36.3         6,659      49.5         6,785      50.5        13,444      100         8.370      44.5        10.426      55.5         18,796    100
Codoeci                 91,283       47.0         3.485     38.0          5.690     62.0          9,175      100             -                -           -
7'oo,plo.,.o             70,931      46.4         8,268     63.8          4,684      36.2        12,952      100
M5iq,i.qoir-             10,765      35.8         2,115     41.4          2,992      58.5         5,107     100                   -           -         _
S.beoa-IRg               19.698      55.4             -         -             -         -             -        -       11.847      55.5          9,484     44.5          21.331    100
,pio-l        _         2_2 L20      4.3         46947      51.2          4.720     48.8          9,667     100          6 188     47.5          6 833     52.5          13 tU 1    10
]1,779.100     45.0      220,686      46.7       252,716      53.3       472,902      100       3      1    49.8        37695        50.2         654.416    100
Sorre.-  TNSIFOPAT,  -od o1-io-  .stitste,.
8.04                  The share of urban poor served with water house connections will rise
from 68% in 1978 to 74% in 1983. Over the same period, the share of urban poor
connected to a sewerage system will rise from 38% to 59%. The population which
would still be without service in 1983 live on the outer limits of the water
and sewerage networks. It is the policy of the utility companies to supply
this population with water standpipes until a more complete service is avail-
able. Similarly, these areas which have low population density and minimal
water consumption will be provided with temporary individual systems in the
sanitation area, for example, latrines and septic tanks. The Bank supports
and will encourage these provisional actions by the Colombian authorities.
8.05                  In addition to the provision of services through new connections
the project would improve the quality of present services by eliminating water
rationing (which is severe in many of the project cities) and by improving
water quality. Furthermore, expansion of water production and main distribu-
tion facilities as well as provision of sewer interceptors and outfalls will
permit extensions of the secondary networks to cope with future population
increases until 1990.



- 43 -
Affordability of Project Services for the Urban Poor
8.06      Present water ar.d sewerage tariffs for basic use (between 15 m3/
month and 25 m3/month) in the project cities, are low (Annex 22). Table 8.2
shows, by city, the percentage of population that, given the present water and
sewerage charges for basic consumption, would have to spend more than 3% of
their family income on water or more than 5% on water and sewerage for basic
consumption (assuming 100% of the population are served).
Table 8.2: AFFORDABILITY OF BASIC CONSUMPTION
Percentage of
Population
Paying
Charge for Basic                      more than
Consumption 1978 a/    Paying more  .5% for
Basic                        Water        than 3%      Water and
City            Consumption       Water       & Sewerage    for Water   S,ewerage
(m3/month)          (Col$/month)
Cartagena              15              15            22           4.9          4.3
Soledad               20               70            91          26.2         16.4
Sabanalarga           20               65            84          20.3         14.8
Valledupar             25              22            31           11.0          9.3
Codazzi                20              30            42          14.0         :11.8
Aguachica              20              23            32          13.8         111.5
Riohacha               15              46            60          15.6          L2.0
Sincelejo             20               55            66          17.4         12.4
Magangue               15              70            91          13.4         10.0
Monteria               20              15            21           5.9          5.0
Chiquinquira          25               25            30           1.6          0.5
Pamplona               20              20)           26           1.8          1.4
Rio Negro              20              28            36           7.5          5.4
Copacabana            20               35            45           NA           NA
Ibague                15               30            42           6.9          5.8
Espinal                20              25            32          10.1          7.8
Girardot               20              18            23           5.4          4.1
Cartago               20               14            19           5.3          4.4
Calarca                20                             7           0.5          0.4
Neiva                 20               14            18           3.6          2.8
Dos Quebradas          20              21L           25           5.8          4.1
Tumaco                20               1(            24           NA           NA
Pasto                 20               14            18           NA           NA
a/   For properties with current values of Col$20,000.  (It is estimated that
almost 100% of the low-income population have properties with this
cadastral value or lower.)
Source:  INSFOPAL and mission estimates.



- 44 -
8.07      Present tariff levels will have to be substantially increased to
permit the financial viability of the EPMs and EMPOS (para. 7.18). Although
about 47% of the additional population to be provided with water services are
within the urban poverty target group, it is estimated that they will consume
only 26% of the incremental water consumption. This low percentage would allow
increases in average tariff levels through more progressive tariff structures
which would not affect the low-income group (cross-subsidization of low con-
sumption dwellers). Furthermore, basic consumption can be lowered without
jeopardizing the satisfaction of basic needs. These criteria should be given
special consideration in the cities of Soledad and Sabanalarga, where the per-
centage of population to be potentially affected by tariff increases is esti-
mated to be higher. The above considerations will be included in the tariff
studies to be undertaken by INSFOPAL, the EPMs and EMPOS (para. 7.18).
Least-Cost Solution
8.08      Most of the feasibility studies presented by INSFOPAL and reviewed
by the Bank include the least-cost means of meeting water supply and sewerage
demands for the selected cities. The expansion of existing facilities has
been designed so that their useful life can be extended at a minimum cost
(para. 6.07). In those cases where more than one solution appeared technically
feasible, a comparison of alternatives was made. In specific cases where these
comparisons did not lead to a clear definition of the least-cost alternative,
such as in water production and main distribution facilities for the cities
of Dos Quebradas and Soledad, a detailed quantitative analysis will be included
in the final design studies (paras. 6.26 and 6.28).
Incremental Rates of Return and Marginal Cost
8.09      Incremental rates of return were calculated by city for the project's
investments in water supply and in water supply and sewerage combined. No rate
of return was estimated for the cities of Tumaco, Cartago, Sabanalarga, and
Valledupar (where the project includes investments in sewerage only) since
sewerage tariffs are charged as a percentage of the water tariff and do not
reflect benefits that the users assign to the sewerage service separately.
8.10      Incremental rates of return were calculated under two alternatives.
The first uses tariffs of 1978 as an indication of demonstrated minimum wil-
lingness to pay. The second uses projected tariffs that would be in effect
to comply with required financial covenants. Annex 24 presents the incre-
mental rates of return by city.
8.11      Incremental rates of return, using 1978 tariffs to estimate benefits,
vary widely among cities, and with the exception of two cities, they are sig-
nificantly lower than the country's estimated shadow discount rate (11%). In
addition to the nonquantification of important benefits (para 8.12), two major
factors explain these low incremental rates. First, investments directed
toward improving services to people already connected are not included as
incremental benefits, but their associated costs are. Second, present tariff
levels are low by any standards (para. 7.17), and as can be seen from Annex 25
they are on average considerably lower for most cities than the estimated
long-run average incremental costs (at a discount rate of 11%).



- 45 -
8.12      Annex 24 also includes incremental rates of return estimated on the
basis of the projected tariff levels for each city. The estimated aggregate
incremental rate of return for the subprojects is 13% and their cost US$49.7
million, or 85% of the total project cost. No rate of return was estimated
for subprojects that include sewerage only (para. 8.09), the cost of which is
US$7.3 million, or 13% of the total project cost; nor was it estimated for
the technical assistance program, the cost of which is US$1.2 million, or 2%
of the total project cost. All costs are exclusive of price escalation. In
all cases these incremental rates of return are close to the country's shadow
discount rate, giving a rough indication of the appropriateness of the projected
tariff levels in terms of resource allocation. Benefits were estimated accord-
ing to the tariff charged for the services which do not reflect economic and
social benefits in full. Benefits such as improvements in public health,
increase in labor productivity, and environmental improvement are either not
reflected or are only partially reflected in the tariff paid for these services.
Furthermore, benefits measured by tariffs exclude the measurement of the
consumers' surplus which is necessarily high for that portion of the consump-
tion to meet basic needs. Tariff studies for each city will include detailed
calculations of long-run average incremental costs and a comparison with
tariff levels and structures (Annex 11). To improve resource allocation,
these studies will attempt to set marginal tariffs as close as possible to
long-run average incremental costs, within the constraints of the need for
financial viability and the population's ability to pay (Annex 11, para. 2).
Annex 25 presents a comparison of long-run average incremental costs andi
tariffs by city.
Project Sensitivity and Risks
8.13      Sensitivity of the incremental rates of return with respect to
changes in investment costs and in benefits was measured for each city (in-
formation in project file). These rates are highly sensitive to changes in
revenues. Demands have been projected on the basis of historic consumption
pattern and actual demands are not expected to deviate significantly from
projections. Projected tariff levels, although achievable, represent signifi-
cant increases over prevailing tariffs. Failure to implement these tariff
charges and structures constitutes a project risk that could jeopardize the
timely execution of a particular subproject and the broader objective of-
sector development. Special attention should be paid by the Colombian autho-
rities and by the Bank to this matter in order to ensure that financial
principles of self-sufficiency will be followed by each beneficiary.
8.14      The major risk of the project is connected with the Bank's previous
experience with INSFOPAL and the EMPOS and EPMs which has shown that they are
unable to keep pace with the rapid growth of demand for sector services, a
weakness that could delay project exescution. Actions already taken by the
Government and to be taken in agreemesnt with the Bank in conjunction with the
technical assistance component included in the proposed loan, alleviate this
risk. While corrective action may be difficult to implement in a short time
span, and could delay impLementation of an individual subproject, the broader
objectives of the whole project would still be achieved, thereby accelerating
and rationalizing sector development.



- 46 -
8.15      The project presents only minor technical risks since most of the
works do not involve special engineering requirements and the country has a
well developed construction industry. Furthermore, final designs are well ad-
vanced and their progress will be closely monitored during project execution.
8.16      Overall, the project presents higher than average risks which could,
however, be alleviated by close supervision. In addition, the project is
essential for sector development in the country, so it can be said that the
sectoral benefits which would result from the project justify the risks.
9.        AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During loan negotiations, agreements were obtained:
From the Colombian Government and INSFOPAL that:
(a)  a comprehensive sector development program for the areas under
INSFOPAL's jurisdiction will be completed not later than
June 30, 1980, (para. 3.19(b));
(b)  measures will be taken to attain financial viability in future
lending operations in INSFOPAL (para. 3.19(c));
(c)  budgetary funds for an amount equivalent to not less than
US$31.7 million will be provided under a schedule agreed
upon with the Bank (para. 3.19(d));
(d)  the Government will provide additional funds as needed to
meet cost overruns (para. 6.19);
(e)  measures to ensure full cost recovery of administrative
overhead and services rendered by INSFOPAL as detailed in
para. 7.05 will be taken; and
(f)  the financial viability criteria agreed upon will be
applied to all EPMs and EMPOS participating in the project
(para. 7.18);
From INSFOPAL that:
(a) (i) the Bank will be given the opportunity to comment on the
terms of reference proposed for INSFOPAL's training
program not later than September 30, 1979 (para. 3.06);
(ii) that this program will be initiated not later than
December 31, 1979 (para. 3.06); and
(iii) in case of failure in obtaining CIDA financing the
Government of Colombia will provide alternative sources
of financing (para. 3.06);
(b) it will hire or cause the EPMs and EMPOS to hire external
auditors under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank
(paras. 3.13 and 4.13);



- 47 -
(c)  it will maintain or cause the EPMs and EMPOS to maintain
adequate insurance coverages on all assets financed by the
Bank (para. 3.14);
(d)  the tasks included in Annex 9 will be performed by the
Institutional Developmlent Unit and its recommendations will
be implemented by INSI'OPAL according to the schedule agreed
upon with the Bank (para. 3.18(a) and Annex 9);
(e)  it will not: undertake or finance, without the Bank's agreement,
any increase higher than 5% in its projected annual investment
included in a mutually agreed investment program for the period
1978-83, which program shall be:
(i) consist:ent with INSFOPAL's absorptive capacity as
determined during negotiations; and
(ii) reviewed annually by the Government, the Bank, and
INSFOPAL and revised as may be agreed among them
(para. 3.20);
(f)  it will cause the EPMs and EMPOS to introduce bookkeeping
improvemenl:s not later than October 31, 1979 to permit
full disclosure of the origin and application of funds (by
city and type of service provided, para. 4.13) and that water
and sewerage revenues received by a subborrower generated by
a municipa:Lity included in the project must not be diverted
to another municipality or service, with the exception
of revenues in excess of requirements (para. 4.13);
(g)  measures satisfactory to the Bank will be taken or caused to be
taken by the project's beneficiaries so as to progressively
reduce unaccounted-for water from the present levels to 25% by
1986 (para. 5.12);
(h) consultantrs with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank will
be hired for the preparation of final designs and construction
supervision for the proposed project (para. 6.21);
(i)  required volumes of water will be made available for the city
of Dos Que'radas (para. 6.26);
(j)  an evaluation of the impact of sewage discharges of the city
of Soledad on the water sources of Barranquilla will be in-
cluded in the final designs of the sewerage works in the city
of Soledad and if additional works are required the Government
will provide, or cause funds to be provided for their construc-
tion (para. 6.28);
(k)  the Bank will be given the opportunity to comment before
issuance of the recommendations stemming from the studies
of the pollution of the Cartagena Bay (para. 6.29);



- 48 -
(1) for those subborrowers which have responsibility for more
than one municipality and/or service, overall revenues will
be sufficient to cover operating and maintenance costs, work-
ing capital requirements and debt service (para. 7.15);
(m)  tariff studies for each city for the period 1980-85 including
an implementation schedule will be presented to the Bank not
later than October 31, 1979 (para. 7.18). These tariff
studies will serve as a basis for the establishment of the
rate of return covenant and the monitoring indicators to be
included in each subsidiary loan agreement (para. 7.18(c));
(n) it will cause the subborrowers to prepare an inventory of
assets in operation prior to September 30, 1979 (para. 7.18(d));
(o) any cash shortfalls for the city of Monteria would be covered
by additional lending on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank and/or additional property taxes (para. 7.19); and
(p) it will furnish to the Bank financial reports and statements
with the periodicity agreed upon with the Bank (para. 7.25).
9.02      The following conditions of effectiveness were specified:
(a)  the Borrower has appointed a Sub-Director General in its
organization (para. 3.19(a));
(b)  the Borrower has appointed the staff of the Institutional
Development Unit (para. 3.19(a)); and
(c)  the Borrower has appointed the staff of the internal audit
section (para. 3.12).
9.03      The following conditions of disbursement were specified:
(a)  for each city, presentation of a plan for the improvement
of the respective EPM or EMPOS (para. 4.12);
(b)  signature of the respective subsidiary loan agreement (para. 6.18);
(c)  for the city of Chiquinquira, the installations owned by the
municipality should be completely transferred to the EMPOS
(para. 6.27);
(d)  for each city, the appropriate EPM or EMPOS should approve
and implement the respective tariff increase for 1979
(para. 7.18); and
(e)  for the cities of Ibague and Cartago, INSFOPAL should present
to the Bank satisfactory evidence that each of these Empresas
will charge and collect betterment levies in amounts according
to their financial requirements and that all legal arrangements
for the collection of these levies be made (para. 7.19).



- 49 -
9.04      Provided the foregoing conditions are met, the proposed project will
be suitable for a Bank loan of US$31 million. The terms would be 17 years'
maturity, including four years' grace.



- 50 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 8
COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Proposed Works
This annex briefly describes the proposed works in each of the
cities; cost are given in Annex 4. Annual investments during the construction
period are given in Annex 5. The following are the components of the different
subprojects:
1.   Cartagena
- construction of the second stage (0.66 m3/sec) of the new
"El Bosque" Treatment Plant;
-  innerlining of the existing transmission line (41 km)
from Gambote to the "El Bosque" Treatment Plant;
- capacity increases of raw water pumping stations (Juan Gomez
and Albornoz);
-  protection works in the Dolores Channel (about 4,800 m);
- installation of about 12 km of water distribution mains;
- extension of about 40 km to the water distribution network;
- purchase and installation of about 3,000 water meters; and
- construction of about 34 km of collector sewers and 6 km of sewer
interceptors.
This subproject is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
2.   Ibague
- construction of three water storage tanks with a total
capacity of about 9,000 m3; and
- construction of about 18 km of sewer interceptors.
This subproject is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.



- 'i1 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 8
3.   Valledupar
- interceptors and conduits for Sur, Norte, Simon Bolivar, and
Fundadores with a total length of about 24.5 km;
- construction of about 87 km of collector sewers; and
- construction of about 9,000 sewerage connections.
This subproject is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
4.   Pasto
- construction of two water storage tanks with a total capacity
of about 4,800 m3;
- installation of about 9 km of water transmission and distribution
mains;
- extension of about 64 km to the water distribution network;
- purchase and installation. of 6,000 water meters; and
- measuring equipment for the water treatment plant.
This subproject is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
5.   Neiva
-  improvement and extensiorL of water intakes from 1,200 1/sec
caoacity to about 1,400 I/sec and about 6,800 m of raw water
transmission lines;
-  expansion of the water treatment plant from 320 1/sec to about
820 1/sec;
- installation c,f about 8 km of water distribution mains;
-  purchase and installation of about 3,000 water meters;
-  leak detection equipment;
- La Toma interc:eptor (about 2.2 km in length); and
- construction of about 11 km of sanitary sewers and about 1,500
domiciliary connections.
This subproject is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.



- 52 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 8
6.   Monteria
- equipment and construction of a raw water pumping station
with a capacity of 750 1/sec;
- expansion of a water treatment plant from a capacity of 264 1/sec
to about 514 1/sec;
-  construction of one reservoir with a capacity of about 6,000 m3;
-  installation of about 6 km of water distribution mains;
-  extension of about 35 km to the water distribution networks;
-  purchase and installation of about 11,000 water meters and 4,000
water connections;
- construction of two sewerage pumping stations; and
- construction of about 9 km of sewage interceptors, 42 km of sewers
and 9,000 domiciliary connections.
This subproject is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
7.   Sincelejo
- construction of about 5,200 m3 of additional water storage capacity;
- expansion of the capacity of two booster pumping stations up to
about 420 1/sec and 250 lsec capacity, respectively;
-  construction of two water transmission lines of about 8 and 6 km,
respectively;
-  extension of the water distribution network of about 33 km;
- purchase and installation of about 7,000 water meters and 4,000
house connections;
- purchase and installation of an electrodiesel plant and
maintenance equipment; and
- construction of about 32 km of collector sewers and 7 km of
interceptors.
This subproject is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
!



- 53-                            ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 8
8.   Soledad
- equipment and construction of a pumping station with a capacity
of about 170 I/sec, an electric plant and two transmission lines
from the water treatment plant in Barranquilla to the distribution
tanks in the city of Soledad of 1 km and 1.6 km, respectively;
-  extension of the water distribution network of about 23 km;
- purchase and installation of about 4,600 water meters;
- construction of two water storage tanks with a total capacity of
about 3,200 m3;
- construction of about 33 km of sewers and 2 km of interceptors; and
- extension of the existing sewerage pumping station and construction
of a new station.
This subproject is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
9.   Riohacha
- construction of four filtration units in the water treatment
plant with a combined capacity of about 90 I/sec;
- equipment and construction of a water pumping station with a
capacity of about 225 I/sec;
-  extension of the water distribution network of about 11 km; and
- purchase and installation of about 4,000 water meters.
This subproject is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
10. Girardot
- construction of a new water intake with a capacity of about
400 I/sec and purchase and installation of raw water pumping
equipnent;
- upgrading of the existing water treatment plant from 260 1/sec
to about 400 l/sec;
- construction of a water storage tank with a capacity of about
3,200 rr,3;
- installation of about 2 km of water distribution mains;



- 54 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 8
-  extension of the water distribution network by about 19 km; and
- purchase and installation of about 1,700 water meters.
This subproject is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
11. Cartago
-  construction of about 3.7 km of sewers and about 3.9 km of inter-
ceptors; and
-  construction of about 1,000 domiciliary connections.
This subproject is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.
12. Copacabana
-  expansion of the water treatment plant from a capacity of 60 l/sec
to about 196 I/sec;
-  improvements in the water intake, grit chamber, and raw water
transmission facilities;
-  construction of a 1,900 m3 water reservoir;
-  extension of the water distribution networks of about 12 km;
-  purchase and installation of about 2,000 water meters and 2,000
house connections; and
- construction of about 8 km of sanitary sewers.
This subproject is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
13. Rio Negro
- construction of a new water treatment plant with a capacity of
about 187 l/sec;
- construction of a 1,500 m treated water transmission line;
- construction of a water storage tank with a capacity of about
1,200 m3; and
- improvement and extension of about 12 km to the water distribution
network.
This subproject is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.



ANNEX 1
-    -                            Page 6 of 8
14. Dos Quebradas
-  construction of two watel, storage tanks with a combined capacity
of about 2,70() m3;
-  improvement and extension of about 32 km to the water distribution
network;
-  purchase and Lnstallation of about 4,000 water meters; and
-  construction of about 23 km of sewers and interceptors and 3,900
domiciliary connections.
This subproject Ls expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
15. Calarca
- construction of a 1,300 in raw water transmission line;
- expansion of the water treatment plant from a capacity of
100 I/sec to about 240 1/sec;
- improvement and extension of about 9 km to the water distribution
network; and
- purchase and installation of about 3,200 water meters.
This subproject is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
16. Aguachica
construction of the first stage of the water treatment plant
with a capacity of about 110 1/sec;
construction of a grit chamber with a capacity of 80 1/sec and a
1,600 in raw water transmission line;
construction of a water storage tank with a capacity of about
2,200 m3;
improvement and extension of about 8 km to the water distribution
network; and
purchase and installation of about 2,800 water meters and 1,800
house connections.
This subproject is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.



- 56 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 8
17. Tumaco
- construction of three sewerage pumping stations; and
- construction of about 25 km of sewers and interceptors and
5,000 domiciliary connections.
This subproject is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
18. Magangue
- construction of a raw water pumping station of 100 1/sec and a
3 km raw water transmission line;
- expansion of the water treatment plant from a capacity of
81 1/sec to about 161 1/sec;
- improvement and extension of about 18 km to the water distribution
network;
- purchase and installation of about 1,600 water meters; and
- construction of about 25 km of sewers and 2,000 house connections.
This subproject is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.
19. Codazzi
- expansion of the water treatment plant from a capacity of
60 1/sec to about 140 1/sec;
- construction of a water storage tank with a capacity of about
2,000 m3;
- improvement and extension of about 11 km to the water distribution
network; and
- purchase and installation of about 3,500 water meters and 1,500
house connections.
This subproject is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
20. Pamplona
- expansion of the water treatment plant from a capacity of
60 1/sec to about 170 1/sec;
- improvement and expansion of water intake by 90 1/sec and
installation of about 9 km of raw water transmission;
- construction of three water storage tanks with a combined capacity
of about 2,200 m3;



- 57 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 8
- improvement ancL extension of about 18 km to the water
distribution network; and
- the purchase and installation of about 1,400 water meters
and house connections.
This subproject is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
21. Chiquinquira
- construction oi- the first stage of a water treatment plant
with a capacity of about 1L24 1/sec;
-  construction of a water reservoir with a capacity of about
1,600 m3;
-  improvement and extension of about 15 km to the water dis-
tribution network; and
-  purchase and installation of about 3,200 water meters and
house connections.
This subproject is expected to be ready by December 31, 1983.
22. Sabanalarga
- construction oE sewers andl interceptors with a length of
approximately 31 km and 2,600 domiciliary connections;
- construction of an outfall conduit about 1,400 m in length;
and
- construction of two stabilization ponds.
This subproject is expected to be ready by December 31, 1982.
23. Espinal
-  improvements in the water intake and installation of about
3,600 m of a raw water transmission line;
-  expansion of the water treatment plant from a capacity of
120 1/sec to about 180 1/sec;
-  construction of a 750 m3 capacity water storage tank;
-  construction of 6 km of a treated water transmission line; and
-  construction of about 25 km of sanitary sewers and interceptors
and 650 domiciliary connections.
This subproject is expected to be ready by December 31, 1983.



COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
Years                1979                             1980               |1981,                                          1982                             1983
Duarters  1Q   | 20         3Q   | 40        1Q0    2Q       30Q      4Q   | 1Q        20      30     40        1 Q     20      30      40       1 Q     20      30       4Q
I      W              _L            .    _-
CARTAGENA                                                                            ..... ..................
IBAGUE                                                                          . ._   ! ......................... ...... .... .... ..,==_==__
VAI LEDUPAR                                     ,__  _.JI J  ..................  ..........=..___ 
PASTO                           _S_i ._ ' -r                          ...     .     ....................   .... .... . ......=-......_
NEIVA _  .........'s  .....    .. .. .   ..... =__
MONTERIA ._  g-x.............l... ..... 
I                 SINCEHL EJO
-SOLEDALD_,_ LEW                                                                      ....   ......N  ....              .....                                               . ..... .                 =
_R        .IOHACHA _  .1f ...........  ....                                                                            .         .....    ...._   ...... 
G    IRA R_DOT                                       =                                     _    ~f~  Xll1- ........................................-= ............ =T-s
COPACABANA                                          ___t  w ...........                                       .         ....  stXf  ...... ...._  1
_-R IO NE G RO                                                                           ...   ..... =   i,i -   t::..............        -               4-                   
-DOAQEBARCAS___ ,rT ................ -._-X- ..........  ..... . m,=. 
T U M A C D _  _ jr _ _0, _,. S)iiJJ..............................  ...... ....   ..    
CALARCA ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Ds.r
_MAGANGUE                                                                        ..___t,  ;x;f::::::::: ..... ....._ 
PAMPLONA - --'---''--w -'|'-''-''''''''w _ _ _
CHIQUINQUIRA ,,__--''t--|_ |3.rw  _
SABANALARfiGA                                                               .....=-+  ...........                                                     I       
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                      |        L__ _---------                                            
PROGRAM                                                .............                                      ll                        l_ 
LEGEND~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                      VV~~~~~~orld Bank-19521
- - -Desig,l
......... Bidding
Construction



COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Characteristics of Beneficiaries
Phisical Data                      Cartagena    Ibague          Valledupar      Pasto           Naiya           Monteria         Sincelejo       Soledad
Population - mid-1977              405,000      221,300         118,100         137,500         133,200          115,800         84,500          79,500
Population growth -  %                   4.3           5.2             5.1             3.6             4.3             3.9            5.2             5.3
Department                         Bolivar      Tolima          Cesar           Narino          Huila            Cordoba         Sucre           Atlantico
Responsible empresa                E.P.         Empoibague      Empodupar       Empopasto       E.P.            E.P.             Emposucre       Empotlan
Average elevation
(meters - MSL)                          4        1,200              170          2,500             450               17            210               5
Average temperature (tC)                28            22              28              14              77              28             27              28
Economic Activities               Tourism       Agriculture    Agriculture    Agriculture    Agriculture    Agriculture    Agriculture
Industry     Commerce        Livestock       Commerce        Livestock       Livestock       Livestock        Industry        I
Un
Water Supply
e population served                   62            84              88              85              83              75             60              70
Number of house connections       33,000       26,400           14,000         17,700          18,250           11,700         8,080            7,490
Number of metered connections   32,000         25,100           8,800          17,100          17,260            1,630          3,600           6,460
Persons per dwelling                   7.6           7.0             7.5             6.6             6.1             7.4            6.3             7.4
Net consumption l/c/d                190           142             160             184             200             130            143             166
Average production (m3;s3)             0.83          0.53            0.34            0.47            0.51            0.22           0.13            0.18
Unaccounted for water - %             36            38              43              46              49              41             33              40
Sewerage
Type of system                  Sanitary      Combined        Sanitary        Combined        Combined        Sanitary         Sanitary        Sanitary
% population connected                34            75              34              76              80              24             43              38
Number of house connections       17,800       23,800           5,360          15,950          17,600            3,680          5,700           4,060
Total length of the system
(km)                              165           170               37            180             115              34             74               40
1-.
0
LOh



COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Characteristics of Beneficiaries
Physical Data                      Riohacha      Girardot       Cartago         Copacabana      Rio Negro       Dos Quebradas    Calarca           Aguachica
population - mid-1977              24,700        74,500         80,000          33,000          33,100          64,600              52,000          20,400
population growth - %                   6.5           2.8             3.5             8.2             5.8             7.0                3.7             5.0
Department                         Guajira      Condinamarca   Valle            Antioquia       Antioquia       Risaralda           Quindio         Cesar
Responsible empresa                Empogira     Acuagirardot   E.P.             Acuantioquia   Acuantioquia   Emporisaraldo         E.P.            Empocesar
Average elevation
(meters - MSL)                        2          240             940           1,420           2,120           1,500               1,620             200
Average temperature (0/oc)             27            28              24              21              18              22                 19              26
Economic Activities                             Tourism         Agriculture                     Industry        Industry           Agriculture    Agriculture
Commerce     Livestock       Industry        Industry        Agriculture    Commerce            Livestock        Livestock     0
Water Supply
7. population served                 66            95             87               66              78              33                 71              68
Number of house connections       2,500       10,800          11,200           3,260           4,400           3,030               5,700           2,500
Number of metered connections         -       10,750          10,600           3,170           4,134           3,012               4,275               -
persons per dwelling                  6,5           6.5             6.2             6.6             5.9             7.0                6.5             5.6
Net consumption 1/c/d               175           189            197              151            175             518                 130             141
Average production (m3/s)             0.06          0.25            0.21            0.06           0.07            0.05                0.11            0.06
Unaccounted-for water - %            45            38              25              37             35               30                 50              60
Sewerage
Type of system                  Sanitary      Combined        Combined        Combined        Combined        Sanitary            Combined        Sanitary
7. population connected              45            75             78              65              78               7                  69               5
Number of house connections       1.720        8,630          10,000           3,230           4,350             680               5,500             180
Total length of the system           24            80             37              10              17                -                 31               -
(knO)
0



COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Characteristics of Beneficiaries
Physical Data                     Tumaco        Magangue        Codazzi         Pamplona        Chiquinquira      Sabanalarga      Espinal
Population - mid-1977             45,300        39,000          29,000          37,800          24,800            29,800           38,000
population growth - %                   4.2           3.0             5.0             3.0            4.9                3.0              4.0
Department                        Narino        Bolivar         Cesar           N. Santander   boyaca             ALiLU I.c        To1i_.^
Responsible empresa                             Empobol         Empocesar       Empopamplons   Empoboyaca         Empotlan         Empolima
Average elevation
(meters - MSL)                        5           27             132           2,340           2,550                90              440
Average temperature (OC)               28            28             28              17              17                23                28
Economic Activities               Industry                      Agriculture    Tourism          Agriculture       Agri e'ilture    Agriculture
Commerce     Agriculture    Livestock        Agricultutre    Livestock         Livestock        Livestock
Water Supply
% population served                  30           57              67              71              80                79               85
Number of house connections      2,380         3,250          19,500           3,830           3,350             3,086            4,760
Number of metered connections   1,665          2,125               -           3,760           2,650             1,900            4,668
Persons per dwelling                  5.9          6.7             6.3             7.0             5.9               7.7               6.8
Net consumption l/c/d               207          154             129             165             154               144              169
Average production (m3/s)             0.05         0.06            0.08            0.08            0.05              0,06              0.10
Unaccounted-for water - 7.           35           32              63              37              41                35                30
Sewerage
Type of system                                Salnitary       Sanitary        Combined        Sanitary              -            Sanitary
% population served                  -0-          21              10              57              59               -4-               40
Number of house connections           -        1,200             400           3,170           2,480                -             2,230
Total length of the system (km)       -            8              34             100               -                _               136
0



COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES
(Col3 Million)
METERS                          ASSISTANCE           ENGINEERING
TYPES OF        WATER          PUMPING         STORAGE      DISTRIEUTION          AND OPERATION        SEWERAGE           AND                   AND                   TECHNICAL                 PRICE
CITY                           EXPENSES    PRODUCTION          STElIONS        TANKS           PIPES                EQUIPMENT            WOEt;S        TRAINING           ADMINIST3ATION            CONTINGENCIES           ESCAiATION            TOTAL
CARTAGENA                      Local            61.6              1.3             __           50.5                    3.0               33.0               --                17.9                        25.1                 89.0                281.4
Foreign          11.3              5.7            --            37.7                    2.5               21.7               --                14.4                       20.1                  72.1               225.5
Total           112.9              7.0            --            88.2                    5.5               54.7              _                  32.3                       45.2                 161.1               506.9
IEAGUE                         Local              --               --           12.8              --                    --               36.0               --                  5.9                        8.2                 38.0                100.9
F-reign          _                 _             7.8              --                    _                29.1               _                   4.5                        6.2                  23.0                70.6
Total            _                 _            20.6             _                      _                 65.1              _                  10.4                       14.4                  61.0               171.5
VALLEDIPAR                     Local                                              --                                                     67.6               --                  8.2                       11.4                 40.1                127.3
Foreign          _                 _                                                     --              435                                    5 3.                        7.4                 25.1               281.
Total.1-                                          --              --                     --             11                    -                13.5                       18.8                 6_5.2               208.-6
PASTO                          Local              --               --           4.9            46.6                    6.1                                   _                 6.9                         9.6                 36.5                110.6
Fo-eign            --               --           2.9            17.3                   6.                                     - 2                .7                        7.8                  29.1                89.0
Total            _                 _             7.8            83.9                  12.3                  -                                  12.6                       17.4                  65.6               i99.6
NEIVA                          Local            22.1               --             --           11.4                    0.3               11                  -                  5.4                        7.6                 30.3                 88.8
Foreisn          16.0               __            __             8.2                   2.1                 6.2-                                 4.1                        5.7                  21.3                64.4
Total            38.9              _              _             19.6                   2.4                17.9                                  9.5                       13.3                  51.6               153.2
MONMTERiA                      Local            14.6               3.1           4.1            26.4                   6.1              123.6                                  21.3                       29.9                 112.0               341.1
Fo-eign          13.1             5.7            2.5            21.7                    9.4               76.                                  15.6                       21.7                  77.0               243.4
Total            27.7              8.8           6.6            48.1                  15.5              200.3                                  36.9                       51.6                 189.0               584.5
SINCELEJO                      Local              --             38.9             --           17.1                    2.8               191                                    9.4                       13.2                 42.5                143.0
PoFaign            --            36.5             --            13.9                  15.2                 94-                                  9.0                       12.7                  42.5               139.2
Total             _               75.4            _             31.0                   18.0               28.5                                 18.4                        25.9                 05.0                282-2
SOLEDAD                        Local              __              1.4           11.5           21.5                    1.5               313                                    8.3                       11.6                 39.5                128.6
Foreign            --              1.6           8.2            17.2                    3.3               15.2               --                 5.7                        7.8                  24.2                 83.2
Total              --              3.0          21.7            3.7                    4.8                46.5              _                  14.0                       19.4                  63.7                211.8
RT03AC8A                       Local             2.2              1.5             --            2.2                    3.5                 __                                   1.0                        1.6                   6.7                18.7
Foragn            1.2              2.5           _               1.6                    1.6                _-                                   0.8                        1.2                   5.6                 14.5
Total             3.4              4.0            _              3.8                    5.1                _                _                   1.8                        2.8                  12.3                 55.2
GIRARDOT                       Local             6.5               --            4.4             7.4                   1.7                 __                                   2.4                        3.4                  12.8                38.6
Focaig.           5.3               --           2.5             6.2                    1,2                _                _                   1.6                        2.5                   9.26                28.9
Total            11.       5         -           6.9            13.6                    2.9                 --                                  4.0                        5.9                  22.4                 67.5
CARTAGO                        Local              __                                                                                     26.7               __                  3.2                        4.4                  14.5                48.8
Fo-eigs          _                 _              _              _                      _                 16.4              _                   2.1                        2.9                   8.9                 30.3
Total                             _              _              _                      _                 43.1              _                   5.3                        7.3                  23.4                 79.1
COPACABANA                     Local             5.9                             2.7            6.0                    1.9                3.0                                   2.4                        3.3                  14.8                40.0
Foreign           5.3               --           1.6             4.9                    1.2                2.5              _                   1.6                         2.5                 12.3                 31.9
Total            11.2              _             4.3            10.9                   3.1                53.               _                   4.0                        5.8                  27.1                 31 9
R8O NEGRC                      Local            17.3               __            2.0             8.2                    --                 --                                   3.3                        4.7                  20.1                55.6
Foreign          20.9              _             1.2             6.6                    _                  _                 -                  3.3                        4.9                  21.4                 18.3
Total            38.2              _             3.2            14.8                    _                 _                 _                   6.6                        9.6                  41.5                113.9
DOS QUEBRAUAS                  Local              ---               -            3.7             7.3                   4.5               24.1               --                  4.8                        6.7                  27.8                78.9
Fo-eign            --                            2.1             5.3                   4.5                11.9              _                   2.5                        4.1                  15.3                45.7
Total                              --           5.8            12.6                    9.0               36.0              _                   7.3                       10!8                  43.1                124.6 a/
a?  Dea not ic-lude intereat du-ing ccnatrntion.



COLOMBIA
THIRO MEDIlE  AND SMALL SIZE CITIES WATEE SUPPLY AND SEWER EGE PEOJECT
COST ESTIMATES
(lolS Million)
METERS                        ASSISTANCE            ENGINEERINC
TYPES OF        WATER            PUMPING      STORAGE           DISTRIBUTION          AND OPERATION       SEWERAGE          AND                    AND               TECHNICAL               PRECE
CITY                          EXPENSES       PRODICYION         STATIONS      TANKS                PIPES               EQUIPMENT           WORKS        TRAINING           ADMINISTRATION         CONTINiENCIES         ESCALATION            TOTAL
CALARCA                       Local              3.6                --           --               3.9                      3.2               --              __                  1.2                    1.8                 7.9               21.6
Foreign           2.1                _           _                  2.9                     2,1              _                _                   0.8                    1.2                 6.9               16.4
T1tal             6.1                _           _                  6.8                     5.3              _                _                   2.0                    3.0                14.8               38.0
AGUACHICA                     Local             16.1                 --         3.1                3.2                     1.4               __               __                 2.8                    4.0                16.6               47.2
Foreign          12.7                 --         1.6                4. 5                    2,1               --              --                  2.5                    3.3                15.3               42.0
Tocal            28.8                            4.7                7.7                     3.5              _                _                   5.3                    7.3                31.9                89.2
TliMACO                       Local--                                                               --                      --             27.8               --                 3.4                    4.7                23.1                59.0
Foreign           _                  _           _                  _                                       11.5              _                   1.2                    1.6                 9.8                24.1
Total                                                   _ _ _ _ _                                           39.3                _                 4.6                    6.3                32.9                81.1
MAGANGUE                      Local             10.3                 --          --                3.0                     1,5             11.5                _                 3.2                    4.4                17.6                51.5
Foreign           8.6                _                              2.1                     1.2              7.8              _                   2.5                    3.3                13.2                38.7
Toc-l            18.9                _           _                  5.1                     2.7             19.13             _                   57                     7.7                30.8                90.2
CODAZZI                       Local              2,8                 --         3.5                3.5                     1.2               --               .-                 1.4                    1.8                 7.9               22.1
Foreign           2.9                _           2.1                2.9                     2.5              _                 --                 1.2                    1.6                 7.4                20.6
Total             5.7                            5 5.6              6.4                     3.7               --                                  2.6                    3.4                15.3                42.7
PAMPLONA                      Local             11.8               0.6          3.1                5.9                     1.1               --               _-                 2.7                    3.7                15.0               43.9
Foreign           9.0                1.2         1.6                4.5                     0.8              _                _                   2.1                    2.9                12.5                34.6
Total            20.8                1.8         4.7               10.4                     1.9              _                _                   4.8                    6.6                 27.1               78.5
CHIQUINQUIRA                  Local            11.0                 --         2.3                3.2                      3.1              --                                  2.4                     3.3                14.4               39.7
Foreign          11.1               0.6          1.2                2.5                     2.1              _                _                   2.1                    2.8                11.9                34.4
Total            22.1                0.6         3.5                1.7                     5.2              _                _                   4.5                    6.2                26,3                74.1
SABANALARGA                   Loca                --                 --          --                 --                      --             24.6               --                 3.0                    4.2                13.5               45.3
Foreign            _                                                                                        12.7                                  1 1.2                  2.1                 7.5                23.5
Total             _                  _            --                _                                       37.3              _                   4.2                    6.3                21.0                68.8
ESPINAL                       Local              6.2                 -          6.4                9.3                     1,7             11.0               __                 4.2                    5.8                 25.5               70.1
Foreign           1.7                 --         4.1                7.8                     0.4              6.2               __                 2.5                    4.1                 15.3               46.1
Toctl            11.9                _          10.5               17.1                     2.1             17.2               --                 6.7                    9.9                40.8               116.2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE          Local                                                                                                                         16.8                  --                     2.5                 6.5               25.8
Fo-eign                                                                                                                      26.7                  __                    4.1                 10.1               40.9
TotAl                                                                                                                       43.5                   --                    6.6                 16.6               66.7
TOTAL                                          351.4              100.6       105.9             424,4                    103.0            721.8            43.5                217.0                  111.5             1,169.9            3,/556.0
!/ lees net include interest dnring oonscccictioo.



COLOMBIA
TRISD MED10M AN) SMALL SIZE CITIES WATER SIPPLY ANl SEWERAGE PROIJECT
COST ESTIMATES
(US$ Million)
METERS                       ASSISTANCE          ENCINEERING
TYPE OF          WATER          PUMPING      STOCIAGE         DISTRIBUTION          AND OPERATION       SEWERAGE        AND                    AND               TECHNICAL             PRICE
CTiY                          EXPENSES      PRODIICTION       STATIONS      TANKS               PIPES                EQUIPMENT         WORKS         TRAINING          ADMINISIRATION        CONTINCENCIES         ESCALATION           TITAL
CARTAGENA                     Local            1.50              0.03          --               1.23                    0,07           0.50              --                 0.43                   0.61                1.06             5.73
Foreign          1.25              0.14         --                0.92                   0.06            0.53              --                 0.35                  01.49               0.86              4,60
Total            2.75              0.17         _                 2.15                    0.13           1.23 3                               0.78                   1.10               1.92             10.33
IBAGUE                        Local              --                --       0.31                  --                      --           0.88              --                 0.14                  0.20                0.44              1.97
Foreign            --                --       0.19                  --                      --           0.71              --                 0.11                  0.15                0.21              1.37
Total             _                  --       0.50                  --                     _             1.59             _                   0.25                  0.35                0.65              3.34
VALLEDllPAR                   Local               --               --          --                 --                      --           1.65               --                0.20                   0.28                0.47             2.60
Foreign           _                 _           _                   --                     _             1.06             _                   0.13                  0.18                0.29              1.66
Total _                                               _                                                  2.71                                 0 O 1.33              0.46                0.76              4.26
PASTO                         Local                                         0.12                1.14                    0.15             --              --                 0.17                   0.23               0.42              2.23
Foreign            --                --       0.07                0.91                   0.15                              --                0.14                   0.19                0.35              1.81
Total            _                   --       0.19                2.05                   0.30              --             _                   0.31                  0.42                0.77              4.04
NEIVA                         Local            0.54                --          --               0.28                    0.01           0.29              --                 2.13                   0.19               0.34              1.78
Foreign          0.41               _           _                 0.20                   0.05            0.15             _                   0.10                  0.14                0.25              1.30
Total            0.95               _            -                0.48                   0.06            0.44             _                   0.23                  0.33                0.59              3.08
MONTERIA                      Local            0.36              0.08        0.10               0.64                    0.15           3.01               --                0.52                   0.73                1.29             6.88
Foreign          0.32             0.14        0.06                0.53                   0.23            1.87              --                0.38                   0.53                0.91              4.97
Total            0.68             0.22        0.16                1.17                    0.38           4.88             _                   0.90                   1.26               2.20             11.85
SINCELEJO                     Local              --              0.95          --               0.42                    0.07           0.47                                 0.23                   0.32               0.51              2.97
Foreign           _               0.89          _                 0.34                   0.37            0.23             _                  0.22                   0.31                0,50              2.86
Total             _                1.84         --                0.76                   0.44            0.70             _                  0.45                   0.63                1.01              5.83
SOLEDAD                       Local              --              0.03       0.33                0.52                    0.04           0.76              __                 0.20                   0.28               0.48              2.64
Foreign           _               0.04        0.20                0.42                   0.00            0.37             _                  0.14                   0.19                0.29              1.73
Total              --             0.07        0.53                0.94                   0.12            1.13             __                  0.34                  0.47                0.77              4.37
RIOACRA                       Local            0.03              0.04          --               0.05                     .09             --                                 0.02                  0.04                0.08              0.37
Forign           0.03             0.00          --                0.04                   0.04              -                                 0.02                   0.03                0.11             _1.33
Total            0.08             0.10          --                0.09                   0.13             _               _                   0.04                  0.07                0.19              0.70
CISRARDOT                     local            0.16                --       0.11                0,18                    0.04             --              --                 0.06                   0.08               0.14              0.77
Fore.ign         0.13                --       0.06                0.15                   0.03              0--                                 .04                  0.06                0.12              0.59
Totl1            0.29                --       0.17                0.33                   0.07            -_                                   0.10                   0.14               0.26              1.36
CARTAGO                       Local              --                            --                 --                      --           0,65              __                 0.08                  0.11                0.17              1.01
ForeIgn                                                                                                  0.40 --                             0.05                   0.07                0.11              0.63
Total                                       -                                               -            1.05                                0.13                   0.18                0.28              1.64
COPACABANA                    Local            0.14                --       0.07                0.15                    0.05           0.07              --                 0.06                   0.08               0.10              0.80
Foreign          0.13               _         0.04               0.12                    0.03            0.06             _                  0.04                   0.06                0.13              0.61
1'otal           0.27                --       0.11               0.27                    0.05            0.13             _                  0.10                   0.14                0.31              1.41
ITO NEGRO                     Local            0.42                --       0.05                0.20                      --             --                                0.08                   0.11                0.23              1.09
Foreign          0.51               _         0.03                0.16                      --            _                --                0.08                   0.12                0.25              1.15
Total            0.93                --       0.08                0.36                      -_                                               0.16                   0.23                0.48              2.24
DOS QUEBRADAS                 Local              --                         0.09                0.18                    0.11           0.59                                 0.12                  0.16                0.32              1.57
Foreign                              --       0.05               0.13                    0.11           0.29              _                  06                     1.100.17                              0.91
Tlotal            _                  --       0.14               0.31                    0.22           0.88                                 0.18                   0.26                0.49              2.48



COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES
(US$ Million)
METERS                             ASSISTANCE           ENGINEERING
TYPE OF            WATER           MEMPING      STORATE         DISTRIBUTION         AND OPERATION          SEWERAGE            AND                   AND                TECHNICAL             PRICE
EXPENSES       PRODUCTION         STATIONS       TASiES             S'1PES             EQUIPMENT              WORES          TRAINING          ADMTNISTRATION         CONTINGENCIES        ESCALATION         TOTAL
CALARCA                       Local              0.09                                              0.10                  0.00                   --              --                 0.03                   0.04                0.09           0.43
Fo-eigg            0,06                --           --              0.07                  0.05                   --              --                 0.02                   0.03                0.08            0.31
Total              0.15               _            _                0.17                  0.13                   --              _                    .0                   0.0^ '.17                            .74
ACUACHICA                     Local              0.39                -     ~    0.05               0.05                  0.03                   --              --                 0.07                   0.10                0.18            0.93
Foca-go            0.31                --        0.04               0.11                  0.05                   __              __                 0.06                   0.05                0.18            0.83
Total              0.70               --         0.12               0.19                  0.08 O                                 --                 0.13                   0.18                0,36            1.76
TESACO                        Local                 -- -- -1                                         --                     --               0.68               --                 0.08                   0.11                0.27            1.14
Foreig            _--                  --           --                 --                    --               0.28               --                 0.03                   0.04                0.11            0.46
Total                                 --          _                  _                     _                 0.96               _                  0.11                   0.15                0.38            1.60
MAGANOUE                       Local              0.25                --           --              0.07                  0.04                 0.20                                 0.08                   0.11                0.19            1.02
Foreign            0.21                --           --              0.05                  0.03                 O.l9              --                    06                  0.                  0.17 .o7,
E-al             u.4b                _             --              0. 12                 0.07                0.47              _                   0.14                   0.19                0.36            1.81
CODAZZI                       Local              0.07                --         0.09               0.09                  0.03                   --              --                 0.03                   0.04                0.08            0.43
Fo-eogo            0.07               --         0.05               0.07                  0.06                   --              --                 0.03                   0.04                0.10            0.42
Total              0.14               _          0.14               0.16                  0.09                  _                _                  0.06                   0.08                0.18            0.85
PAMPLONA                      Local              0.29              0.01         0.08               0.14                  0.03                   --              --                 0.07                   0.09                0,25            0.96
Pocelgo           0.22              0.03         0.04               0.11                  0.02                   --             _                   0.05                   0.07                0.15            0.69
Total              0.51             0.04         0.12               0.25                  0.05                                                      0 _  0.12              0.16                0.40            1.65
CHIQUINQUIRA                  Local              0.27                -          0.06               0.08                  0.08                   --              --                 0.06                   0.08                0.14            0.77
Foreigo            0.27             0,01         0.03               0.06                  0.05                   --              --                 O.05                   0.07                0.14            0.68
Total              0.54              0.01         0.09              0.14                   0.13                 _                 --                0.11                   0.15                0.28            1.45
SARANALARGA                    Local                --                --           --                --                     --               0.60               --                 0.07                   0.10                0.17            0.94
Foreign                                                                                                       0.31                  _               0.03                   0.05                0.09            0.48
Total               _-                _-           _-                  --                   _-                0.91              _-                  0.10                   0.15                0.26            1.42
ESPINAI.                      Local               0.15               --         0.16               0.23                  0.04                0.27               __                 0.10                   0.14                0.28            1.37
F ireigc          0,14                __         0.10               9.19                  0.01                0.15               __                 0.06                   0.10                0.17            0.92
Total              0.29                --        0.26               0.42                  0.05                0.42              _                   0.16                   0.24                0.45            2.29
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE          l.ocal                -- --                          --                --                    --                                 0.41                    --                  0.06                0.07            0.54
Foreign              --                --          --                 --                    --                   --            0.65                                        0.10                0.11            0.86
Total               _-                _-           _-                 _-                    _-                  _o 1.06                                                    0 6                 0.18            1.40
TOTAL                                            8.74              2.45         2.61              10.36                  2.53               S7.6E             1.06                 5.28                   7.57               13.70           71.90_a!
a;  Doet aob  ncolodtsottertst during cooatcetooo.                                                                                                                                                                                                       a



COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ANNUAL INVESTMENTS
(S mi.] lions)
1979                1980                 1981                 1982               1983              Total
CITY                       Col$    US$          Col$     US$         Col$     US$         Col$    US$        Col$     US$       Col$    US$
Cartagena                   --       --         21.8     0.35        154.3    2.71        82.8    1.19       22.5     0.35      281.4   4.60
Ibague                      --       --                               14.8    0.25        53.5    0.79      32.6      0.33      100.9   1.37
Valledupar                  --       --         14.4     0.21         65.3    0.88        34.2    0.42       13.4     0.15      127.3   1.66
Pasto                       --       --        11.0      0.23         44.0    0.71        39.5    0.63       16.1     0.24      110.6   1.81
Neiva                       --       --          4.6     0.12         34.2    0.58        33.6    0.47       16.4     0.15       88.8   1.32
Monteria                    --       --         22.1     0.83        156.7    2.17       116.8    1.49       45.4     0.48      341.0   4.97
Sincelejo                   --       --         32.7     0.70         66.8    1.30        33.0    0.63       10.5     0.23      143.0   2.86
Soledad                     --       --        28.8      0.54         49.5    0.69        32.8    0.36       17.5     0.14      128.6   1.73
Riohacha                    --       --         --        --           2.9    0.06        13.9    0.20        1.9     0.07       18.7   0.33
Girardot                                        --        --          17.4    0.27        20.2    0.30        1.0     0.02       38.6   0.59
Cartago                     --       --         10.2     0.15         21.1    0.29        17.5    0.20        --       --        48.8   0.64
Copacabana                  --       --                                5.8    0.10        25.8    0.40        8.4     0.11       40.0   0.61   o
Rio Negro                   --       --          --       --          11.5    0.29        33.4    0.68       10.7     0.18       55.6   1.15
Dos Quebradas               --       --         10.6     0.17         16.4    0.26        23.3    0.23       28.6     0.25       78.9   0.91
Calarca                     --       --                                6.4    0.09         8.7    0.13        6.5     0.09       21.6   0.31
Aguachica                                        --       --          13.2    0.24        28.4    0.50        5.6     0.09       47.2   0.83
Tumaco                                          --        --           4.0    0.06        27.8    0.22       27.2     0.18       59.0   0.46
Magangue                    --       --         18.5     0.43         28.7    0.28         4.3    0.08        --       --        51.5   0.79
Codazzi                                         --        --           6.7    0.13        12.8    0.25        2.6     0.04       22.1   0.42
Pamplona                    --       -           4.8     0.06         16.0    0.28        10.3    0.17       12.8     0.18       43.9   0.69
Chiquniquira                --       --                                9.1    0.16        20.8    0.37       9.8      0.16       39.7   0.69
Sabanala-;ga                --       --          8.2     0.08         21.7    0.24        15.4    0.16        --       --        45.3   0.48
Espinal'                    --       --         --        --          15.5    0.24        40.3    0.54       14.3     0.14       70.1   0.92
Technical Assistance        6.0    0.15          8.2     0.12         11.7    0.59         --       --        --       --        25.9   0.86
Total Investments        6.0    0.15       195.9      3.99        793.7   12.87       729.1    10.41   303.8       3.58    2028.5  31.00
Note: The first column under each year represents local expenditures and the second represents IBRD financing of foreign
expenditures which, for appraisal purposes, are expressed in US dollars.
x



COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMAIL SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND) SEWERAGE PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OP CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENS
(US$ thousands)
BANK FISCAL YEAR AN]) QUAR~TER           CARTAGENA    IBAGUE    VALLEDUPAR    PASTO    NEIVA    MONTERTA    SINCELEJO    SOLEDAD    RIOMACHA    GIRARDOT    CARTAGO                     COPACAARAN
1979/1980
lst Quarter                                   -            --                        -         -           --                          --                         --
2nd quarter---                                                          -----                                                                       --                        -
3rd Quarter                                   85          --50                      60        30        210           120            140           -                          40
4th Quarter                                  170           --         100          120         60        420          340            280           --                         80             -
1980/1981
1st Quarter                                  255          -          150           .1 0       90        630           510            420           -             -           120             -
2nd Quarter                                  355          --          210          230       120         830          700            540           --             --150                      --
3rd Quarter                                1005           60         430           400       260       1370          1020            710           15            60          220             20
4th Quarter                                 1655         120          650          570       400        1910         1340            880           30           120          290             40
1981/1982
1st Quarter                                 2305         180         870           740       540       2450          1660           1050           45           180          360             60
2nd Quarter                                 3065         250        1090           940       700       3000          2000           1230           60           270          440            100
3rd Quarter                                 3365         450        1190          1090       820       3370          2160           1320          110           345          490            200
4th Quarter                                 3665         650        1290          1240       940       3740          2320           1410          160           420          540            300
1982/ 1983
1st Quarter                                 3965         850        1390          1390      1060       4110          2480           1500          210           495          590            400
2nd Quarter                                4250         1040        1510          1570      1170       4490          2630           1590          260           570          640            500
3rd Quarter                                4350         1120        1550          1630      1210       4610          2690           1625          280           575           --            520
4th Quarter                                 4450        1200        1590          1690      1250       4730          2750           1660          300           580           --560
1983/1984
1st Quarter                              4550           1280        1630          1750      1290       4850          2810           1695          320           585           --590
2nd Quarter                              4600           1370        1660          1810      1320       4970          2860           1730          330           590           --610



COLCMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF CUIWJIATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
(UiS$ thousands)
BANK FISCAL YEAR AND QUARTER
BANK FISCAL YEAR AND QUARTER           RIO NEGRO   DOS QUEBRADAS  CALARCA   AGUACHICA   TUMACO   MAGANGUE   CODAZZI  PAMPLONA  CHIQUINQUIRA  SANANARABGA  ESPINAL  TECH. ASSISTANCE                     TOTAL
1979/1980
1st Quarter                                              7-- -_         __         __           __        __          __         _            _                                        700
2nd Quarter                                        --            --           --                --        --          --        --                          --           --           150                 150
3rd Quarter                                 --            40            __100 __                                               10            __             20          --            180                1085
4th Quarter                                 --            80            --         --           --      200           --        20           --             40           --           210                2120
1980/1981
lat Quarter                                 --           120            --         --           --      300           --       30            --             60           --           240                3105
2nd Quarter                                 --           170            --         --           --      430           --       60            --             80           --           270                4145
3rd Quarter                                 60           230            20         60          15       500           30      130            40            140          60            420                7275
4th Quarter                                120           290            40        120           30      570           60      200            80            200         120            570               10405
1981/1982
Ist Quarter                               180            350            60        180          45       640          90       270           120            260         180           720                13535
2nd Quarter                                290           430            90        240          60       710         130       340          160             320         240           860                17015
3rd Quarter                               460            490           120        360         115       730         190       380          250             360         370            --                19595
4th Quarter                               630            550           150        480         170       750         250       420           340            400         500            --                22175
1982/1983
Ist Quarter                               800            610           180        600         225       770         310       460          430             440         630            --               24755
2nd Quarter                               970            660           220        740         280       790         380       510          530             480         780            --                27420
3rd Quarter                              1020            730           245        770         330        --         390       560          570              --         820            --                28375
4th Quarter                              1070            800           270        790         360        --         400       610          610              __         860            --                29300
1983/1984
lst Quarter                              1120            870           295        81D         410        --         410       660          650              --         900            --                30245
2nd Quarter                              1150            910           310        830         460        --         420       690          690              __         920            --               31000
0



ANNEX 7
- 69 ---
COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL.-SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Government Funds - Quarterly Estimates
Fiscal Year                                          Col$
and Quarter                                        Millions
1979/1980
1st. quarter                                          2.7
2nd. quarter                                          3.3
3rd. quarter                                         35.5
4th. quarter                                         39.3
1980/1981
1st. quarter                                         37.5
2nd. quarter                                         39.4
3rd. quarter                                        143.0
4th. quarter                                        155.5
1981/1982
1st. quarter                                        155.5
2nd. quarter                                        168.0
3rd. quarter                                        137.0
4th. quarter                                        140.0
1982/1983
1st. quarter                                        140.0
2nd. quarter                                        153.0
3rd. quarter                                         64.0
4th. quarter                                         82.0
1983/1984
1st. quarter                                         61.0
2nd. quarter                                         50.3
TOTAL                                             1,607.0



COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INSFOPAL - ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Ministry of H-alih           l               -|              Pleorirmg|                               Works ard Bdyget
Board tf Directors                                            Legal                             Waren Suply ond Sevcseo     |
Na-mnl Offut                                     IAui
General Directorj-                                    D rector's Assisranco                     Hooses and Market Places 
-|    Zone's Supenraision      l        |       Sosrees and Analysis      |
Adminisratire                                     Finences                                      Technical                                  External Credit Office                          Assistance to Exkcuting
Sub-Di-rti-n                                   Sub-Dine.sn                                    Sub-Dit                                         S-Directio                                   Agencies-Sub-Diection
led-usrnal Relations                                Tneasu'y                                    Special Pregrant                                    Control                                  Institution D-eelop-ert
~4   Pnnsonnel       l              L          Treasur y                                  Water Quality Centra      lCeitrel Ne S                                                           Diagnosis No. 1
i   Well Being atd Housing  ;           q             Budget "Mairtenance                                                                         Control No 2                                    Diagnosis N. 2
E-uryig Anctes                                    Loan Portfolio                                    Research                                     Control No 3                                     Diagnosis 3            | 3
C~~~~~~~~~~~~
-Administratio  Services                              Accounting                      -|           Hydro-Geology                                        Finances                                 Technical Assistance
OnGneral Saroints             l                    General Antroantino                               Programming                                                                                       Operations          _
Procurement                               L        Exterolal Contracts                            Technical Dperation                                                                   4Finance                     
l~ ~~--                                           13-                                                p'9,m
Cormunicarions                               Financial Resources                     4         Internal Services                                                                           Planning and Management
External Credits       l       qDesign                                l                                                       -|               Treining
L    Internal Credits         |           -|           Standards             |_|                                                                   Training Courwses
4    Work's Supervsioln       |                                                              |           Licrern              l
World Bank -1 it9B



- 71 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT UNIT
Draft Terms of Reference
1.        In order for INSFOPAL to fulfill its role in the sector as a
coordinator, financial intermediary, and supervisor of sector activities,
it is essential to speed up implementation of Decree no. 2804 which will
provide INSFOPAL with adequate technical, financial, and management capa-
bilities.
2.        For this purpose, the Institutional Development Unit (Unidad de
Desarrollo Institucional--UDI) created within INSFOPAL will be res-
ponsible for proposing appropriate measures to the Board of Directors
through the Director General.
3.        The UDI will review INSFOPAL's institutional performance and
recommend measures to improve its efficiency. It will hire specialized
consultants with terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to the
Bank, and coordinate and control their tasks in two major areas:
(a) Administration and organization, including the adequacy of
INSFOPAL's structure for its present role, completion of its
code of functions, studies of personnel requirements and the
feasibility of personnel reallocation, staff training, and the
remuneration system. In particular, the UDI will look at
INSFOPAL's new activities in the areas of solid wastes, market
places, and slaughterhouses; and
(b) Financing and planning, including the establishment of an
accrual based accounting system and a management information
system, the definition of INSFOPAL's financial and revenue
policies, and the development, by the appropriate section
of INSFOPAL in conjunction with DNP, of a general investment
program for the next five years.
4.        The UDI will consist of an engineer, who will be the unit head,
an economist, and a financial analyst or business administrator. The
members of the Unit will be professionals with a sound knowledge of their
respective areas and a minimum of three years' working experience in the
sector for the financial analyst and the economist, and five years for the
head of the Unit.



- 72 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
5.        The UDI will continue to function until the Board of Directors,
in consultation with the Bank, decides that the Unit's objectives have
been accomplished. This period, however, will not be less than two years.
The Unit will present quarterly reports to the Board of Directors through
the Director General on its findings and recommendations.
6.        The UDI's immediate tasks will be:
(a)  to review INSFOPAL's new code of functions and recommend
measures for its implementation not later than December 31,
1979;
(b) to prepare, not later than December 31, 1979, a study of the
INSFOPAL manpower required to carry out the tasks listed in
the above-mentioned code of functions, and recommendations on
the reallocation of personnel and the establishment of a perma-
nent training program;
(c) to prepare guidelines for budget preparation and control in
accordance with existing legislation to be implemented by
December 31, 1979;
(d)  to create, orintroduce appropriate improvements to the existing
accrual based accounting system for INSFOPAL and its borrowers,
and an information system on the services and performance of the
EPMs and EMPOS, to be implemented by June 30, 1980;
(e) to prepare, in coordination with INSFOPAL's planning unit, an
investment plan for the next five years to be presented to DNP
for its approval before June 30, 1980; and
(f) to establish the solid wastes unit no later than December 31,
1979.



- 73 -
ANNEX 10
COLOMBIA                                           Page 1 of 2
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL .SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
MONITORING  INDICATORS
Popu-      Ppu-  Popu- Vh,er    Net    Unac-  No. of   Cost  Average  Rateof   Revenue   Operating
lation   lation lation  Conn  Coa°p. couated- RPloy- VS3   Tari/ff3                    Effect.      Ratio
City                 Year      Thou -   Served Served  Thou- 106 3/    for   ees per   m              lIn Ruexrn
sands      %   Sewer. sands  Year   water %   1000   Sold    Sold                        ndex          %
%                               ODnn.
Cartagena . . . .    1977           405       61      34      33     17.8      36      7.5      0.17      4.32      3.5      44.8       79.0
1980       462       80      51       52     31.8     30      4.8      0.19      9.40      5.1      67.4       72.8
1982        502      90      62       64     40.1     28       3.9     0.20     12.10      5.4      69.3       70.1
1984       547       90   10          70     44.8     26      3.6      0.20     15.70      9.0      71.4       64.3
1986       592       90      70       76    49.7      25       3.3    0.23      19.90      8.4      73.2       66.7
Ibaque ..... .    1977              221       84      75      26       8.8     38      4.4     0.06       2.60      9.2      79.0       58.0
1980       258       90      83       33     12.5    27       4.2      0.06      4.50      6.4      70.6       51.0
1982       285       94      87       38     14.7    25       3.8      0.06      6.60      9.4      72.9       43.6
1984       318       94      87      43      16.4    24       3.5      0.06      9.20    12.3       73.5       37.2
1986       357       94      87      48      18.4    22       3.1      0.06     11.30    15.9       76.0       34.9
Valledupar. . . .    1977           118       89      34      14       6.3     41      4.0  0:04          1.62        0      47.0       71.9
1980       139       92      34      17       7.7     34      2.0      0.05      4.60    11.1       59.5       46.6
1982       153       94      52      19       8.7     28      1.8      0.06      7.70    15.4       70.6       35.8
1984       168       95      70      21       9.7     26      1.7      0.07     10.10    11.8       73.8       35.2
1986       185       95      80      23      10.6    25       1.7      0.08     13.10   13.8        73.3       34.4
Pasto  ......  1977                 137       85      77      18       7.6     47      4.7      0.04      1.8       1.0      68.0       79.0
1980       152       90      83       21      8.9     36      4.0      0.05      4.030     7.8      61.4       47.9
1982       163       93      85       23      9.9     26      3.7      0.06      6.60   11.7        71.8       38.1
1984       174       95      85       25     10.7    25       3.5      0.06      9.20      9.5      77.2       35.1
1986       185       95      85       27    11.4      25      3.5      0.07     11.i50     9.8      77.9       35.3
Neiva  ......  1977                 133       84      80      18       8.6     49      6.8     0.03       2.48        0      55.0       73.0
1980       151       83      80       21      9.6     43      6.1      0.07      4.50      3.6      54.2       65.9
1982       165       90      83      25      11.3     35      5.1      0.07      6.60      5.7      63.0       53.7
1984       179       95      90      28      12.8     29      4.6      0.08      8.60      6.9      68.8       50.3
1986       195       95      90      31      13.9     25      4.2      0.09     11.(0      8.6      73.1       48.5
Monteria ... .. .    1977           116       76      24      12       4.1     41      6.7     0.10       2.40   -5.9        47.2     110.2
1980       130       77      24      14       4.9     38      5.8      0.13      6.20      7.1      59.3       64.5
1982       140       83      44      16       6.0    30       5.1      0.14     12.00      4.3      67.5       48.2
1984       151       90      80      20       7.6    25       4.3      0.15     18.40    5.8        71.7       41.8
1986       163       90      80      21       8.2     25      4.0      0.17     23.00      5.9      73.4       42.6
Sincelejo . . . .    1977            85       60      43       8       2.7     33      6.2     0.11       2.64   -6.6        52.3     123.8
1980         98      75      52      12       4.1     28      4.3     0.13       7.00      1.3      67.1       71.9
1982       108       83      60      14       5.0     26      3.6      0.13     11.60      2.9      71.2       54.5
1984       119       90      76       17      6.2     25      3.2      0.14     16.60      5.8      72.1       46.0
1986       132       90      80      19       6.8     25      2.9      0.16     19.90      6.1      73.4       47.4
Soledad .....   1977                 79       70      30       7       3.4    40       6.1     0.07       2.74     -1.6      33.1      86.3
1980         92      72      34        9      4.0     38      4.8    0.09        6.50      10.0     58.3       59.1
1982       102       85      42      12       5.3     30      3.8     0.09      10.60      16.6     67.8       41.6
1984       113       90      60      14       6.2     25      3.2      0.10     14.70      12.2     73.0       37.1
1986       124       90      70      15       6.8     25      3.0      0.11     18.30      12.9     73.2       37.0
Riohacha .... .   1977               25       66      45        2      1.1     45     11.0     0.07       1.50     -3.8      46.9     104.2
1980         30      66      48        3      1.3     42      7.3      0.09      4.50      -3.0     55.4       69.4
1982         34      78      66        4      1.7     30      5.5      0.09      8.00      -1.5     66.7       48.4
1984         38      89      68        5      2.2     25      4.4      0.09     11.70      -0.1     72.7       39.8
1986         43      43      70        6      2.5     25      3.7      0.10     14.70       0.5     73.5       38.9
Girardot ....  .   1977               74  9 4         75      11      4.9      38      7.6     0.07       2.07      -4.9     46.3       98.9
1980         80      35      78       12      5.3    34       7.0      0.10      4.610      0,6    63.7        81,4
1982         83      ?6      82      12       5.5     30      7.0      0.11      6,81)      3.6     67,8       71,1
1984         87      36      83      12       5.8     26      7.0      0.12      9.31)      3.8    72,4        66,8
1986         90     '36      83       13      6.0     25      6.5      0.13     11.90       4,6    74.4        65.5
Cartago .....   1977                 80       87      78      11      5.0      25      4.3     0.07       2.7(0      7.2     55.9       70.6
1980         88      99      80       13      5.9     25      3.7      0.13      6.10       4.8     71.1       81.4
1982         95      95      87      14       6.3     25      3.5      0.17      9.7(0      4.2     72.8       79.7
1984       102       ('0     87      15       6.6     25      3.4      0.18     12.601      4.9     74.2       76.7
1986       109       s0      87      16       7.1    25       3.2      0.19     15.60       6.8     73.5       73.1
Copacabana. . . .    1977            33       65      65        3      1.2     37      6.1      0.03      1.14   - 1,5       59,8       36.4
1980         41      64      63        4      1.5     37      5.1      0.04      4,00       7,5    60.4        37.3
1982         45      75      72        5      2.0    34       4.9      0.04      5.00       5.6    53.3        34.6
1984         50      90      80        7      2.9     28      3.7      0.03      6.40       6,2    68.9        29.3
1986         55      90      80        8      3.2    25       3.3      0.04      9.10       8.9    73.1        25.8
Rio Negro . . . .    1977             33      7B      78        4      1.7     35      N.A.   0.02        1.42       2.0     45.7       50.1
1980         39      7B      78        5      2.0     35               0.03      3.30       8.0     59.5       36.8
1982         44      83      83        6      2.4     33               0.03      6.90      18.0    63.5        21.1
1984         48      9)      90        7      2.8     29               0.03     10.80      12.2     68.3       16.9
1986         53      9')     90        8      3.1     28               0.04     14.10      13.1     70.1       15.9
Dos Quebradas . .    1977             65      33       7        3      1.1     30      4.0      0.05      1.24      -2.8     56.0      ;34.6
1980         92      3:3      7        4      1.2     30      3.3      0.07      3.30       0.6     65.8       51.7
1982       105       40)     15        6      1.7     27       3.3     0.07      6.50       4.1     67.8       39.5
1984       113       5'i     30        9      2.7    25        2.5     0.07      9.70       6.2     72.8       31.9
1986       122       5f,     32       10      2.9     25       2.8     0.08     12.40       6.7     73.1      :32.3



ANNEX 10
- 74                                                      Page 2 of 2
COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL-SIZE CITIES WATER AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS
City            Year       Pop.   Pop.   Pop.   Water   Net.  Un-    No.of   Cost   Ave.  *  Rate of Rev.    Oper.
Thou.  Serv.  Serv.  Conn.  Consum.act'd  Employ  US$/m3 Tariff    Return Effect. Ratio
%     Sew.   Thou.  106m3/ for    ees/1000 Sold   Col$/r3           S    Index      S
I              Year  Water S Conn.              Sold                Z
Calarca . . . . .    1977          52      71      69       6     1.8    50       4.2    0.04       1.80    -0.3    39.5        63.0
1980        58      71     69       6      1.9    50       3.8    0.06      3.40    -0.1    47.7        63.5
1982        62      75     69       7      2.2    50       3.9    0.07      4.70      0.4    48.5       59.6
1984        67      90     69       9      2.9    34       3.5    0.06      6.60      2.4    63.4       49.8
1986        72      90     72      10      3.1    25       3.2    0.07      8.50       2.9    73.1      48.6
Aguachica . . . .    1977          20      68       0       2     0.8    60       3.0    0.01       0.89    -2.4    38.3        42.3
1980        23      70      0       3      0.9    53       2.6    0.02      3.00      1.6    45.2       21.4
1982        26      78       0      4      1.1    40       2.5    0.02      4.00       2.3    59.5      19.2
1984        29      85       0      4      1.4    30       3.0    0.02      6.50      1.0    63.6       16.6
1986        32      90       0      5      1.6    28       2.4    0.02      8.50      1.8    69.9       15.2
Tumaco. . . . .        1977        25      14       0       2     1.0    35       7.5    0.07       1.97    -5.5    54.0    137.3
1980        51      31       0      5      2.2    28       3.4    0.07       3.50    -3.5    66.8       87.9
1982        55     45      30       7      3.2    26       4.0    0.08       7.10      3.3    69.1      54.8
1984        60      48     81       8      3.4    25       3.7    0.09    11.20        6.9    71.6      40.1
1986        65      52     78       9      3.7    25       3.4    0.10    13.90       8.7    73.5       38.4
Magangue. . . . .    1977          39      57      21       3     1.2    32       8.3    0.11       2.35    -5.7    57.1    114.8
1980        43     63      40       4      1.5    30       6.3    0.14      5.40    -2.4    68.6        92.8
1982        46      70     50       5      1.8    27       5.0    0.14    10.20        5.8    70.6      63.6
1984        48      76      65      5      2.1    25       5.0    0.16    14.40        4.2    71.6      57.7
1986        52     84      70       6      2.4    25       5.0    0.17    17.90        5.3    73.0      56.9
Codazzi . . . . .    1977          29      65               3     0.9    64       4.0    0.03       1.32    -1.9    30.7        60.8
1980        34      67              4      1.1    55       4.0    0.04       2.80      2.0    42.6      44.0
1982        37      70              4      1.4    40       4.0    0.04      4.30       4.6    57.9      34.7
1984        41      78              5      1.7    30       3.0    0.04       6.00      4.3    66.3      31.4
1986        45      88              6      2.1    28       3.0    0.04       7.50      5.3    69.6      30.4
Pamplona. . . . .    1977          38      71      57       4     1.6    37       4.3    0.03       1.32      1.2    54.8       58.9
1980        41      71     57       4      1.8    35       4.0    0.03      4.30    18.7    62.0        31.0
1982        44      80     65       5      2.1    28       4.0    0.04       7.30    20.0    69,6       22.6
1984        46      86     70       6      2.4    26       3.5    0.04    11.20    14.6    69.8         19.1
1986        49      90     70       6      2.7    25       3.5    0.04    14.00    14.8    73.2         18.6
Chiquinquira.  . .    1977         25      20      59       3     1.1    41       4.7    0.05       2.04      0.45   55.4       69.3
1980        27      21      58      4      1.1    40       4.0    0.07       3.70      2.4    58.0      66.0
1982        29      24     59       4      1.3    32       4.0    0.07       7.10    12.3    65.4       43.9
1984        31      27     60       5      1.6    28       4.0    0.08    10.30        7.1    69.6      36.5
1986        33      30     60       5      1.7    28       4.0    0.08    12.60        6.5    70.4      36.8
Sabanalarga . . .    1977          30      78       0       3     1.2    35       3.3    0.05       1.86    -2.7    54.2        89.7
1980        32      84     10       4      1.5    30       4.2    0.06       5.40      4.4    63.9      48.6
1982        35      88     59       4      1.7    25       6.3    0.08    10.90        6.1    72.2      36.1
1984        37      88     60       4      1.9    25       6.0    0.09    13.30        5.0    73.5      36.8
1986        39      88     60       5      2.0    25       5.7    0.10    16.60        6.0    73.5      36.2
Espinal . . . . .    1977          38      85      40       4     2.0    30       1.8    0.01       1.56      0.1    67.2       24.1
1980        43      85     40       5      2.2    30       1.6    0.02       3.40      2.7    67.2      20.6
1982        46      88     45       6      2.5    27       1.6    0.02       6.00      5.7    70.1      15.3
1984        50      90      60      7      2.8    26       1.5    0.03       9.80      5.7    69.9      13.2
1986        54      90      70      7      3.0    25       1.5    0.03    13.20        6.4    73.0      12.5
*       Combined water plus sewerage average tariffs.
N.A. * Not available.



ANNEX 11
75 -                      Page  1 of 2
COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Draft Outline Terms of Reference for Tariff Studies
Introduction
1.        The Government of Colombia and INSFOPAL agree on the need to revise
water supply and sewerage tariff structures and levels in the 23 cities inc-
luded in the proposed Bank loan to provide a sound financial basis for the
expansion of the services, to better achieve its resource allocation objec-
tives and to make these services affordable to the low income population.
For this purpose a tariff study for each city is to be executed in accordance
with the guidelines set out below.
Objective
2.        The purpose of each study is to devise a tariff structure which
complies with the revenue requirements of each EMPOS or EPM, reflects as
closely as possible the costs to the economy of meeting the increasing dlemand
for water and sewerage services, and ensures that services will be affordable
to the whole population (i.e., subsidizing minimal needs for poorer users).
In addition, the study will recommend timetables for the implementation of the
proposed tariff structures which will have to be consistent with the revenue
covenants agreed upon between the Government of Colombia, INSFOPAL, and the
Bank.
General Framework
3.        INSFOPAL, in coordination with DNP, and with the assistance of
consultants, should develop a "model" tariff structure to be applied by all
sector entities under INSFOPAL's jurisdiction. This "model" will conta:in
the basic parameters to be applied in the determination of specific tariff
structures at local levels. These parameters should include among others, a
definition of:
(a) financial objectives (consistent with those agreed with
the Bank for the proposed loan);
(b) which costs are to be recuperated through tariffs and
which through other charges, such as betterment Levies,
connection charges and other fixed charges;
(c) social objectives, through the application of a maximum
tariff (plus other charges) applicable for basic consump-
tion, that represents x percent of one minimum salary
or family income;



- 76 -                      ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
(d) resource allocation objectives, through the application of
tariffs for excess consumption (over the basic consumption)
that reflect as closely as possible long run average incre-
mental costs (excluding costs recuperated through other
charges);
(e) different tariff levels for different uses (industrial,
commercial, public and domestic), reflecting different
costs of the services and different abilities to pay; and
(f) metering policies for different users.
4.        INSFOPAL will take fully into consideration the following deficiencies
of the present tariff structures so that they will be eliminated in the revised
tariff structures. These deficiencies have been preliminarily identified; they
are not present in every tariff structure nor are they comprehensive:
(a) failure to revalue property assessments in a timely manner;
(b) no significant progressivity in tariffs in relation to
consumption;
(c) tariffs too low for commercial and industrial consumption;
(d) charges too low for sewerage services; and
(e) tariffs and charges not sufficient to comply with revenue
requirements.
5.        Each EMPOS and EPM that will execute a subproject under the
loan will undertake a specific tariff study following the guidelines to be
provided by INSFOPAL, in order to revise their tariff structure and level, and
will propose a schedule of implementation consistent with the schedules inc-
luded in the Loan Agreement between INSFOPAL and the Bank.



- 77 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALI SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Summary of Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
12.01     Complete financial projections containing tables showing production,
demand, financial, and econcomic data are available in the project file for the
23 cities benefitted by the project. A summary of the main assumptions used
in the financial projections are described below.
Revenues
12.02     Sales of water are based on projections for production and reduction
of unaccounted-for water, as shown in Annex 10. Operating revenues are from
billings which include charges for water consumption, sewerage services (when-
ever applicable), connection rights, installation charges, and whenever appli-
cable, municipal taxes earmarked to compensate for sewerage services. Average
tariffs are assumed to substantially increase from 1979 to 1983 (when all works
are estimated to be completed) and from 1984 on, principally to maintain their
value in real terms. Required rate increases are shown in Annex 23, and
expected combined (water plus sewerage) average tariffs per m3 sold are given
in Annex 10.  Raw water sales (Cartagena) are included in operating revenues
and are based on conservative consumption estimates. Nonoperating revenues
(whenever applicable) are assumed to grow slightly.
Operating Costs
12.03     Personnel expenses are based on present payrolls and assumed to
grow parallel to cost of living increases plus an average of 2% per year in
real terms to account for promotions, increase in personnel, bonuses, and
special subsidies. The costs of power and chemicals are assumed to increase
in proportion to water production and are adjusted by inflation. Other
operating expenses are assumed to increase in proportion to the number of
house connections.
Depreciation
12.04     Straight-line amortization method is used, and an annual average
of 3% was estimated on the basis of the average useful life of fixed assets.



- 78 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
Balance Sheet Accounts
12.05     Fixed assets 1/ and accumulated depreciation are revalued by ap-
plying the inflation factor. Accounts receivable are based on uncollected
billing and are assumed to be reduced from present levels to a maximum of
two months of billing by 1984 and thereafter. Inventories are estimated at
a level sufficient to cover three months of materials and chemicals required
for operations. Accounts payable are assumed to reflect unpaid bills for
operating costs (materials and services) from two to three months. Other
assets and liabilities, when historical records show no significant amounts,
are reduced to zero and when, amounts are large, these are kept constant
to avoid sharp increases or decreases in the flow of funds.
1/   Initial balances (1977) represent the best information obtained by
INSFOPAL or the best estimate made by the appraisal mission (para.
7.18(d) recommends inventory and evaluation of fixed assets).



ANNEX 13
- 79 -
COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM ANDi SMALL CITI:ES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE: FOMENTO MUNICIPAL (INSFOPAL)
Consolidated Statement cf Income and Expenses (Audited-/)
(Col$ million)
Statement of Incomne and Ex ense                    1975          1976           1977
REVENUES
Operations                                        64.5          55.8            7.6
Technical and administrative charges              17.1          34.9           42.1
Earnings on sale of materials                      8.1          16.3           18.1
Interest and other charges on loans               16.9          15.8           25.7
Other income                                       7.1           5.7            9.4
Total Revenues                                113.7         128.5          102.9
EXPENSES
Administrative                                    96.9         101.1          123.3
Operation of subsidiaries                         51.0          52.0            6.5
Other expenses                                     2.0           3.7           1.2.8
Total Expenses                                149.9         156.8          142.6
Income before depreciation                       (36.2)        (28.3)         (39.7)
Depreciation                                       1.9           2.0            2.0
Income before interest                           (38.1)        (30.3)         (41.7)
Interest and2gther charges on
borrowings-                                     61.8          66.0           50.3
Income (loss) in operations                      (99.9)        (96.3)         (92.0)
Government subsidy for operations
Disbursed from current year budget                88.0          85.9           45.2
Dibbursed from previous year budget                 -            0.8           42.9
Surplus (Deficit) for the Fiscal Year            (11.9)         (9.6)          (3.9)
1/ Fiscal audit by Contraloria General de la Republica (National Controller's Office).
2/ Includes exchange adjustments on borrowings.



- 80 -                                                  ANNEX 14
COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO MUNICIPAL (INSFOPAL)
Consolidated Balance Sheet (Audited
(Col$ Million)
Year Eiding December 31               1975       1976       1977           Year Ending December 31            1975       1976       1977
ASSETS                                                                    CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Fixed Assets                                                              Equity
Gross assets for public service.    551.5        432.5       83.2          Capital. . . . . . . . . . . . 1894.6    2205.2    3153.7
Other gross assets . . . . . . .       35.4       32.8       26.1          Contributions for works. . . .    95.9         90.2       46.5
Depreciation assets for public                                             Accumulated earnings (losses).   (27.8)    (31.5)    (45.6)
service (-). . . . . . . . . .       (4.7)      (3.9)       -               Total equity. . . . . . . . 1962.7    2263.9    3154.6
Depreciation other assets. . . .    (10.1)    (12.2)    (13.9)
Net fixed assets in service .    572.1        449.2       95.4
Works in progress. . . . . . . .    270.5        292.2       95.7       Long-term Debt
Total fixed assets. . . . . .    842.6        741.4     191.1          Payable to IBRD/-'.95.5                        191.9     400.6
Payable to IDBIl . . . . . . .   224.3        234.5      231.5
Long-term Investments                                                        Payable to AID . . . . . . . .       -         93.9      277.2
Local borrowings . . . . . . .   44.2          22.8       11.1
Stocks in affiliated companies        680.7      814.8    1259.1          Other. . . . . . . . . . . . .    74.7          34.3        -
Advances in account of stocks.        366.8      551.0      973.4             Total long-term debt. . . .  438.7         577.4      920.4
Notes receivable . . . . . . . .        0.3       11.6        -
Other investments. . . . . . . .        -          -          -
Total long-term investments .   1047.8    1377.4    2232.5           Current Liabilities
Borrowings due within one year:
Long-term Loans                                                             Payable to IBRD3/.                    -          7.3       8.2
LgEzBterm Loans                                                          Payable to IDBI/ . . . . . . .    11.1          12.7      13.6
For INSFOPAL/IBRD Projects . . .    174.8        375.0      751.0         Payable to other . . . . . . .        -          -         -
For other projects with program                                           Accounts payable.57.9                           75.8      79.6
credit . . . . . . . . . . . .    175.8        221.1     300.6          Deposits .81.b  . . .  . . . .       57.6      85.9       83.6
Loans to staff for housing . .         11.6       12.5      12.1          Other current . . . . . . . . .   40.2         45.2       29.4
Provision for bad debts . . . . .       -          -        (10. fD       Ohrcret                               02       4.         214.4
Provision for bad debts . -    -        (10.6)           ~~~~Total current liabilities    190.8      226.9      21.
Total long-term loans  . . .       362.2      608.6    1053.1             T         r         i14
Current Assets                                                            Deferred Credits and Other
Cash and Banks . . . . . . . . .       40.3      136.2      293.9         Liabilities
Receivable from customers. . . .        6.0        5.2        0.4         Deferred credits . . . . . . .    35.3          35.6      32.6
Uther receivables. . . . . . . .    165.1         70.5       65.5         Provisions and estimated
Other current assets . . . . . .       13.9        3.8        -              liabilities . . . . . . . .    12.0          11.4      14.6
Inventorie. . .    .  . . . . .        89.4       95.7     109.4             Total deferred credits. . .    47.3         47.0       47.2
Provision for bad debts (-). . .       (7.0)      (9.9)    (10.1)
Provision for inventory losses (-)   (6.6)        (6.2)      (6.5)
Tctal current assets. . . . .    301.1        295.3     452.6
Deferred Charges and Other Assets
Charges to investments pending
clarification  . . . . . . . .        4.1       31.3     390.6
Machinery and equipment in transit     44.3       23.1       11.5
Other.  . . . . . . .    . . . .       37.4       38.1        5.2
Total deferred assets . . .         85.8       92.5     407.3
TOTAL CAPITAL AND
TOTAL ASSETS  . . . . . . . . 2639.5    3115.2    4336.6                     LIABILITIES . . . . . . . 2639.3    3115.2    4336.6
1/   Fiscal Audit by Contraloria General de la Republica (National Controller's Office).
2/   Materials for works in water and sewerage are revalued at 10% over original cost.  Revaluation gains are recorded as
revenues on sale of materials.
3/  Carried out in US$ and converted into Colombian pesos at exchange rate effective at the end of the vear (US$1.00-Col$32.978
-    in 1975; Col$36.34 in 1976, and Col$37.96 in 1977). Exchange adjustment losses are expensed at the dnd of the FY.



- 81 -                             ANNEX 15
COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO MUNICIPAL (INSFOPAL)
Statement of Flow of Funds
(Col$ million)
Year Ending December 31                         1975         1976         1977
SOURCE OF FUNDS
Income (loss)before depreciation. . . . . . .    (36) /       (28)         (40)
Government subsidy for operations . . . . . .     88 -         87 a/        88
Cash available for debt service . . . . . . .     52           59           48
Equity:
Government budgetary funds for Debt Service      -            -           62
Government budgetary funds for Investments     341          311          851
Contributions for works . . . . . . . . . .      1           -             1
Total equity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    342          311          914
Borrowings:
Foreign - IBRD/. . . . . . . . . . . . . .      53           73          201
Foreign - AID/IFI . . . . . . . . . . . . .     -            33          183
Local   - FONADE and others . . . . . . . .     -            -            -
Total borrowings. . . . . . . . . . . . .     53          106          384
Loan repayments.  . . . . . . . . . . . . .     -            -            -
Changes in other liabilities. . . . . . . .     38            7           -
Transfer of fixed assets to affiliates. . .     -           100          555
TOTAL bUUKCES    . . . . . . . . . . .    485          583         1901
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Increase in fixed assets. . . . . . . . . . .    122
Investments:
Shares and deposits in affiliates . . . . .     17          134          444
Advances in account of shares . . . . . . .      90         184          422
Total investments . . . . . . . . . . . .    107          318          866
Loans:  IBRD/INSFOPAL PROJECTS .  . . . . .    148          200          376
Other   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  _  46        79
Total loans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    148          246          455
Debt service:  Interest . . . . . . . . . .     23           43           40
Principal I.D.B. . . . . . .     10           11            9
Principal Others . . . . . .      8           -            46
Total debt service. . . . . . . . . . . .     41           54           95
Changes in other assets.  . . . . . . . . .     56            7          315
Changes in working capital. . . . . . . . .     11           (42)        170
TOTAL APPLICATIONS . . . . . . . . . .    485          583         1901
a/ Includes disbursements for debt service.
b/ Does not include exchange adjustments.



- 82 -                                          ANNEX 16
COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO MUNICIPAL
PROJECTED INCOME AND CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(Col$ millions)
1978        1979        1980        1981        1982       1983
SOURCES                                          (Estimated)
Revenues:
Technical and Administrative Services a/           22          62          89         115         108         122
Interest and Other Charges on Loans                61         121         325         645         970      1 285
Other Income                                       23          30          30          30          30          30
Total Revenues                106         213         444         790       1 108       1 437
Expenses:
Administrative b/                                 130         153         183         214         243         278
Other Expenses                                     10          12          13          15          16          18
Total Expenses                140         165         196         229         259         296
Income Before Depreciation and Interest             (34)         48         248         561         849       1 141
Loan Repayments c/                                   38          50          87         162         191         231
Borrowings:
IBRD III d/                                        -            6         183         630         541         194
IBRD Others                                       189         498         511         123          62          -
IDB                                                -          239         534         545         260          -
Other                                              -           19          17          22          -           -
Equity:
Government Funds - Projects Cofinancing           132         724       1 030       1 333      1 028          257
- Investments                  553         473         671         847         994       2 000
- Operations                   109          71          -           -           -           -
Total Sources                 987       2 128       3 281       4 223       3 925       3 823
APPLICATIONS
Loans:   IBRD/INSFOPAL:  Project III                 -           12         335       1 252       1 111         451
IBRD/INSFOPAL   Other                     327         976         989         310         155          -
Other e/                                   87         498       1462        2 038       1 878       2 790
Investments in EMPOS (Stock)                        415         473         160         209         241          -
Debt Service:
Interest                                           78          91         141         206         264         293
Principal                                          25          25          52          58          66          72
Cash Surplus (Deficit) for Working Capital           55          53         142         150         210         217
Total Applications            987       2 128       3 281       4 223       3 925       3 823
a/  Assumes 57. charge on local funds (loan plus investments) disbursed.
h/  Assumes increases due to inflation plus increase in real terms of 2% in FYs 1979, 1982-1986, and 5% in
real terms in FYs 1980-1981.
c/  Loan repayments are estimated on the basis of onlending conditions presently in effect for on-going
programs.
d/  Bank's loan assumes:  17 years term, including four years of grace period; 7.9% interest rate, and
0.75% commitment charge on undisbursed amounts.
e/  Includes reinvestment of net  interest  income starting in 1981.



COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Consolidated Statements of Income of Empresas Publicas Municipales
(Col$ million)
I N C O M E                                                                        E X P E N S E S
wnt.r...!-                                       Tnterest &                                          Water/.qew.       Net
Year Ending                     Tech. &              Total      as % of Total                        Admin-       Financial      Depre-                 Total       as % of Total    Income
December 31    Operations    Admin.    Other    Income             Income             Operations    trative    Expenses         ciation    Other    Expenses           Expenses        (Loss)
E,F,M. DE CARTAGENA            1977            250.7          -        16.3      267.0 /         60%                 157.4        45.0          18.5         14.5        -           235.4           57X           31.6
1976            182.5          -       11.0      193.5a/          57%                  99.1        50.8          18.1         10.9        -           178.9           55%           14.6
1975            153.6         -          7.3      160.9!/         63%                  84.6        37.7          15.4          9.7        -           147.4           57%           13.5
_)  7   I                                                 .  ,__                                                      
E.P.M. DE CARTAGO              1977             56.3         5.7         .7/      b/./           z67.                 4i-4        11.6           2.0          2.1        _            57.1           265           10.6
1976             40.6        5.1        2.7Y/    48.4             22%                  29.2         8.5           2.1          2.0        -           41.8            26%            6.6
1975             28.9        3.1         3.1-/    35.1            25%                  20.0         7.2           1.6          1.9        -            30.7           28%            4.4
E.P.M. DE CALARCA              1977             13.9          -         4.7       18.6                                 7.4         8.0           2.0          -          -            17.4                          1.2
1976              9.7          -         6.4       16.1                                 5.4         5.5           5.1          -          -            16.0                          0.1
1975               7.9        -          3.8       11.7                                 4.6         4.8           3.0          -          -            12.4                         (0.7)
E.P.M. DE MONTERIA             1977             21.5          -         9.8       31.3           73%                  16.5         9.7           -            -         3.6           29.8           63%            1.5
1976             17.7          -         7.6       25.3           72%                  12.3         6.7           -            -         3.            22.8           72%            2.5
1975             13.6         -          3.2       16.8           50%                  10.4         4.6           -            -         2. 65         17.6           65%           (0.8)
E.P.M. DE NEIVA                1977             33.6        2.9         1.0       37.5           64%                  20.4         7.1           0.9          2.8        -            31.2           61%            6.3
1976             25.8        2.4         0.7       28.9           62%                  15.4         5.7           1.0          1.7        -            23.8           56%            5.1
1975             21.5        2.9         1.0       25.4           64%                  12.5         4.6           0.8          0.5        -            18.4           57X            7.0
a/  Includes municipal taxes:  Col$32 million in 1975, Col$32 million in 1976, and Col$38 million in 1977.
b/  Includes subsidy from government budgetary funds:  Col$2.5 million in 1975, Col$2.4 million in 1976, and Col$4.4 million in 1977.
c/ Includes depreciation, interest and provision for bad debts.



~~~~~~~- .4 4   4     0    4    0      4  4 0       0    0     '#    0
I    0 0              040                                                                                        ANNEX   IS
'#1       1         ,               4    40 0,40.44 EN                1  1     <      iM
4       0
I                 040           4'   04 N00                      0            04J    4  _ 
4       O.-          0.40 .D              04          .00    0 14104             ,-    00I
44l =
I         _1                 04 ,.   4 0 404        100           ov0 04    4404
I     .4             N 10               
41      0 0    =         4   -   4_1                    0 4     4    0    4 4     4
4      - 4 0          4 0    4    4   0    0          4    0      0   4   4      0    4
41       0              0  4  0        4  4   4  40  4   4  4       0  44; 
.4         4(4b                                       E¢lZ  
4-        00 11 0V .,404                     . ,,04                 <VX 
4.  p   4440                        8      v ''            oe@                    e     .  r 
r44       44        1         x  
I -ICD                   u|s            s       
A   41  I  <            <.oo           04400                        404040          04400r
X~~~~ 0                                        0                    04  40         i400N40g*
4"0      i    4j    n00Su O i n  
0.    I   4w    ;H"8                                                            Ne
0.0 P     4         0H
4.0    -4 40 4 0 40 4 40 0 4
'-4                        40     0     00     4    40      4        04O4             4040  o  oN^ 
.~ ~ ~~444  0404  44   444   00440 g_I&1n                                 D
400          eNoNNw  2<<n    
C°o)     o             00° i
01j i f                      G_                _    h     <_  ch0 4040  400  4000       404 4
i  li                    40I-- H404040P <_
tO   4.    40440    00                                           00              44   OOoO   
40    .404              0404Or_        N ~ 
01 V        5NeNN_
;                      U 1               No.  4004                 4-4-4           I
i  '00                   NS O   
04                040            000            4 C4   4    44  II 04-        0040 RD
i    40                04400c400                                                     44
4   *0  4.           -4       E     _  oV          xqCI       
4 v     05vj          _o  3 s }<    ¢  t  lSSS                                   e( 
IZ.440             H<_j sX   0 404400044 44040404040 
44  c o4            400          0 04 4 0                     4 4            400
40 ' 4               4  4   4      4  4             4    4    0     4    4    4    4
4    0.0           0.4ouD.-40s                                 r       e      Nwou
40o            _  i_          C              m  h C                             lo
044               4  0     4     4     4     4     4     0     0     0     0     4
0 4 4     4 0    0 4    4 0    0 4    4 0    0 4    4 0    4 0    0 4    4
0      044           0440           0444           0044           000
4.4       400          a4 -           4004a
i                      > 4                            C 
N      v.           X04             04             4



COLOMBIA
THRID MEDlIJM AND SMALL CITIIES WATER SUPPLY ANTD SEWERAGE PROJECI
Statements of income of Empresas de Obras Sanitariam (EMPOS) a!
(ColS millions)
I NSCORME                                                                             E XlP E N  SE  S
Technical                                                                                                                                                         NET
Present Denomination    Year Ending                            and Admin.        Sale of                                                        Adminis-   interest and                                                         INCOME
(Previous Denomination)  December 31             operattG.ng   Services         Materials       Other          TOTAL            Operations       trati-e    Financial tap.   Depreciation            Other           TOTAL       (LOSS)
EMPOBOL  ......                 197 7                 14.7         0.9               -           2.7           18.3                 19.8           6.8             0.8                 -                 -           2 7 .4      C9.1)
(Aruabl) .  .....               1976                 12.6         0.5                -           0.7           13.8                 15.4           5.4             0.2                 -               0.1           21.1        C7.3)
(Ac.abol). .....                1975                   9.0         0.2               -           0.4            9.6                 11.3           3.2             0.1                 -                 -           14.6        C5.0)
EMPOBOYACA .....                1977                   b.8         0.8               -           0.9            7.9                  3.4            2.6            0.1                 -                0.2           6.3          1.6
(Dir. Sectional)..              1976                   9.8        0.3               0.1          0.1           10.3                  8.5           3.0             0.2                 -                0.3          12.0        C 1.7)
(Dir. Sectional)..              1975                 11.0         0.1                -           0.2           11.3                  7.4           2.8             0.2                 -                0.3          10.7        ( 0.6)
EMPOCESAR  .....                1977                   8.5         2.3               -0.1                      10.9                  5.3            4.5             -                  -                 -            9.8          1.1
(Empocesar) .....               1976                   1.6          -                --                         1.6                  0.7           0.8              -                  -                 -1.5                      0.1
(ucr. neerlonal) .              iDI                    4.2          -                -            -             4.2                  2.9           1.9              -                  -                 -            4.8        (0.b)
EMPOGIRA ......                 1977                   5.5        0.4               0.1          0.2            6.2                  5.4            2.7             -                  -                0.6           8.7        C2.5)
(Dir. Seccional-Guagira)         1976                  5.0         0.1               -           0.6            5.7                  5.8           2.7             0.2-                                 1.3          10.0        C 4.3)
(Dir. S.ccional-Gusgira)        1975                   4.1          -                -           0.2            4.3                  3.6            2.2-                      -                         0.2           6.0        ( 1.7)
EMPOLIMA~.         ....         1977                  17.0          -               0.1          1.0           18.1                 17.4           10.2            0.1                 -0.7                          28.4        (10.3)
(Ac.atolima) . . . .            1976                 14.1         0.1               0.1          0.6           14.9                 14.6            8.4            0.2                                  0.3          23.5        ( 8.6)
(Ac.atolinma) . . . .           1975                 10.3         0.2               0.3          3.0           13.8                 11.3            6.2            0.2                 -                0.4          18.1        C 4.3)
EMPONAR. ......                 1977                   8.1          -               0.4          2.3           10.8                  6.9            4.1            0.4                1.4                -           12.8        ( 2.0)
(Auanar). .....                 1976                   9.3         -                 -           2.3           11.6                  6.6            3.4            0.4                1.4                -           11.8        ( 0.2)
(Acuanar). .....                1975                   5.1        0.2               0.8          2.1            8.2                  5.6           2.8             0.4                1.6                            10.4        C 2.2) 
EMFOTLAN ......                 19 77                 21.4         3.5               -           1.8           26.7                 25.8             -             0.1                 -                 -           25.9          0.8
(Acuatlantica) . . .            1976                 11.8         1.4-                           0.7           13.9                 17.8                    -                 -                          -           17.8        ( 3.9)
(Acuatlantica) . . .            1975                 10.5          -                 -            -            10.5                 10.4            3.1             -                  -                0.1          13.6        ( 3.1)
EMPORIS. ......                 1977                   3.1          -               1.0          0.1            4.2                  1.4            2.6             -                  -                2.0           6.0        (1.8)
(Eapora) . .....                1976                  0.9          -                0.2           -             1.3                  0.9           0.6              -                  -                 -            1.5        (0.4)
(Dir. Secctional).              1975                  0.8          -                 -           0.3            1.1                  1.1            1.3             -                  -                0.2           2.6          1.9)
EMeOGIRARDOT . .                1977                  17.3          -               0.6          0.1           18.0                  9.6            3.9            0.1                1.2                -           15.0          3.0
(Acuagirardot) . . .            1976                   9.7          -               0.5          0.1           10.3                  7.6            2.4            0.1                1.0-                           11.1        ( 0.8)
(Acuagirardot) .. .             1975                   8.7          -                -            -             8.7                  6.4            1.8            0.1                1.0                -9.3                    (0.6)
EMPOPAOOPLONA. .  . .            1977                  2.7          -               0.1-                        2.8                    -            2.3            0.1-                         -                     2.4          0.4
(AcuapamPlona) . . .            1976                   2.0          -                -            -             2.0                    -            2.3            0.1-                         -                     1.8          0.2
(Ac-pamPlons). . .              1975                   1.4          -               0.2          0.1            1.7                                 1.3             .                 0.1-                            1.4          0.3
EMPOSSICRE   .....              1977                   9.8         3.6              0.4          0.6           14.4                 10.0            4.0              --                         -                    14.0          0.4
(Dir. S.ctional)..              1976                 11.9           -               0.5          0.7           13.1                  9.9            3.6                                --                            13.5        ( 0.4)
(Dir. S ...ioO.al)..            1975                   8.7          -               0.2           -             8.9                  6.3            2.5                                - -                            8.8          0.1
EM1'ODIIPAR  .....              1977                  12.7          -                -           1.6           14.3                    -           11.2            0.2                 --11.4                                      2.9
(Acuadopar)   . . . .           1976                 10.6           -                -           0.2           10.8                   -             7.4            0.2--                                              7.6          3.2
(Acuadupar)   .   ..            1975                   6.2          -               0.2          0.6            7.0                  3.0            2.7            0.1                 -                 -            5.8          1.2
EMPOIBAGIJE .....               1977                  29.8          -                -           1.4           31.2                 10.4           10.3            0.2                2.4               5.1          28.6          2.4
(Acuaibague)                    1976                 20.3         0.2                -           1.0           21.5                 10.5            7.8            0.2                 -                0.3          18.8          2.7
(Acuaibazuel  . . . .           1975                 18.3           -               0.4          0.6           19.3                 18.5                           0.2                 -                 -           18.7          0.6
E1,TOPAST0                      1977                  15.0         0.3               -           0.4           15.7                  6.4            4.4            0.1                1.5               0.6          13.0          2.7
(Ac.apasto)   ..   .            1976                  12.1        0.5                -           0.5           13.1                  5.1            6.6            0.1                1.0               0.4          13.2        C0.1)
(Acuapasto)  . . . .            1975                 10.6          -                0.4           -            11.0                  4.6           4.9             0.2                 -                 -            9.7          1.3
a/  Regional (or municipal) entities in charge of water, sewerage and other public services
in araions cities, including the cities which will benefit from the project.



ccc ccc ccc  ec ccc ccc            trxx 2a
ccc ccc ccc ccOcccC,nc.Ocfl
5      -   - -                                       c.       -
cccc,-.,c0   o--,-r       ccc c-.'fl          ccc
I                      -
cc-, ci, Icc c-.c  I I  cc  cc,.           ccc       -cc   cc
*           cc    c  cc                    c
* ccc ccc ..,cc ccc ccc ccc ccc ..Cnc cc ccc -fl-c 0' ccc
cc     -   c         -           c.                       --  cc
cc-. ccc ccc '-cc cue ccc ccc  cc,- ccc c cccnccc.-Jcccc
ci-  cc-ccccc   cc  ccc cc cc,nccc
-cc c - cc,-              c            ccc       cc
'ten   c.-.c ccc ecec cc ccc ccc ,-cc ccc  e cc cc,- .ccc ccc ccc cc,-
c,- ccc ccc  ccc ccc cc cc.cccccccc
,-cccc cccccc    cc ci-. c cc  ccc ccc ccc
ccc cc... c   cc,- ccc ccc c-.  ccc ccc cc  ccc ccc ccc
-,   c c  S   0 c c c c c ccc cc   ccc           ccc ccc ccc
2 ci   0   , c -  ccc ,-cc ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc  ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc c c
c          2   ccc -ccc,- cc ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc  ccc ccc ccc ccc -ccc
O   c-cc cci-c cc,- ccc ccc ccc ccc c.nc  ccc c   ccc ccc ccc ccc
I...  cccccccccccc    ccc cc  -ccc                        c   ccc
cc,- c   ccc cc  c cc                  c   ccc
ct  c.-.c ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc  ccc cccc .ccc ccc ccc ccc
C          I'  cc,- ccc ccc ccc ccc cccc cc ccc  i..t-4 'i-I--- -ccc ccc ccc ccc
S                                                                                   c
8
ccc ccc            -Sc.-i         cc
Ccc ccc ccc            ccc            cc          -
5
cccccc                                      cci cc   I.
c-cc,- cc...    .    ccc cc.,- ccc  ccc ccc ccc c
cc2 cc  -ccc .i-.n. ccc ccc ,25d ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc c
-ccc ccc  .nc ccc ccc ccc ccc  ccc         ccc ccc ccc ccc
I
cccc  ccc  cc... cccccccccccc.ncfl            ccc ccc ccc -ccc
ccc      c    ccc
ccc ccc ccc  ccc ccc cc-c cc,- cc    2  -            -ccc             it
ac
en ci ccc ccc ccc  c-cc ccc ccc ccc ccc  ccc ccc -ccc ccc ccc c-cc   08
Oct              .                                                      .   ti-I
ccc ccc ccc  ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc  ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc   con
CI cc ccccccc  ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc  ccc             cccl -cc ccc ccc
en                                                                         2...
-    vi cent cc.., ccc ccc ccc ccc ccv, ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc c c            V
C, cccccccccccccccccccccc,-cccc,-ccccc,-ccccc
c ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc cc -5
1
H
5              c  -c                   c             cci
"-'H:---                t '-2 Cd cc
-                        n  00 55  *    cc          -c
o                           a.c     c    c,          H
-'li-c Inn t ii Ccc  ci. Ciin                   an.  S  i-Il
ccci, cnc    C  cc  cc.  Inc                eta Wt  c  ci-
ccccci-c cOin Ccc cnn ccc cccl n4  OCic 5-5 e a.c .i-
ccc c cic cj -cc c  cc. eat . .
cnn c-- cc - i.... -in-, cnn ,, c..  ccc               c*W  OW
ccc ccc cc i.cI-. c-c c,c  ccc ccci        tcc  cli- ccc ccc cc
cc.  t St -t  rc



COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN FOR THE CONSTRUCTION PERIOD (1980-1983)
(Col$ millions)
O U e Y , # X = t a  s                                           > s = a  l a
a    a                           C      S                                                     o    On                   N O   O y   z    W   ,z,    k   a    <  2   4  O    O      =    H  g )d
Io   Befor      0                     lapre  a a n0 . .                          0 4    2               a1             3
On 1    u             N    a          a~  '0 CS                                   IdN    )   ' w-  ~0             0
co    S       a                           .           0)                  a    'H   0                     u   '0 
is     N      -    -4    e    0     .   5     0.    N    ad   to   C    'iI5              0     0     1 0       -4
z         iS          aQ                   ocr   a         'a .0           a)         a     .,-  -,s    0
C-,  6H    00             O                'u  '     z     5).  P,     D.   0.i             C     -~
Income Before Depreciation ......15  621   33   16   20   14   22   34   46   36  183   23  159  124   47  161   26   40   26  us5  111   31  159  2062
Net Mon-operational Revenues . . .  .                -  196    -    -    -    -    -    7    -    -  (1)    3    -    3    -    -    -    -    -   11    -    -    -   219
C-ross Inte,rl  .Cash Generation. . .             15  817   33   16   20  .14   22   41   46   36  182   26  159  127   47  161   26   40   26  126  111   31  159  2281
Total Debt Service (-). . . . . . . .               (5)(353)  (9)  (2)  (4)  (2)  (4)  (5)  (5)  (5)(119)  (5) (63) (46)  (4) (49)  (2)  (7)   -  (18) (12)  (8) (48) (775)
Total Working Capital Needs (-) . . .               11 (158)  (8)  (4)   -   (2)  (3)   1   (6) (11)  (1)  (2) (11) (10) (19) (25)  (8)  (8)  (2)  (5) (24)  (4) (27) (326)
Other Liabilities (+) or Assets (-) .                -   11    1    _    _    _    _    _    _    1    1    1    -    -    -    1    -    -    -    -    2    -    -    18
Total Contribution to Investment. .               21  317   17   10   16   10   15   37   35   21   63   20   85   71   24   88   16   25   24  103   77   19    84  1198
Investment in Project . . . . . . . .               89  507   79   38   74   43   72  125  116   67  172   90  584  153   79  200   33  114   69  282  212   83  209  3490
Technical Assistance. . . . . . . . .          67          -    -    -    -           -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    67
Interest During Construction. . . . .               12  176   15    6    9    6    8   24   20   14   20   18  119   33   16   38   13   13   17   73   56   11   40   757
Other Works .-109   -  -  -  -  -  -  3  -  -  -  -  36  -  27  16  -  -  8  -  -  -  199
Total Investments . . . . . . . . .          67 101  792   94   44   83   49   80  149  139   81  192  108  703  222   95  265   62  127   86  363  268   94  249  4513
Total to be Financed. . . . . . . .          67   80  475   77   34   67   39   65  112  104   60  129   88  618  151   71  177   46  102   62  260 191   75  165   3315
Financed By:
IBRD Loan for Project . . . . . . .          41   42  226   30   16   35   21   32   46   46   29   71   39  243   64   35   89   14   58   23  139   83   24   82  1528
INSFOPAL Loan for Project . . . . .          26  38  155   47   18   32   18   33   66   58   31   58   49  375   51   36   61   15   44   39  115  108   51   83  1607
Other INSFOPAL Loan Other Project .                -   48    -    -    -    -    -    -            _    _    _    _   22    -   16   10    -    -    5    -    -    -    101
Other IBRD Loan Other Project . . .                -   14    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    _    -    _    _    _    _    _    _    _                14
Total Loans. . . . . . . . . .         67   80  443   77   34   67   39   65  112  104   60  129   88  618  137   71  166   39  102   62  259  191   75  165  3250
Construction Contribution. . .          -    -   32-    -    -    _    _    _                                     14    -   11    7    -    -    1    -    -    -    65
Total Financed . . . . . . . .         67   80  475   77   34   67   39   65  112  104   60  129   88  618  151   71  177   46  102   62  260 191   75  165   3315



PROMCT
.0TlLETARIFE STRUCWRF
P'" -Y
Ch-g..                                                                                                                                                                           P.-   SOd.d                      -11d.,., -h-h.  II.---                             W,-b-  Ei--                                           P..,1-
15          25             20        20            20          20          20           25            20           1            2            20            20        2             11            11          11          10            11           11           21           2.             20
I                      I              7         11                        12            11           41I          ll.,        II            'l.Eo    4             1,                        IO          I8            17           I4           18           10
R 1,   = g.W                                      2.75        070          15,80                    I                                     I                                                                                                                     .50                                     50         1.70         1.20          1.10
-9                                                                    2                                                                                          2                          1          1.50          1.20         2            3           2             2            1
II.DW                                                       15           25            20         20            20          2           10           21            20           11           11           20            11        21                         1'                                     20           20           N            20     
8            5           I0         15            I                                    i'            1,            4            5           I2            'o        5            11           21           1a          I'            22           'o           18           I0            I0
Add.-    I h-             $J                     2.75         0.70          1,80      2              '.N                    2            I             1            2.50                                    1 
15.000    E. 1 .-        'a-    3. . . .                   1 BM. h-g. W    $  1,  21  N         20            20           0          20           25            11           11           10 
I                                                        14         5             4          'I                       25             'I           4           'I           11           'O        15             22                        I0         I                                        2
Addili.-I h-g. WI /.3 . . . .                    275          0.70           1.80      2                                     2            1             1            2.50         2.50         1.80          1.80      150           1.20         2            3.50        2             2             I.I.         I.I.        1,21)          1,10
20,000    S-i                           . .                 5
1- I,  h,,,,                                                  2            2         2              20         20           20           255           20           15           20          20             20        2                          1'           I'          'o            20           20           W            20            20
14                      14           3          30           2             2I           70            5           20            71                      22           4           30          18            35           21           11           11            21
Addi               g W          . . . .            2.75        MO                       2             1                        2            1             1           2.5         1.5          1                       1.50           1.20        2             3.50       2             2                                                     1.10
25.000    B..i. ---pli-  .'              ..                  I
5          25            20         20            20          20          20           25            20           15           20           20            20        20            25           15           15          20            20           20           20           20            20
v        30             30          31          48           25            30           70           55           30            71        65            22           46           30          18            45           11           11           21            21
Add                g.  .,$/.3 . . . .              2.71         0,70          1.80      2             1                        2            1             1            2.50        2 . 50       1.80          1.80       1.50          1.20         2            3.50       2              2            I            I            I             I10
30.000    B-l ---p"..                                       5           25            20        20            20          20
..i  h-          1                                                                                            31           2            2,5           20           15           20          20             20        20                                                                2            20           2            20            20
'o            30        3'            'o                      48            2             30          7,           5'           30           lo'       1'                                       M          25            45            38          31            27            20
Ad                           .3:                   52 75        0.70          1.50      2             1,50                     2            1             1            2.50        2.1.         1.0           I.N        1.10          1.20         2            3.51       2              2            150          1            I_.           1.10
B di, i-lg=g! WI$/                                                                                                                                                                                                                   22           46
40. "      E..j.                  .3                         15           25            20         20            20          20          20           2             20           15           20          20             2         20            25           15           15          20            20           20           20           20     
B.- 1 h-g. Wl$                                  'o           10            30        45            30                       48           35            30         '10           7,           30           IO'       'O'             4'                        30         21             55           38          so            31            20
Addili.-I  h-s.                  . . . .           4.75         0.71          1.        2              1.50                    2            I             1            2.50         2.50        1.80           I..       LW            1.           2            3.50        t             2            1.50         170          1.            1.10
50.000    B    j _.._Pi_  .3
. .       : -         15           25            20        20            20                       21           1             20          15           20           20            20        20             23           15           15         20             20           20           20           N             20
B.U  b.". Wl $ . . .                                          20            30                       30         41           7            35            40         110           75                        I"        J"              40            7           I           25           55            31           70           14            30
Addill.-l  h..g. .1$1.3                                                                                                                     I                                                    I                       1.10          1.20         2            3.50        2             2            1.50         170          1.            1.10
471        0,70           1,80      2             1.50                    2                          1            2.51         .5
60. OW     B-i - .-pli-                                     15                          'o        20            21          11          20           25            20           11           M                          N         2             25           11           15          20            2            20           20           20      
B                             .3                               10            I         4              5                      71                         40            1           71          41           1,5       1'5             70                        70          'I            61           51            10          11            30
Addii- j h.. W,$                               4,75         0,70           1.80      2             1.70                                 I             1            2            2            1..          1.80      1.50          1.20         2            3.50        2             2            1            1. 'o        I             IIo
70.OW      B..i                  j                           15           25            20        20            20          20           20           25            20            5          20           2             21        21             25           15           15         20             20           N            20           20     
2"', 'b"g  W                                                   20            55         11             5         'i           76           50            'o          I so        100           45           13,       I35             7'          14            70          It            65           50           80
Add,i...l %=                                                     .7,          1..      2                                                                                            .50        1.80                                                                                                      'o
gWI                             475          0                                     1.70                     2            1             1            2            2                         1.80       1.50          1.20         2            3.50        2             2            1            1.7         1. 20         1.10
M. 000    B..i                   .3 . . .                                                                                   10
15           25            20        20            20                      W            25            20           15           20           20            20        20             25           15           15         20             20           20           20           20            20
'o          20             15                       5           1           76          'O            'o          '50          100           60           '35       1'5            70          14,           70          32            75            50           80          41             10
Addil...l  h-l. WI$/.'                             4, 7 5       0.71            o      2             1.70                     2            z             1            2,50        2.50         2             I.BO      1.50           1.20         2            3.50       2              2            1.50         171         I             1.10
100,        B..i                  ... . . . . . .             15           2            20        20             20         20           20           25            20           15           20          20            20         20            25           15           15          20            20           20           20           20     
h-g. 1 . . . . . . . .                  W             ,            55        84            65          75         110           'O            W           150          100           60          I70        17"            70          I4,           7'          50              5          5'          100                         40
Addl--i &-,. WI$/ .. . . . .                        4.75         0.70          1."       2             ,"                       2            1             1            2           2.50         2             1.80      1.50           1.20         2          3,50         2              2            150          1.70         1.20          1.10
120.000    - i                    .3 . . . .                  15                                                  2           11          21           25            20           15           20           20            20        2             25           15           15          2             20           2            20           20     
'15           90       1 '400         1'5         7,         lf0           50                        15G          130           80           I70       170                           5         i10          501            95           70         i0,           50            40
1                                                                          'o
Addi'i-                                               . 7 3      0 70                                                                                                   2.50          .50                                 I.5.        I.10           2            3                                       .50          70           20          1.10
150.000    B   i ... ft..                                    L5          25             2O       10            20          20          20           25            20           15           20           20            20        20            25           15           15          20            2            20           20           20      
B:.i h-o  Wl $                                   'o           ',           2        14                         7,          Ila           'o             5         1so          130           80           170       170             9'         19 5         1W           50             50           '2         IM                           40
Addili ... I -g- C-1$1-'                           6. 7 5      0.70           1.60       2             1,70                    2            1             1            2"O         2.50         2             1.80       1.50          1.20         2            3.50        2             2            I,           I.7.         i.2.          1 to
200,000                            3 . . . . . .               O            21            11        2             10          21            1          11            20           11           20           20            20        2'            25           15           15          20            W            20            M           20      
h-  . C-I$                                00                                   40            40                       'o           'o                                    I                          17,       170             'o         ...          160          so           I50            W          iO'            50           40
Addi,-18 ,zg .1$;.l                                                                     2                                                                1              .1         .1.        2             LHO        1.50          1.20         2            3.50                      2            1. 50        1.70         1.20           1,10
6,75        0,70           1.80                    2                       2            1                          2            2                                                                                        2
250,000                           .3 . . .                     15           2 5           2'        2'            20          21           21           25            21           15          20           10            10        21                                                  11             N                         20           N     
RM h-g. WI$  . ;$i.,r                           IW            30           B       2 1 5         "'o                      150           'o                          0         1W           "I            lo        70            120          211          280        143            150          lw                         W             5
Addili ... I  h-g. W                                7.25            70          1,80      2             2                       2            1             1            L.           2..         3             1.80       1.50          1.20         2            3.10        2             2            1            1.70         1.21
WATER - ERC
B..i                  ., . . .                    15           25            20         20            20          20          20           2             20           15           20          zo            20         20            25           2'                     '00             20           20           20           20            2
E-1, Ih,,,:,-l !. . . . . . . .                     9          30                     ,20-          120           75 -85      76           38,80         35         161*         12 ."        W            I11       i11            IM           214          210           2.1.         11           7             ,-,Oo       61            31
Addi __I               WI                            1.75        070            1,80                    2          4 07        2            1             1          21I            3.,         2                                                  2            3.50        3            b,            15.          1 70
WATM   - IMMSTRIKL                                     (R..)    ,3
3                         42. 1         21                                      0         'o           2'                         2            11           20          2             11         21            25           20           15           1            20           20           2'           'o            2
B.i,                $                                                         10        11            00          75-.1       76           31.7.         35          12*           2.,o       so           110       'I5             00          2 54         150           3            55           50%-         3' -I..                    48
-11 lh-g%.G,I.                                        50        MO             1..      2                       in            2            1             1         Z94             3.25        1.,o          7          1.50          1,2,         2            3.50        -            66               5.        I.I.         1.5          I
Add ii.-I          9W1
I!ATER -GMRIMM
2    11                       . . . . . .           15           45            20        W             30          30           20          45            20           15           30           30            20        20            25            30          30          W             45           15            W           10
B-                                                  'o            -            30        50                        15                                      11*         44           31                         40        40            W            11             6         41                         50           41           21
1                        2.,o                                 I                          2               50       , 'o                          'o
Ad ili- I              Wl$/.3   . . . .              3. 50                      1,80       160           1,70                    2            1                          2                        1             1                        1                         3                         2            1             .7          I.N           1. 10
SEWERAa   - % ON WATER BILLINC
50      so            11        W             3           40           40          20             20          30           20          30            30         30                                      0
30                      30             30           30           30           10            30
. . . .           50           W             11        0              30         40           40            0             0          W            20           30            30        W             4            30           40          30            W            W            W            20            30
3                                                                           2
W           10             35        W              0          4            40           20           20           30            a          30            30         30            40           30           W           30            30           W            W            20            30
C.--                                                        W            50            35        W              'O         10           40           20            20          30           20           30            30        30            40           30           10          W             W            30           W            20
Al-91 by -1.9.-
Addil-l



- 89 -
COLOMBIA                                                 ANNEX 23
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL-SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT                      Page 1 of 2
PROJECTED AVERAGE WATER AND SEWERAGE TARIFFS
1977      1978       1979       1980      1981       1982       1983       1984      1985       1986
AGUACHICA
Sewer Revenue Assumption         0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00      0.00       0.0 0     0.00
Tariff Water $/m3                0.89       0.89      2.00       3.00       3.50       4.00       5.50      6.50       7.50      8.50
% Annual Tariff Increase                    0.00    125.00      5MOiD      16.67      14.29      37.50    18.18       15.38     13.33
CALARCA
Sewer Revenue Assumption        52.00     50.00      50.00      50.00      50.00     50.00       50.00    60.00       50.00     60.00
Tariff Water $/m3                1.20       1.44      1.89       2.30       2.70       3.20       4.00      4.50       5.00      5.70
% Annual Tariff Increase                   20.00     31.25      21.69      17.39      18.52      25.00    12.50       11.11     14.00
CARTAGENA
Sewer Revenue Assumption        52.00     40.00      40.00      40.00      40.00     40.00       40.00    40.00      40.00      40.00
Tariff Water $/m3 1/             3.34       5.68      6.59       7.51       8.50       9.50      10.70    12.00       13.50     15.20
% Annual Tariff Increase                  70.06      16.02      13.96      13.18     11.76       12.63    12.15       12.50     12.59
CARTAGO
Sewer Revenue Assumption        37.50     35.00      35.00      40.00      40.00     40.00       50.00    50.00       50.00     50.00
Tariff Water $/m3                2.00       2.40      3.50       4.50       6.00      7.00        8.00      8.50       9.50     10.50
% Annual Tariff Increase                  2D.00      45.83      28.57      33.33     16.67       14.29      6.25      11.76     10.53
CHIQUINQUIRA
Sewer Revenue Assumption         30.00      3D.00     30.00      30.00      40.00     40.00       50.00    60.00       60.00     60.00
Tariff Water $/m3                 1.67       1.67      2.28       3.00       4.50       5.50       6.50      7.30      '8.00      9.00
% Annual Tariff Increase                     D.00     36.53      31.58      50.00     22.22       18.18    12.31        9.59     12.50
CODAZZI
Sewer Revenue Assumption          0.00       3.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
Tariff Water $/m3                 1.32       1.32      2.00       2.80       3.50       4.30       5.00      6.00       6.70      7.50
% Annual Tariff Increase                     3.00     51.52      40.00      25.00     22.86       16.28    20.00       11.67     11.94
COPACABANA
Sewer Revenue Assumption         29.14     41.00      40.00      50.00      50.00     50.00       50.00    60.00       60.00     60.00
Tariff Water $/m3                 0,88       0.66      2.30       2.70       3.00       3.40       3.80      4.20       5.30      5.90
% Annual Tariff Increase                     0.00    161.36      17.39      11.11     13.33       L1.76    10.53       26.19     11.32
DOS QUEBRADAS
Sewer Revenue Assumption         17.00      20.00     20.00      50.00      50.00     50.00       50.00    60.00       60.00     60.00
Tariff Water $/m3                 1.20       L.20      1.76       3.00       4.50       5.50       6.50      7.30       8.20      9.20
% Annual Tariff Increase                     l).00    46.67      70.45      50.00     22.22       18.18    12.31       12.33     12.20
ESPINAL
Sewer Revenue Assumption         0.00        0.00     30.00      30.00      30.00     40.00       50.00    60.00       60.00     60.00
Tariff Water $/m3                 1.56       L.56       2.14      2.95       4.00       5.00        6.00     7.00       8.00       9.00
56 Annual Tariff Increase                    (.00     37.18      37.85      35.59      25.00      20.00    16.67       14.29     12.50
GIRARDOT
Sewer Revenue Assumption         40.00     40.00      40.00      40.00      50.00     50.00       50.00    50.00       50.00     50.00
Tariff Water $/m3                 1.57        .85       3.00      3.50       4.00       4.75        5.40     6.49       7.46      8.30
% Annual Tariff Increase                    1,.83     62.16      16.67      14.29      18.75      13.68    20.19       14.95     11.26
IBAGUF
Sewer Revenue Assumption         36.05      40.00     40.00      40.00      50.00      50.00      50.00    60.00       60.00     60.00
Tariff Water $/m3                 1.69       2.30       2.80      3.30       4.00       4.50        5.30     5.90       6.50       7.30
7 Annual Tariff Increase                    36.09     21.74      17.86      21.21      12.50      17.78    11.32       10.17     12.31
1/ Excluding raw water sales



ANNEX 23
Page 2 of 2
- 90 -
COLOMBIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL-SIZE CITIES WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECTED AVERAGE WATER AND SEWERAGE TARIFFS
1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986
MAGANGUE
Sewer Revenue Assumption       0.00     30.00     30.00     30.00     50.00     50.00      50.00     60.00     60.00     60.00
Tariff Water $/m3              2.35      2.35      3.50      4.50      6.50       7.50      8.50      9.50     10.60     11.90
% Annual Tariff Increase                 0.00     48.94     28.57     44.44     15.38     13.33      11.76     11.58     12.26
MONTERIA
Sewer Revenue Assumption      13.96     40.00     40.00     40.00     50.00     50.00      50.00     60.00     60.00     60.00
Tariff Water $/m3              2.30      3.00      3.30      5.50      8.00      9.50      10.50     12.00     13.50     15.00
% Annual Tariff Increase                30.43     10.00     66.67     45.45     18.75      10.53     14.29     12.50     11.11
NEIVA
Sewer Revenue Assumption      43.78     30.00     30.00     50.00     50.00     50.00     50.00      60.00     60.00     60.00
Tariff Water $/m3              1.75      2.00      2.50      3.00      4.00      4.50       5.00      5.50      6.20      7.00
% Annual Tariff Increase                14.29     25.00     20.00     33.33     12.50     11.11      10.00     12.73     12.90
PAMPLONA
Sewer Revenue Assumption      30.00     30.00     30.00     30.00     40.00     40.00     40.00      60.00     60.00     60.00
Tariff Water $/m3              1.06      1.10      2.50      3.50      4.50      5.50      6.50       7.50      8.50      9.50
% Annual Tariff Increase                 3.77    127.27     40.00     28.57     22.22     18.18      15.38     13.33     11.76
PASTO
Sewer Revenue Assumption                27.00     30.00     35.00     40.00     40.00     40.00     60.00      60.00     60.00
Tariff Water $/m3              1.30      1.50      2.50      3.00      4.20      4.80       5.50      6.00      6.50      7.50
% Annual Tariff Increase                15.33     66.67     20.00     40.00     14.29     14.58       9.09      8.33     15.38
RIOHACHA
Sewer Revenue Assumption      30.00     30.00     30.00     40.00     40.00     40.00     50.00      60.00     60.00     60.00
Tariff Water $/m3              1.24      1.50      2.50      3.50      4.50      6.00       7.00      8.00      9.00     10.00
% Annual Tariff Increase                20.97     66.67     40.00     28.57     33.33     16.67      14.29     12.50     11.11
RIONEGRO
Sewer Revenue Assumption      30.00     30.00     30.00     30.00     40.00     40.00      50.00     60.00     60.00     60.00
Tariff Water $/m3              1.09      1.09      1.49      2.50      3.50      5.00       6.00      7.00      8.00      9.00
% Annual Tariff Increase                 0.00     36.70     67.79     40.00     42.86     20.00      16.67     14.29     12.50
SABANALARGA
Sewer Revenue Assumption       0.00      0.00      0.00     60.00     60.00     60.00     60.00      60.00     60.00     60.00
Tariff Water $/m3              1.86      1.90      3.00      5.00      6.00      7.80       8.50      9.50     10.70     11.90
% Annual Tariff Increase                 2.15     57.89     66.67     20.00     30.00       8.97     11.76     12.63     11.21
SINCELEJO
Sewer Revenue Assumption      20.00     20.00     40.00     40.00     50.00     50.00      50.00     60.00     60.00     60.00
Tariff Water $/m3              2.31      2.50      3.50      5.50      7.50       8.50     10.00     11.00     12.00     13.00
% Annual Tariff Increase                 8.23     40.00     57.14     36.36     13.33     17.65      10.00      9.09      8.33
SOLEDAD
Sewer Revenue Assumption      31.00     31.00     31.00     40.00     40.00     50.00      50.00     60.00     60.00     60.00
Tariff Water $/m3              2.42      2.42      3.90      5.50      7.50      8.50       9.50     10.50     11.50     12.50
% Annual Tariff Increase                 0.00     61.16     14.03     36.36     13.33     11.76      10.53      9.52      8.70
TUMACO
Sewer Revenue Assumption       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     60.00      60.00     60.00     60.00     60.00
Tariff Water $/m3              1.97      1.97      2.50      3.50      4.50       5.80      6.40      7.00      7.80      8.80
% Annual Tariff Increase                 0.00     26.90     40.00     28.57     28.89      10.34      9.38     11.43     12.82
VALLEDLTPAR
Sewer Revenue Assumption                40.00     40.00     40.00     50.00     50.00     50.00      60.00     60.00     60.00
Tariff Water $/m3              1.61      2.00      3.00      4.00      5.00      6.00       6.70      7.00      7.80      8.70
% Annual Tariff Increase                24.22     50.00     33.33     25.00     20.00      11.67      4.48     11.43     11.54
NOTE: Sewerage revenue assumptions are expressed as a percentage to be charged on water consumption billed.



- 91 -
ANNEX 24
INCREiENTAL RATES OF RETURN (%)
Water Supply                   Water Supply & Sewerage
Using 1978 Tariffs       Using      Using 1978 Tariffs        Using
Constant :In Real    Projected    Constant in Real         Projected
City               Terms              Tariffs          Terms               T'ariffs
Cartagena              17                 15               19                  17
Ibague                 14                 16               12                  16
Pasto                   2                  7               NA                  NA
Neiva                   9                 13                7                   15
Monteria                5                 14                3                  12
Sincelejo              (4)                 8               (2)                 12
Soledad                6                  16                6                  18
Riohacha                5                 22               (1)                 11
Girardot                4                  8               NA                  NA
Copacabana              1                  9               (1)                  9
Rio Negro              (3)                 6               NA                  NA
Dos Quebradas          2                  18               (3)                 14
Aguachica               1                  5               NA                  NA
Calarca                 7                 12              NA                   NA
Magangue                1                 12               (2)                  11
Codazzi                 4                 12              NA                   NA
Pamplona               (1)                 9              NA                   NA
Chiquinquira            2                  7              NA                   NA
Espinal                 3                  9                2                  11
a/   No taxes are included.
b/   Secondary networks and house connections costs to be recuperated from the
users were not included as cost:s nor as benefits.
c/   Costs of complementary works to extend networks after 1983, and not to
be recuperated through fixed charges are included.
d/   Revenues from connection fees (additional to the cost of connecticins)
were included as benefits.



COLQMRIA
THIRD MEDIUM AND SMALL-SIZE CITIES WATER & SEWERAGE PROJECT
AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COSTS AND TARIFFS BY CITY
Long Run Average Incremental Cost at 1978 Prices                     Average Tariff 1978
(11% Discount Rate)
Water and                                             Water and
Water                Sewerage         Sewerage             Water            Sewerage         Sewerage
CITY                        Col$/m3            Col$/m3 equiv.  Col$/m3 equiv.           Col$/m3       Col$/m3 equiv.  Col$/m3 equiv.
Cartagena                    3.90                    0.99              4.89               5.68            2.27             7.95
Ibague                       1.07                    1.83              2.90               2.30            0.92             3.22
Valledupar                    NA                     1.97               NA                1.90            0.76             2.66
Pasto                        4.06                     NA                NA                1.60            0.43             2.03
Neiva                        2.09                    1.30              3.39               1.90            0.57             2.47
Monteria                     4.18                    4.14              8.32               3.00            1.20             4.20
Sincelejo                      --                      -                 --               2.30            0.46             2.76
Soledad                      3.18                   1.89               5.07               2.42            0.75             3.17
Riohacha                     2.01                   4.30              6.31                1.50            0.45             1.95
Girardot                     1.48                    NA                NA                 1.85            0.74             2.59
Cartago                       NA                    3.48                NA                          --                       --
Copacabana                   2.54                   1.37               3.91               0.88            0.35             1.23
Rio Negro                    5.36                    NA                NA                 1.09            0.33             2.42
Dos Quebradas                1.98                   2.66              4.64                1.20            0.24             2.44
Aguachica                    6.44                    NA                NA                 1.89              --             1.89
Calarca                      1.81                    NA                NA                 1.44            0.72             2.16
Tumaco                        NA                    4.17               NA                 1.97              --             1.97
Magangue                     3.Q8                   3.25              7.23                2.35            0.70             3.05
Codazzi                      2.45                    NA                NA                 1.32              --             1.32
Pamplona                     4.13                    NA                NA                 1.10            0.33             1.43
Chiquinquira                 5.33                    NA                NA                 1.67            0.50             2.17
Sabanalarga                   NA                                       NA                 1.90              --             1.90
Espinal                      3.93                   1.82              5.75                1.56              --             1.56
(a)  Costs to be recuperated through fixed charges are not included in the estimate of the long-run average incremental
costs.
(b)  Secondary networks and house connections to be built by urban developers and paid by consumers are not included,
1>n



- 93 -                      ANNEX 26
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.   Sector Reports and Stucies by Others
A-1  Information on the Water Supply and Sewerage Sector (INSFOPAL)
A-2  Existing Situation of Water Supply and Sewerage Services
in Colombia (INSFOPAL)
A-3 Information on Water Related Diseases in Colombia (PAHO/WHO)
A-4 Decrees Nos. 2804/75 and 1157/76 (Government of Colombia)
B.   Project Related Reports and Studies by Others
B-1 Feasibility Studies for the 23 Subprojects (23 volumes) (INSFOPAL)
B-2 Financial Projections for the 23 Cities and 7 EMPOS (INSFOPAL)
B-3  INSFOPAL's Financial Reports, in five volumes (INSFOPAL)
B-4 Impact of the Project on the Urban Poverty Group, including
a Map with their Location in each City (INSFOPAL)
B-5  Manual of Procedures for the Diagnosis of the EMPOS (INSFOPAL)
C.   Documents Prepared by Bank Staff
C-1 Existing Water Supply and Waste Disposal Systems in the
23 Project Cities
C-2 Financial Projections for Appraisal Estimates






D   | ! il   t I        <\Zr    ~~~~~~P A C / f /C    O C E5 A N      
q~~~~~~~~~~~i A                                                   _4 f  *F  B
20  I  m                                           



