Document of
F1LE C PX                          The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1925a-ECT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
Februarv 8, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                US$2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar                                          LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
Until February 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                US$1.70
1 US Dollar                                          LE 0.59
From February to May 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                US$1.56
1 US Dollar                                          LE 0.64
From May 21, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                US$1.47
1 US Dollar                                          LE 0.68
From December 1, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                IJS$1.43
1 US Dollar                                          LE 0.70
ABBREVIATIONS
M & LT   -   Medium and Long Term
MOE      -   Ministry of Education
MOHE     -   Ministry of Higher Education
MOIIR    -   Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources
MOHAR    -   Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of
US$25 million on standard. IDA terms to help finance a part of the foreign
exchange costs of an education project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Report on the Arab Republic of Egypt (No. 870a-EGT),
dated January 5, 1976, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A
basic economic mission visited Egypt in May/Junt 1976 and its report is
under preparation. An updating'mission visited Egypt in October 1976; the
findings of both missions are incorporated in this report. A further mission
was in Egypt in late January to review the most recent economic developments.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        From 1960 to 1966 Egypt experienced a high rate of growth (around
6 percent a year in real terms) under a system of fairly rigid centralized
planning and control. This system came under increasing pressure in the
second half of the decade following a combination of bad harvests and in-
creased defense expenditures (particularly as a result of the civil war in
Yemen). The situation deteriorated further after the war of 1967, with the
loss of the Sinai oil fields, the closure of the Suez Canal, the abandonment
of the Canal cities and the cost of resettling'their population (of about a
million), and the virtual cessation of Western economic assistance. With the
military confrontation in the Middle East continuing, Egypt further increased
its defense spending at the expense both of other types of consumption and
of its development program. Thus, in 1973 the-economic picture was one of
rigorously curtailed private consumption and inadequate investment, with a
deteriorating capital stock of both infrastructure and productive facilities.
The growth of the GDP in 1967-73 averaged only 3.5 percent a year in real
terms.
4.        The changed political situation after October 1973 laid the ground-
work for a new "open-door" policy enunciated by President Sadat and-approved
in a national referendum'in May 1974. This policy reflects a major effort to
accelerate economic development through modernization and by changing Egypt's
largely publicly owned and centrally control'led economy to a more market-
oriented one.   Specifically, the pollcy envisaged decentralization of
decision-making in state-owned enterprises, liberalization of the private
This documen! hat e restrict-M distinbut.ion and may he '_sad by recipients only in the performar-
of their official du:ies. Its contents razy not alherwise be disclosed without World Bank nuthoiiuti-on.



-2-
sector, incentives to stimulate and encourage private foreign investment and
expanded economic cooperation with Arab countries. Since 1974 Egypt has
initiated a number of steps in furtherance of these principles, which are ex-
pected to lead to a significant restructuring of the economy. In particular,
steps have been taken to remove some of the heavy restrictions on private
business activities, to decentralize public enterprise management, to encourage
foreign private investment, to expand foreign exchange transactions outside
the official rate, and to loosen many of the restraints on banking activities.
5.        The provision of substantial,inflows of external assistance by both
Arab countries and Western aid donors and institutions have eased some of the
problems of the Egyptian economy in making the transition. However, major
structural difficulties remain; these are largely a result of the continuing
tension in the region and the diversion of resources away from investment over
a long period. These structural difficulties are also linked to the major
immediate weaknesses of the economy, which may be identified as the large
deficit in the balance of payments, the low level of government savings, and
low efficiency and capacity utilization in the public sector enterprises.
6.        The present government was formed in November 1976 following elec-
tions to the People's Assembly, which were the first in which a choice of
candidates representing diverse political views was offered to the voters.
The Cabinet has been strengthened on the economic side, and a Deputy Prime
Minister for economic and financial affairs has been appointed to coordinate
economic policy-making. Moreover, President Sadat has directed that economic
questions should be in the forefront of the new Cabinet's tasks.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        National Income, Investment and Growth.    GDP growth in real terms
increased from less than 3 percent in 1973 to about 6 percent in 1974 and an
estimated 10.9 percent in 1975 1/; the rise is attributed largely to recovery
of industrial activity (as aid-financed inputs increasingly became available),
increased construction (particularly in the Canal Zone) and growth of trade
and services. In 1974, the largest gaiis were experienced in industry and
petroleum (13 percent), construction (11 percent) and services (9 percent).
Agricultural output grew by about 3 per.:ent, largely as a result of favorable
weather. The high rate of growth for 1975 estimated by the Ministry of Plan-
ning is in part due to the gains to the economy 'accruing from the recovery
of the Sinai oil fields (November 1975) and the reopening of the Suez Canal
(June 1975). If their effect on growth of the gross domestic product is
excluded, the overall growth rate is estimated (by the Ministry of Planning)
at 9.2 percent. Preliminary production data for 1976 indicates that the
economy continued to expand. The rate of growth likely to have been achieved
(6-7 percent), however, reflects capacity constraints which were increasingly
experienced in major sectors.
1/   Ministry of Planning; these estimates are, however, likely to be on
the high side and are currently being revised.



- 3 -
8.        Egypt was able to sustain a higher level of investment during 1974
and 1975, largely as a result of generous external assistance from Arab coun-
tries. Gross fixed investment increased from $1,169 million in 1973 (which
was significantly below the 1965/66 level in real terms), to $1,638 million
in 1974 and to a preliminary estimate of $2,406 million in 1975 (current
1976 prices). There was also considerable replenishment of stocks, which had
been drawn down in the pre-October 1973 period. During 1976, as a result of
shortages of both domestic and foreign resources, only the first tranche
($2,130 million) of the proposed investi)ent program of $3,072 million is
expected to be implemented.
9.        Public Finance.   Because of the preponderance of the public sector
in Egypt, the bulk of the country's domestic financial resources for develop-
ment are mobilized through the state budget and'public sector corporations.
Considerable efforts have been made in the past to increase such resources,
largely by way of taxation. Average tax revenues were 18 percent of GNP
during 1973/74, and are estimated to have increased further to 20 percent of
GNP during 1975. Public enterprises (although hampered by Government-imposed
pricing policies) and social insurance and pension funds also mobilize sub-
stantial resources; these were estimated at 6 percent and 5 percent of GNP,
respectively, in 1975.. Total public resources reached 35 percent of GNP
in 1975, a major effort for a country of Egypt's low per capita income.
10.       The high level of Government current expenditures, however, absorbed
most of these resources.   This was almost entirely due to the level of defense
expenditures, and, more recently, to the growth of subsidies, which increased
from $481 million (about 5,percent of GNP) in 1973 to $1,576 million (about 13
percent of GNP) in 1975, as the Government endeavored to protect domestic con-
sumers from the sharp increases in the import prices of foodstuffs and other
essential commodities. While exact data on defense spending are not available
(since a large portion is channelled through a separate account--the Emergency
Fund) it appears that the defense burden on the budget eased over this period.
While increasing moderately in absolute terms--from $1,100 million in 1973 to
$1,220 million in 1976--budgeted defense spending declined, as a proportion
of total current expenditures, from aboiut 39 percent in 1973 to about 25 per-
cent in 1976. Expenditures on economic and social services provided by the
Government (education, health, etc.) as well as other general expenditures
have risen at approximately the same rate of GNP.
11.       With increased current spending, public savings declined between
1973 and 1975--from 4 percent of GNP in 1973 to less than 1 percent of GNP
in 1975. The revised 1976 budget, however, reflects the Government's in-
tention to increase public sector savings through both increases in revenues
(including increases in the customs duty tax - see para 16) and cuts in
expenditure. As of May 1, 1976, a number of subsidies were abolished at a
savings of $90 million at an annual rate. Declines in international prices
will alsb help cut the subsidy bill in 1976, although it is still likely to
be around $1,470 million or about 11 percent of GNP.



-4-
12.       The squeeze in public savings has resulted in increased government
borrowing from the banking system. Mfoney and quasi-money increased by 29
percent in 1974 and 20 percent in 1975--substantially in excess of increases
in domestic output. As a result inflation has continued at a high rate. The
official consumer price index estimates price increases of around 10 percent
in 1974 and 1975, but actual inflation rates were probably higher.
13.       The Balance of Payments.   Despite an increase in the value of com-
modity exports by 56 percent between 1973 and 1975 (largely as a result of
improved international ptices) export earnings fell well short of imports.
Indeed, the country's import bill almost tripled in this period as a result
of increases in quantities imported, coupled with soaring food and other
prices. Egypt's export receipts were influenced by declines in the physical
production of certain field crops (particularly cotton) due to a shift towards
more profitable cash crops (fruits, vegetables, clover) and increased domestic
demand for exportable products. As a result, the quantities of some important
exports, particularly cotton, declined.
14.       The imbalance in Egypt's trade was compensated to some extent by
fast-growing earnings from services and from workers' remittances. Never-
theless, the overall deficit on the trade and services account reached record
levels, increasing from $654 million in 1973 to $1,632 million in 1974 and
$2,480 million in 1975.
15.       Developments during the first half of 1976 suggest that the external
deficit may have been more manageable ir. that year. Exports are projected to
increase by about 28 percent, while impcrts are expected to show a modest fall,
since in the first six months of 1976, imports were running at about 70 percent
of their level in the corresponding period of 1975. In large part, this de-
cline was due to a slowdown in stock-building and a decision to abandon the
second tranche of the 1976 investment program and restrict imports of capital
goods. Thus while there were some reductions in imports of consumer goods
and intermediates as well, a smaller deficit may have been purchased at least
partly at the cost of Egypt's future grc.wth.
16.       Recent Policy Actions.   Beginning in 1976, the Government, in close
consultation with the Bank and the IMF, began to undertake a series of policy
actions aimed at making more effective tuse of foreign resources, curbing ex-
cess consumption, and improving allocative efficiency. Thus (i) the parallel
exchange market was widened to encompass almost 15 percent of convertible cur-
rency imports (excluding "supply" or mass consumption commodities); (ii) the
parallel market rate itself was further depreciated to about 56 percent of
the official rate; (iii) parallel market imports were valued for customs
duties at the parallel market exchange rate (a measure equivalent to an in-
crease of about 80 percent in the tariff on applicable imports); (iv) ceilings
on interest rates were removed and interest rates increased; and (v) the
"general organizations" that exercised rigid control over public industrial
enterprises were dissolved and replaced by "Higher Councils", which permit
somewhat more initiative to the individual enterprises.



-5-
Development Problems and Prospects
17.       Egypt's rapidly growing population, widespread poverty and dilapi-
dated infrastructure require the generation of more resources for investment
and a more rigorous determination of priorities of projects into which they
are channelled. In turn, this implies a greater restraint on the growth of
consumption, the removal of constraints created by inadequate infrastructure
(particulary ports, power, transport, and telecommunications), and a greater
emphasis on quick yielding projects. In more concrete terms, this will mean
curtailing budgetary subsidies; a more active use of prices (including the
price of foreign exchange) as indicators of relative scarcities; more emphasis
on completing ongoing projebts than on starting new ones; a streamlining of
bureaucratic processes; a larger role for the agricultural sector (and within
agriculture, a greater emphasis on the "old" lands as opposed to further re-
clamation projects); a vigorous move towards increasing industry's efficiency
and making it more export-oriented and employment-generating (which would
involve using existing industrial capacity more fully, paying more attention
to considerations of quality and encouraging small-scale industry); a strength-
ened program to curb the growth of population and the articulation of urban
and rural strategies which would decentralize the growth of the urban popula-
tion away from Cairo and Alexandria, and create more productive opportunities
in smaller towns and the rural areas. It is expected that these issues will
be addressed in the framework of a medium-term plan which is expected to be
approved by the Government very shortly.
18.       Over the long-run, Egypt's economic potential is considerable.    The
reasons for this are in brief: (i) the country has a large domestic market, a
proficient population, low wages, varied raw materials, and a key geographical
location, which makes it a natural base for industries that wish to supply the
growing regional market; (ii) Suez Canal revenues are estimated to continue to
rise gradually until the Canal's expansion program is completed in about 1979.
There is likely to be a substantial increase in revenues starting in 1980
resulting from the Canal's increased capacity; (iii) Egypt's improved pro-
spects for oil production, which is put (by the oil companies) at one million
barrels a day by 1980-82 exceeding substantially domestic requirements; (iv)
considerably increased earnings from tourism which reached an estimated $332
million in 1975; (v) the possibility of using agricultural land more intensely
with greater emphasis on high-value crops; and (vi) an increasing flow of
remittances ($546 million in 1975) from Egyptians working in the richer Arab
countries of the region.
19.       However, realizing the long-term potential hinges upon a number of
complex factors, some of which are not within Egypt's control. The most im-
portant of these is a definite movement towards an equitable and definitive
peace settlement in the Middle East. Moreover, to achieve its long-term
potential, Egypt requires the transfer of large amounts of capital from
abroad; this, in turn, must be preceded by a considerable amount of work on
preparing a suitable portfolio of projects for the consideration of potential
investors (whether private or official). And finally, it requires fundamental
changes in economic policies and institutions. Hence, it will probably take
5-10 years to achieve a significant restructuring of the economy.



-6-
External Assistance
20.       Egypt obtained substantial amounts of external aid until the mid-
1960s. Thereafter, new commitments of Western assistance practically ceased;
and the gross inflow of medium- and long-term capital fell by nearly 50 per-
cent immediately after the 1967 war. Although aid levels gradually rose
again, net inflows from Western countries averaged only $10-12 million
annually in medium- and long-term capital over the five-year period FY1968-72;
in 1973 amortization payments were some $7 million greater than disbursements.
During the period 1968-1973, non-military aid from Eastern countries, esti-
mated to have been in excess of $1,200 million, financed the bulk of Egypt's
development.
21.       Since 1973 the substantial deficits on the goods and services ac-
count have been financed primarily by official Arab grants, loans and deposits
with the Central Bank of Egypt (see Annex I, page 4). Western medium- and
long-term (M&LT) capital assistance was restored after October 1973. However,
because of the slow disbursements inherent in the aid process, and the heavy
repayments due on past loans even through 1973, net M&LT transfers from OECD
countries to Egypt have not been very large. The aid commitments from the
OECD countries have, however, led to a strong aid pipeline, and it is esti-
mated that there have been substantial inflows in 1976 (about $480 million)
which should continue in 1977.
22.       As mentioned earlier, the deficit on goods and services increased
from $654 million in 1973 to $1.63 billion in 1974 and reached $2.48 billion
in 1975.  This deficit was financed in 1974 through unrequited transfers
($1,306 million, of which $1,264 millior was Arab governmental grants), short-
term foreign borrowing or use of banking facilities ($585 million, net) and
drawdown of reserves. The medium- and long-term capital account (including
suppliers' credits) showed a deficit in 1974 of $159 million, reflecting the
burden of repaying the outstanding foreign debt and the slow disbursement on
new commitments.
23.       During 1975, Egypt received unrequited transfers of $1,029 million
(of which $988 million were official Arab grants). Additional Arab assistance
took the form of loans to and deposits [n the Central Bank of Egypt ($1,580
million). Net M&LT capital inflows in 1975 (including suppliers' credits)
amounted to $378 million largely as a re~sult of an Iranian cash loan of $320
million. Other significant monetary movements involved the reduction of in-
debtedness on the bilateral accounts (by $241 million) and reduction of short-
term indebtedness ($264 million, net).
24.       The outlook for 1976 is for a substantial reduction in the deficit
on goods and services largely as a resuLt of reduced imports as well as in-
creased receipts from the petroleum sector and the Suez Canal. However, the
absolute level of the deficit will still be high--it is currently projected
at about $1.8 billion. Commitments of aid in 1976 include grants of $300
million from Saudi Arabia and $143 million from Arab countries under the
Khartoum agreement, $150 million on concessionary terms from the United Arab
Emirates (UAE) and Qatar and $300 million from Kuwait, UAE and Qatar as a



-7-
deposit in the Central Bank. In addition a $2.0 billion fund--the Gulf Asso-
ciation for Economic Development in Egypt--has been created by Saudi Arabia,
Kuwait, UAE and Qatar to participate in the financing of Egypt's development
program. During 1976 this fund committed a $250 million cash loan to Egypt
and also guaranteed a Euro-dollar loan of another $250 million to Egypt from a
consortium of American and European banks. Amongst western aid donors, the US
Government is currently committing about $700 million of project and commodity
aid per annum (in addition to about $200 million of food assistance under US
Law PL 480). Aid from the other OECD countriesk especially France, Germany
and Japan is expected to remain at the increased levels of 1974/75. The
European Community is providing increasing amounts of food aid; moreover, in
January 1977 the Community signed a financial protocol with Egypt committing
over a five year period, $70 million in grants and $119 million in concessional
loans. Total disbursements of foreign aid are estimated to have reached $2,628
million in 1976, of which $575 million were grants, $300 million deposits in
the Central Bank, and $1,753 million medium- and long-term loans. With amor-
tization payments estimated at $553 million, net inflows of M&LT loans are
estimated at $1,200 million.
25.       Consultative Group.   In July 1976, Egypt requested the Bank to set
up a Consultative Group comprising a number of Qil-producing Arab countries,
major western countries (including Japan) and Iran. Given the favorable
responses received from prospective members of the Group, an introductory
meeting (focussing on financing requirements for 1977) is planned to be
held in April 1977.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
26.       Egypt's non-military medium and long-term debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at December 31, 1975 was estimated at $5,101 million, which was almost
double the amount at end-1974 ($2,760 million). During the first nine months
of 1976 the debt rose to $5,616 million. Of this, M&LT loans amounted to
$2,989 million (of which $801 million in clearing currencies), M&LT deposits
in the Central Bank to $1,942 million, suppliers' credits to $685 million
(of which $74 million in clearing currencies). Major creditors were Saudi
Arabia, Kuwait, USSR, USA, Abu Dhabi and Iran. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about
2.8 percent of the total. Debt service on medium- and long-term debt was es-
timated to amount to $680 million in 1975, giving a debt service ratio of 24
percent. No reliable estimates of military debt are available; Egypt is still
making efforts to obtain rescheduling oF service payments on such debt.
27.       While the bulk of external assistance to Egypt was obtained on
highly concessional terms (the grant element of total commitments during
1975 is estimated at 42 percent), the continued high level of short-term
indebtedness continued to be a cause of serious concern. Commercial bankers
credit facilities outstanding (including undisbursed) amounted to $2,094 mil-
lion at the end of September, 1976 of which $1,381 million were disbursed.
The liquidity requirements of this type of indebtedness created severe
problems for Egypt and arrears in repayments of up to 60 days were reported
during the latter half of 1976.



-8-
28.       The liquidity problems arising from Egypt's short-term indebtedness
can only be solved through either "funding" this debt on a long term basis,
or by gradually reducing it over time. However, further measures will be
required to assure a permanent improvement and firm establishment of Egypt's
creditworthiness. These include:
(i) further control over consumption expenditures (primarily
through rationalization of consumption subsidies) and
measures to increase domestic savings, while protecting
lower income groups through approptiate pricing, fiscal,
and other policies;
(ii) promotion of efficient resource allocation through further
widening the parallel foreign exchange market and pursuing
price policies that would better reflect economic scarcities;
(iii) continued reduction in the use of short-term lending facili-
ties, an improvement in the time-profile of external debt,
and implementation of a debt management program;
(iv) the preparation of a medium-term plan that would provide a
rational framework for investment decisions and policies
and for the provision of external development assistance.
29.       The Government's recent policy actions (discussed in paragraph 16
above) have initiated the process of structural adjustments required by
Egypt's economic situation and international envirohment.    The situation
however requires continuing review and further action. At the Government's
request, the Bank has arranged to review developments in the economy by eco-
nomic missions three or four times a year.
30.       If progress towards curbing both consumption expenditures and
imports is maintained and the country's export earnings potential realized,
Egypt's foreign capital inflow requirements are estimated at about $2.25
billion per annum for the remainder of the decade. This is expected to be
financed by M&LT capital assistance (including grants) of about $1.95 billion
per annum, private capital inflows ($100 million in 1977 rising to about $250
million in 1980) and suppliers' credits. The capital inflows expected are
large--but if they are forthcoming on the terms expected, Egypt would have
the debt servicing capacity to borrow the amounts envisaged, including a
limited amount on harder terms. The burden of servicing M1LT debt, as a
percentage of total foreign exchange earnings, is expected to decline from
24 percent in 1975 to about 22 percent in 1976 and an estimated 17 percent
in 1980. In these circumstances Egypt riay be considered creditworthy for
a limited amount of Bank lending.



-9-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
31.       The proposed credit would be the World Bank's twenty third 1/ lending
operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970
to $624.5 million. Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of December 31, 1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
32.       The principal objective of the Bank/IDA lending program in Egypt
is to provide foreign exchange in support of its development program through
lending for (i) increasing utilization of available productive capacity, (ii)
projects which would increase production and foreign exchange earnings or sub-
stitute for imports, particularly in the key industrial and agricultural sec-
tors, (iii) projects aimed at rehabilitation and expanding infrastructure
necessary to facilitate development, and (iv) selected social sectors, namely
population and education. The impact of Bank/IDA participation in projects
has been widened by attracting additional foreign exchange required for most
of these projects from other donors. Besides the technical assistance in-
cluded under the Bank/IDA projects, the Bank is acting as Executing Agency
for a UNDP-financed National Power Sector Survey and has been asked to act
as Executing Agency for a study which will prepare a Master Plan for Water
Resources and Uses.    Work on the latter is expected to begin early this year.
The Bank has also extended limited technical assistance in April 1976 in the
preparation of a five-year development plan.
33.       The projects financed in FY75 and FY76 were in support of the stra-
tegy outlined in the preceding paragraph. Preparation of projects for future
lending is following the same line. Projects for rural electrification,
drainage of further lands in the Nile Delta and the expansion of the Suez
Canal have been appraised. A pipeline of projects for possible future lending
is also being developed, comprising additional projects in the water supply
and sewerage, education and power sectors, and in agriculture including
drainage, and industry.
34.       Bank Group disbursements will continue in 1976 to represent less
than 10 percent of Egypt's overall capital inflow requirements. The Bank/IDA
share of total external debt outstanding and disbursed was less than 1 percent
at the end of 1975. For the future, the Bank/IDA share of total external debt
outstanding and disbursed (excluding military debts) is estimated to reach
about 11 percent in 1980, of which the Bank share would be about 7 percent.
It is estimated that in 1980, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA
will represent about 3 percent of servize payments due on Egypt's external
debt.
35.       The first IFC participation aad lending, for a ceramics project, was
approved by the Executive Directors in April 1976. IFC is also discussing
several other private sector and joint venture projects.
1/   Assuming the credit for this proje:t will be considered by the Executive
Directors before the loan for the Alexandria Water Supply Project.



- 10 -
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Sector Organization and Constraints
36.       The Ministry of Education (MOE) and the Ministry of Higher Educa-
tion (MOHE) have the main responsibility for education and training. MOE is
responsible for primary, preparatory, secondary general and secondary techni-
cal education and for primary teacher training. MOHE is responsible for
the secondary technician training. The universities are fully independent.
They are governed by the Supreme Council Eor Universities which provides a
central secretariat, disseminates information and otherwise has only advisory
functions. The universities themselves are responsible for the intake of
students and faculty.
37.       While vocational training and technical education is provided by
MOE and MOHE, other ministries such as Agriculture, Health, Housing and
Reconstruction, Industry and Mineral Resources, Manpower, and Social Affairs
have training programs also.
38.       As explained above (para. 18), the potential of Egypt lies in the
planned utilization of its natural and human resources, in the rehabilitation,
renovation and further development of its infrastructural base, in exploiting
its industrial possibilities, mineral resources and related industries, as
well as in maximum development of its agricultural potential through extensive
irrigation works and further land reclamation. Although Egypt is one of the
more developed countries in the Middle East, the present labor force is not
well equipped to implement these growth objectives. Nearly 61 percent of the
total labor force is illiterate and another 25 percent is only able to read
and write. In the construction sector, less than 10 percent of the labor
force is considered to be adequately qualified. This situation contrasts
with the oversupply of university-trained staff in many specializations.
Present Government policy automatically assures university graduates jobs
in the public sector regardless of its needs. This not only contributes to
considerable overstaffing and undetemplayment of persons with higher educa-
tion, but at the same time acts indirectily as a disincentive against forms of
training which would provide middle-level technical, commercial and managerial
staff although there is a pressing need for them in many sectors of the
economy.
Formal Education System
39.       Education is compulsory for tne primary level with entry allowed
within the 6-8 years age range. The sy'-tem has a four-tiered structure:
(i) Primary education       -  Grades 1-6;
(ii) Preparatory education   -  Grades 7-9;
(iii) Secondary education     -  Grades 10-12;
(iv) Higher education        -  Technician training, Grades 13-14
Higher Technical Institutes, 4-5 year
courses
Universities, 4-6 year courses



40.       Gross enrollment in primary education amounts to 74 percent and in
preparatory education to 48 percent of the respective age groups. Major defi-
ciencies in their education cycles are high repeater rates, lack of adequate
buildings, equipment, textbooks and teaching materials, lack of qualified
teachers and overemphasis on literary subjects. At the secondary level,
which includes general education, technical education and primary teachers'
training, the enrollment of the relevant age groups is 31 percent. The
secondary general education concentrates on literature and the sciences,
secondary technical education is being provided in separate industrial,
agricultural and commercial schools. Although curricula in secondary tech-
nical schools are heavily oriented toward craft rather than technician
training, practical training is hampered by the lack of suitable equipment.
As a result, graduates from these schools frequently face initial employment
problems as they do not have sufficient practical skills to enter the labor
force as skilled workers and their chances of proceeding to higher education
are limited. In 1975, some 360,000 students foliowed secondary general
education and some 380,000 students secondary technical education.
41.       Primary teacher training is conducted in 64 colleges, many of which
are in poor condition and lacking in modern equipment and teaching materials.
Curricula are too academically oriented. During recent years enrollment
increased at an annual average of only 2.6 percent, and it is expected that
by 1981 there will be a shortfall of about 7,800 primary teachers. Teacher
training for preparatory and general secondary schools is being provided
either in full four-year post secondary teacher training courses or in a
one-year post-graduate course at education facilities attached to universi-
ties. An increased supply of teachers of practical subjects will be
necessary as more time is devoted to such subjects in the preparatory and
secondary school curricula. Technical teachers are trained in mechanical,
electrical, electronics, automotive and fine mechanics, and architectural
engineering technologies at two technical teacher training institutes, and
through pre-service and in-service pedagogical training for those requiring
upgrading. The two technical teacher training institutes lack adequate
equipment to effectively implement the programs.
42.       Higher education comprises three types of institutions:    universi-
ties, higher technical institutes and technician training institutes, almost
all of which are overcrowded and lack adequate resources. Enrollment expan-
sion in the universities has been very rapid in recent years and reached about
300-,000 in 1974. With the increase in economic activity in the past two
years, enrollments in higher technical institutes and technician training
institutes have also been expanding rapidly and reached almost 50,000 and
30,000, respectively, in 1974, including many part-time students.
Other Education and Training
43.       Agricultural education and training is administered mainly by the
Ministry of Agriculture. The minimal supply in farmer training programs con-
trasts sharply with the oversupply of agricultural graduates and veterinarians
from the universities. Vocational skills training for the industrial and



- 12 -
construction trades are the responsibilities of the Ministries of Industry and
Itineral Resources (MOIMR) and of Housing and Reconstruction (MOHAR). MOIMR
has substantial experience in the training field, and its schools offer a
combination of formal training and apprenticeship. The MOIMR training centers
are generally well-designed but much of the equipment needs replacement and
some additional equipment is required if the centers are to keep abreast of
current industrial practice. The existing 28 centers, many of which are
operated in two shifts, are able to accept some 5,000 new apprentices per
year. MOIMR's vocational training centers are also providing short
"upgrading" and "refresher" courses for those already in employment.
44.       MOHAR, on the other hand, has much less experience in the training
field. It is, however, faced with an urgent need to carry out construction
throughout the country on an unprecedented scale. The formal apprentice-
ship method is not common in the building trades, its place being taken by
short-term periods of training either "on-the-job" or in the Ministry's four
building trade centers. To help meet current demands the Ministry is also
providing training in secondary technical schools which however, are poorly
equipped. Moreover, to increase the immediate output, the Ministry has
limited the length of its courses to three months. The Ministry is currently
purchasing or planning to purchase a number of existing buildings for conver-
sion to training centers. Once more accommodations become available, M4OHAR
will also be able to provide refresher courses for those already employed.
45.       Literacy training has had little success in Egypt.    Although a
Council for Adult Education and Literacy was established in 1972 in every
governorate, there has been little progress on the illiteracy problem. A
1970 law required all ministries, organizations, institutions, societies
and large employers to arrange and conduct literacy programs for their em-
ployees. While these efforts have met with some success in urban areas, they
have had little effect on the millions of rufal illiterates. A determined
effort to eradicate adult illiteracy could be highly expensive and, there-
fore, as an alternative the authorities propose to dry up the source of
illiterates by ensuring that all children complete primary education.
Educational Development Strategy
46.       In order to overcome some of the shortcomings, in 1971, the Gov-
ernment issued a National Work Program designed to provide a framework for
educational policy for the period 1971-80. The major goals of the program
were:
(a) to enroll all children of co?pulsory school age and to
raise the school leaving age to age 15 by 1981;
(b) to improve the quality and relevance of education. In
this context prevocational courses would be enlarged and
diversified in a number of experimental schools to re-
orient the curriculum from its present overemphasis on
literary subjects;



- 13 -
(c) to adjust education and training to better meet manpower
needs. The Government therefore intends to increase enroll-
ments in secondary industrial, agricultural and commercial
schools at an annual rate of 10 percent through 1981;
(d) to expand and improve the skilled labor force by increasing
the annual output of industrial and building trade training
centers from about 5100 and 1,800 respectively in 1976 to
8,600 and 56,000 in 1981;
(e) to improve and expand adult literacy training; and
(f) to improve and expand primary teacher training.
47.       Although not all of these goals may ultimately be achieved within
the established timeframe, they should, when fully implemented, significantly
correct the existing imbalances and improve the quality of the education
system. Moreover, Government plans to strengthen the procedures for planning
and programming of education and training activities to ensure that the
efforts of the different Ministries will be closely coordinated in the context
of the comprehensive educational development strategy. There is a need for
(i) the MOE and MOHE to coordinate their technician training programs; (ii)
the MOE and the Technological University of Helwan to coordinate their tech-
nical teacher/instructor training programs; (iii) the MOE and of Industry and
Mineral Resources to coordinate post-preparatory skilled worker training; and
(iv) for the MOE to coordinate planning of primary teacher training in the
context of decentralization of educational authority. To deal with these
and other related matters, the Government will set-up an appropriate inter-
ministerial committee under the chairmanship of the Minister of Education to
be assisted by experts provided under the project (para. 53(vii)).
Future Manpower Supply and Demand
48.       A major weakness of education planning in Egypt is the absence of
reliable estimates for the medium and long-term of future manpower supply and
demand by economic sector and specialization. It is obvious that most existing
educational and training institutions need improvement of facilities and pro-
grams to attain training standards geared to modern industrial practice. In
addition, new programs need to be developed to meet the needs of various
branches of industry. It is important therefore to determine more precisely
the need for such training programs and to obtain more reliable data on which
to plan a better coordinated education and training system. Some studies
already have started and the Government has given assurances that within two
and one half years appropriate measures will be taken to obtain detailed data
on each'sector's needs for trained personnel, both current and projected for
the next ten-year period (Section 4.02(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Expert services provided under the project (para. 53(vii)) would
assist in the collation of these data and in the translation of manpower
needs into educational targets for consideration by the inter-ministerial
committee (para. 47).



- 14 -
Education Finance
49.       Public education in Egypt is financed entirely by the Central Gov-
ernment. In 1975, total public expenditures on education amounted to $654
million, equivalent to 5.5 percent of GDP and budget estimates for 1976 in-
dicate expenditures of $783 million or 5.9 percent of GDP. The recurrent
costs of public education have increased substantially, over the last six years.
In 1970, education accounted for $333 million or 21 percent of total recur-
rent expenditures, in 1976 that amount had increased to $717 million or some
26 percent of the recurrent budget. Salaries and wages take up almost 90 per-
cent of education expenditures, leaving only about 10 percent for educational
materials and supply.
50.       Taking into account the Government's plans to increase substantially
school enrollments by 1981 (see para. 46 above), it is estimated that the an-
nual recurrent budgets of the MOE and MOHE, the universities and the training
departments of the MOIMR and MOHAR will increase from $717 million in 1976 to
$1,075 million by 1981 or at a rate of over 8.4 percent per annum in constant
prices. Although these expenditures are high, they are comparable to those of
other countries in the region and can be supported by Egypt's expected economic
growth. If, however, the increase should exceed available public resources,
some of the less important parts of the Government's education reform program
may have to be delayed. To help solve existing financial problems and in an-
ticipation of future discrepancies between resources and needs, the Government
plans to explore new sources of financing, such as directing industry, as the
chief beneficiary, to contribute towards the cost of training technicians and
skilled craftsmen. However, no specific measures have yet been taken.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
51.       The project was identified by a World Bank reconnaissance mission
which visited Egypt in November 1975. The project was iprepared by the Minis-
tries of Education, Higher Education, Housing and Reconstruction, and Indus-
try and Mineral Resources, with assistance by World Bank staff, and appraised
in April 1976. Negotiations were held in Washington from December 2 to
December 10, 1976. The Government delegation was led by Dr. Wagih Shindy,
Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Economy and Economic Cooperation
and included representatives of MOE, MOHE, MOIMR, and MOHAR. A report en-
titled "Appraisal of an Education Project in the Arab Republic of Egypt" (No.
1285-EGT), dated January 28, 1977, is being distributed separately.    The main
features of the development credit and project are summarized in Annex III.
A map showing the location of the proposed project institutions is also
attached.
The Project
52.       The objectives of the proposed project are to:



- 15 -
(i) expand, diversify, and upgrade the training of technicians
and skilled workers to meet urgent manpower needs;
(ii) assist in improving the relevance and quality of lower
and upper secondary education through provision of pilot
comprehensive schools;
(iii) increase and upgrade the training of primary teachers and
technical teachers and instructors; and
(iv) improve educational and manpower planning by initiating
studies in key areas.
53.       The project would consist of the following components:
(i) Technician Training Schools
To help meet the urgent needs for industrial technicians, the proj-
ect will provide financing of equipment and technical assistance for the con-
version of four existing three-year technical trade schools into five-year
technician training schools (grades 10-14). These schools which are under
MOE's administration, are located in industrial and agricultural areas and
will have an annual output of about 800 technicians in the new fields of food
processing and textiles and in mechanical, electrical and electronic engineer-
ing. The number of industrial enterprises in these fields in Egypt is large.
Evening classes for upgrading employed workers will also be conducted in these
schools. Curricula for most of the courses to be taught have already been
developed. To assure a proper balance of theory and practice, an average of
about one-third of the school hours will be allotted to laboratory and/or work-
shop training in all of the above programs. Additional practical experience
will be obtained in industry in a mandatory school program which includes an
average of 210 hours in a related industry during the summer vacation. To
ensure that the instructional program in the technician training schools
remain relevant to the needs of business and industry, the Government agreed
that advisory committees comprising representatives of industry, commerce and
government would be established in each school by the opening date of classes,
and that the existing follow-up system for tracing graduate placement and per-
formance would be improved and applied by the time the first class graduates
(Section 4.02(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). To prepare the
expansion of the technician training system in the future, the project in-
cludes preinvestment studies for 6 addilional schools.
(ii) Technician Training Institutes
To help further meet the urgenlt need for technicians, the project
will include buildings (construction of which is well advanced and financed by
the Government), furniture, equipment and technical assistance for two new
Technician Training Institutes (grades 13 - 14); equipment and technical assis-
tance for three existing ones, and preparation studies for another four, all
under the administration of the Ministrv of Higher Education. The institutes
to be equipped under the project are located in key economic centers and will



- 16 -
offer courses in a broad range of business and industrial technologies. Cur-
ricula for business courses are being revised or developed in close contact
with the commercial and industrial communities, those for industrial courses
with the help of advisors provided under the Project. An average of 40 per-
cent of the lessons is expected to be allocated to laboratory and workshop
activities. About 60 percent of enrollment would be in business and 40 per-
cent in industrial courses and annual output would be about 4,500 graduates
from 1980 onward. To ensure continuing relevance of the courses taught in
the institutes to the needs of commerce and industry, the Government agreed
to the same arrangements as for the Technician Training Schools above (item
(ii)), i.e. to establish advisory committees in each institute and to intro-
duce a student tracer system (Section 4.02(c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
(iii) Vocational Industrial Training Centers
To help uleet the need for skilled industrial workers, the project
would include finarcing of additional equipment and replacement of old equip-
ment to help upgrade the quality of training in ten existing centers and in
one instructor training center, and of pre-investment studies for five addi-
tional centers, all under the responsibility of MOIMR. Students, who have
completed preparatory school and are over 15 years of age, will be trained
in the air-conditioning, automotive, electrical, metal, and printing trades.
The first year of formal training, with equal time allotted to theory and
practice, will be followed during the second and third years by on-the-job
apprenticeship training in selected local industries, with additional in-
struction in theory.
(iv)   Vocational Training Centers for Construction Trades
The project would provide financing of equipment for 20 new training
centers and three instructor training centers which will train semi-skilled
construction workers required by the massive reconstruction and development
efforts planned for the Suez Canal Zone and to help meet housing demand through-
out the country. MOHAR will administer these centers. It will arrange the
purchase and construction, where necessary, of suitable buildings. Financing
for equipment and of consultancy services would also be included under the
proposed project to help develop, within the Ministry's training department,
a central data bank for the collection, processing and dissemination of in-
formation related to skilled and semi-skilled manpower needs in the construc-
tion sector, training courses, student records, and follow-up of graduates.
(v)    Comprehensive Schools and Teacher Training Colleges
One lower and two upper secondary schools will be provided with
modern instructional equipment for work.hops, science laboratories, art, tech-
nical drawing and home economics and with technical assistance to permit the
introduction of a comprehensive curriculum. All three schools as well as the
five comprehensive schools included in the pre-investment studies will serve
as pilot schools for the introduction oE curriculum reforms in four different
socio-economic regions of Egypt. In the comprehensive lower secondary school,



- 17 -
increased emphasis will be given to practical subjects. The revised curricula
for the comprehensive upper secondary schools should prepare students to con-
tinue their studies in either universities or post-secondary technical insti-
tutes or to gain employment and benefit from further training on the job. The
workshops in these schools are also expected to be utilized in the evening for
adult training. To provide for continuing evaluation of the new schools, the
Government has given assurances that, within one and one-half years of the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, a system would be developed, in
consultation with the Association, to monitor students' attitudes, backgrounds
and achievements in theoretical and practical studies while in school, and
their job placement and performance after graduation. (Sections 4.02(b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Funds for preinvestment studies for 3
Primary Teacher Training Colleges are also included.
(vi) Technical Teacher Training School
Instructional equipment for mechanical, electrical, electronics,
automotive and instrumentation courses and technical assistance would be
financed under the proposed project for the technical teacher training school
at Kobba which was established in 1975 with UNDP assistance. This school,
which also falls under MOE's administration, is one of two institutional
sources of trained technical teachers and is therefore essential to the future
technical teacher supply for the project and other planned institutions.
(vii) Educational Planning Studies
Advisory services would assist MOE in 5 key areas of educational
planning and policy:
(a)  Second-level teacher training:   This study is designed to
assess the present and projected teacher supply and demand
and the optimum training for both preparatory and secondary
school teachers.
(b)  School mapping:  The pilot schiool mapping study covering
primary, preparatory and secondary education in a governorate
to be selected by the Government would be undertaken to help
strengthen regional planning, including school location
planning capabilities..
(c)  Norms and standards for educational buildings:   The study would
be conducted of school building space and furnishing require-
ments for schools at various levels, together with construction
materials and techniques, to develop a system of national
norms and standards for schooL buildings.
(d)  Refinement of Educational Development Strategy
The advisory services would assist the inter-ministerial
committee to improve coordination of educational planning
and programming between the concerned Ministries (para. 47).



- 18 -
(e) Manpower Needs Study
The study would collate manpower needs data and translate person-
nel needs into educational targets (para. 48).
The results of these studies are important for the development of the sector
and for the planning of future investments. The government agreed that the
studies (except for the manpower needs study) would be completed and their
findings be forwarded to the Association within 18 months of the date of the
Development Credit Agreement (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Technical Assistance and Training
54.       A substantial technical assistance component is required, as the
project's institution building aspects are at least as important as the
quantitative expansion in the output of technicians and skilled workers.
In view of the large number of new courses of study and Egypt's absorptive
capacity for technical assistance, the proposed amount is considered both
appropriate and in line with similar projects in comparable countries. Under
the technical assistance program, 67 specialists would be used for a total of
24 man-years to complement the expertise available in the Ministries. Most of
these specialists would have to be obtained from abroad. In addition, about
150 selected members of the project institutions would have to be trained
outside Egypt in specialties not available there, requiring fellowships of a
total of about 65 man-years. About 13 man-years of specialist services and
all training are directly related to the physical items included in the proj-
ect (items (i) to (vi) above); 6 man-years of expert time are to assist in
the pre-investment studies (items (i), (ii), (iii), and (v) above) and another
5 man-years are in support of the educational planning studies (item (vii)
above). Specific tasks of the experts needed in connection with the project
investment items are to: (i) prepare basic equipment lists as required for
the comprehensive schools; (ii) develop curricula and equipment lists, for
the technician training institutes; (iii) train teachers in the use and main-
tenance of instructional equipment; and (iv) initiate training courses in
the industrial and building trades.
55.       The technical assistance program, because of the large number of
consultants and fellowships, will require considerable skill in its manage-
ment, in the timely recruitment of the required consultants, and in the
arrangements to be made for the placement of the various supervisory and
teaching staffs in appropriate institutions abroad. The Government intends
to make the arrangements for the various experts and fellowships in accordance
with a time schedule which corresponds to the project implementation schedule
(para. 57). In particular, the Government confirmed its intention to: (i)
award the fellowships for six teacher trainers for the comprehensive schools
sufficiently early for them to conduct a three-month intensive upgrading
course in pedagogy and in the use and maintenance of instructional equipment
for the teachers of the new comprehensive school program which is expected to
begin in October 1978; and (ii) to have the head instructors of the techni-
cian training schools and technical institutes return from their overseas






- 20 -
58.       Sites for all project institutions to be expanded have been identi-
fied, except- for a -comprehensive schoo-l- at.Tanta, and are adequate to accom-
modate- the. planned dexpansions.. Siites- for, the new- institutions 1to.obe constructed
have-.been acquired and are-adequate, except for..the.MOHAR-vocational training
centers which are! be-ing acquired-.. The Government agreed to- acquire all land
-required -foor the- project,- as-.and when -needed-,-. and to provide .satisfactory
-evidence.;on -the; availability, of this land to the: Association-.(Sction 3.06 of
d-raft Development.Cred-it.Agreement)-. The Government also.provided assurances
that -the. buildings to. be; purchased for use -as. vocational training centers
would.meet space requirements agreed'upon wi,th the.Assoc-iation (Section,3.07
of-the draft Development Credit Agreement).. -
Procurement and Disbursement
59.       Contracts for equipment would be awarded in accordance with Associa-
* tion guidelines on the basis bf international competitive bidding, except for
equipment.items .which-can on-ly'be.groupedin small packages-(under US$50,000),
items which-!must be.:compatible with- othler equipment procured under ICB.-and
items of- such specialized.nature that-ICB would not..ber-practical.  These.items
which would not exceed an aggregate total o-ff-20:percent of the total cost of
each ministry's equipment items-(or US$4.4 million.for total project),,.would
be procured-..under normal-.-government- procurement procedures, which are satisfac-
tory to the Association, and.where possible, -would include price quotations
from.at least three manufacturers.or suppliers. Because of.the small amount
of furniture in.the project, these items would-be procured under.local com-
petitive bidding. For the purpose of comparing foreign. and local bids, local
manufacturers of equipment would be allowed a margin of preference equal to
the existing rate of custom duties applicable to competing imports or 15
percent of CIF price, whichever is lower.   All civil works contracts will
be government financed and would be.awarded-under -government procedures.
60..      Disbursements would be made on the following.basis:   (i) 100 percent
of foreign.expenditures for imported, furniture and equipment purchased from
abroad; (ii-) 75 percent of the cost of furniture and equipment.manufactured
locally or-manufactured abroad but purchased locally; and (iii) 100 percent of
the foreign expenditures for fellowship3 and expatriate consultants; and (iv)
80 percent of expenditures for local consultants. Retroactive financing for
technical advisors to prepare curricula, course syllabi, equipment lists and
specifications would be provided in an amount-not to exceed US$300,000 for
expenditures after September 15, 1976.
Benefits and Risks
61.       At this important juncture in Egypt's-economic development, the
project would create the physical and institutional basis for increased
supplies of badly needed manpower trained in technical specialities for
the industrial and construction sectors.   The Government's strategy for
the forthcoming years is to increase investment and production in these two
key sectors of the economy through-private sector, joint venture.and public
sector activities. This cannot be achieved unless adequate numbers of staff



- 21 -
with practical training suited to the present and future needs of industry and
sufficient numbers of teachers are available. By providing an annual output
of 17,000 semi-skilled workers for the construction sector, and 6,400 techni-
cians and instructors, and 2,300 skilled industrial workers, the project
would thus make an important contribution towards achieving the objectives
of accelerating development in the productive sectors of the economy.
62.       Through the initiation of studies in key areas, the project would
contribute towards an improvement in educational and manpower planning. The
support for the pilot comprehensive schools would provide the basis for an
increase in relevance and quality of preparatory and secondary education.
The pre-investment studies would prepare improvements in the quality of the
formal education system and further expansions of the technical and vocational
training systems.
63.       The timely provision of technical asssistance is crucial for suc-
cessful project implementation. If such assistance is inadequate or late
in being obtained, project implementation is likely to suffer delays with
resulting price increases for furniture and equipment in excess of present
contingency allowances. Since the proposed project would be the first with
which the project implementation units of the various ministries would be
associated, some delays in project implementation may occur. Consequently,
a more than average amount of supervision by the Association may be required.
In addition, there is some risk that the Government will have difficulty in
implementir:g some of the major policy objectives and improvements in planning
which are not directly project related but which may have an indirect adverse
effect on project implementation. In view of the considerable benefits,
however, the risk inherent in a project of this kind is acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMfENIS AND AUTHORTTY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Arab Republic
of Egypt and the Associaticn, the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of
the Resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
65.       Features of special interest of the draft Development Credit
Agreement are listed 'n Section III of Annex IV.
-66.      I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67..      I recommend- that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C..



1I*'I-iof L Pages
TAULfE I'
EGYPT               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA ITHOU KM2 1
EGYPT                               OFFERENCE fGIJT(IPS ll9711
TOTAL      1001.4                                      "CST RFCEtPT
AGRIC.       28.5                       1960      I9O   FSFIMATE           PHILIPPINES    t IRRfy        SPAIN'
GNP PER CAPITA IUSS)                      130.0      210.0       310.0               230.0      4eo.0      1560.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
__________________ ___________
POPULATION (YIO-YR. MILLICNI             25.8       33.7        37.1               36.9        35.7        I3.S
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        26.0        33.0        37.0              123.0        46.0        67.0
PFR So. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND            ..      1145.0     1250.0               279.0       67.0        97.0
VtTAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH QATE PER THOUSANn         b44 5       1h2.1       37.8               44.2        4).6        21.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSANO          20.7        t7.0       1k.0               12.2        14.,         PA.
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOU)        IC9.C       116.0       T16  A               04.0          J       27.4
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT B IPYT       .. 4   1j4f.9                 52A4         5       5.        55.4        7'1).
GROSS RFPROI1UCTIAN RATr                2.8        3.0         3.0                3.1     !    .6 /ae     I . 4
POPULATIrN GROWTH RATE 1)1
TOTAL                                  2.4         2.6         2.2                t.0         . S.I
URBAN                                   6.0        3.6         3.6                4.0         4.2         1-A
URBAN POPULATICN IS OF TOTAL)            30P.0       J?2.1      44.3                27.6       31.-
AGE STRUCTIURE IPERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        4?.0 a      44.0         4. 5.6                        41 .        'T7.4
15 TO 64 YEARS                        S4.C a      57.0          ..               51.6        9.      5    .S
65 YEARS ANo nvER                       3.3        4.           5. 2.8                        4.3    '     .7
AGE OFPFNDENCY RATIO                      C.9 a      0.9                            0.9         J. 3
FCONOMIC DFPFFNENCY RATIO                 1.8         1.1         ..                1.5         1.1 tL      '
FAMILY PLANNI1NG
ACCEPTORS [CUMULATIVE, THOU)             ..      48F.0      1239.O              354. J
USERS (T OF MARRIFn WPF.NI               ..         ..        21.1                 2.0
FMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCF ITHrUSANDI          ?ROO.0      8?00.0 4A     930           121010.0    14$0J).0/   I VC.d
LABOR FORCF 1IN AGRICULTURF (Xi          57.0       53.0Z       470L                550.o L    h7.0        74.?
UNEMPLOYED It OF LABOr FORCE)             5.0         3.0        ?0                 7. /.            a        I /a
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATF INCOME RBC0 BY-
HIGHFST   5S OF HOUSEHOLDS             19.2         ..          ..                 ..        3R.Y          *
HIGHEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS             48.4          ..          ..                 ..        eo.6
LOWEST   20S OF HOUSFHOLtS              4.6         ..          ..                 ..         !.9
LOWEST   402 OF HOUSEHOLCS             14.1         ..          ..                  .'
riSTR IBUTTON nO LANn nwkFRSHIP
______________________________
2 OWNFn BY TOP 102 OF OWNFPS               ..         ..          ..                 ..        53.u
S OWNED BY SMALLEST 101 OWNERS             ..         ..          ..                            O 0
HFALTH AND NuTRITION
POPULATICN PER PHYSICIAN               2500.0     1910.0      FtL 20O ?  _.                  '7'.). 142.O
POPULATION PEF NURSING PERSON          2730.C     164C.C      1520. O                ..      iRJ. 3 1    1413-.)
POPULATION PEF HOSPITAL RFD            500.C a     460.0       469.0              RS3         4SJ.        22.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES Is nF RFOUIREMENTSI          95.0        94.0       10.                 1W.0       '1.3       '0 '.))
PROTEIN IGRAMS PFR DAY)               66.C        66.0        69.0d              41.0        7t.J        al.o
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          17.0        16.0          ..               22.)        22. ) A.   43
DEATH RATF I/THOIu AGFS 1-4              39.0          ..         ..                 9.0       1O.OA        C."
FOUCAT ION
AOJUSTFn ENROLLMFNT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        66.0       6e.o         71 0.0 Ip               g-    I I I *J L  131.. Le
SFCONDARY SCHOOL                      16.0        32.0 a.     36.0-16     .0     A           23.3       57.0
YFARS OF SCHnOLING PROVIDFD
IFIRST AND SECOND LFVEL)              12.0        12.0       25..0               13.         .1          ?.J
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
1t OF SECONDARY)                      22.0        19.0        18.0 A              6.0o a     1,.0       7-J
ADULT LITERACY RATE IX)                  20.0          ..       *D.0                 ..        59. a       94.0
HOUS ING
PFRSnNS PFR ROOM (AVERAGE)                1.6         ..          ..                 ..         1.9
OCCUPIFO DWELL INGS WITHInUT
PIPED WATER IS)                       60 .0&a       ..          ..               66.0 &_    h64.7
ACCESS TO ELE(STRICITY
(2 OF ALL DWELLINrS)                  38.0a         *           *1. ad                      4.0           *-
RURAL nWELL INOS CONNECTFD
TO ELECTRICITY t1)                                                                6. 3. td    I  . 7   1 )
CONSUMPTION
RACin RECEIVERS (PEP T)RnL Pr-PI         5E.0      132.0       1431.               45.3        P9.3      '14.0
PASSFNGER CARS (PER THnUl prP)            3.0        4.0         5.0                d.0         R.)       73.0
ELECTRICITY INWH/YR PFR CAPI            102.0      22R.0       225.0              235.3       24r.0     lu27.)
NEWSPRINT IKGIYR PER CAP)                 1.1        1.0         1.3 La             1.2 L       0.7         5.U
SEF NFOTFS AND DEFINITIOINS ON tFVEESF



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
5 07 ES
Utnlna  otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any yea r betee  1959 and 1961. far 1970 beewnen 1968 and 970,..ad for Nest Recn.    atnt-b      we
1973 sod 1975.
-Spoino sooceasfof di-eriftoatfan of its      --oinl  otr...t..e, degre  of ind-atefallatf     and deneo-Iet- of to-ris  naks it an appropria_    _bjeotice"
EGY fr              1960    /a  1950-55,   lb  E-tlwdtng papolatlin of atal  aggto.n-rwion   is the frwetter disrio-o,    Ic  Fig-re relate   to prson   ale
year  and over,   ' ewoltdas nond popIlatino.  Id  1964-65,  In  1962,    'f  nT-ading aoi--rat   -caead nidw ices
~j1960- 62,  /b  tbanIonl
970   L.  966,   Lb  R.I.,.s to 12-64 years of wge,    /n  Reg;isterd, net all pesottoing in, shn   -,nty.   /d  5-19 and Il-It, yeses
of age tesp.,(ilel.]
9071 RECFNT ESTDMATE      /s  1972,   /b Hay 973,    Ic  Regiatored, nut all pranItirg In thn o--ty,      /d   197,   In  1969-liavrae
/f As P percentageof -eplosne-.
PbILPPOIES         1970    I  As peroenrage of -spInYnent,    /b  7-12 and 13-16 7-'ar  of age reaPeott-ly,    In  Not intloding prisate  --otlsal s-hunis
or nevttenal shu.-,oe courses        /d  1967, hn,,-eblda,   Ie   Inaide only,   /f  laport  only
rCORErY             970   /   E-lude- 17 tastern provinoa,      lb  1965-67,    Ic  gaffe no pnpiati- under 15 and 65 and oer to labor force age 15 y-ar
and   ..nt ;.Id  5yar     n  oe,    nldee unosple,ad;     /e  !etatered only,     If  Dispo...ble mouts. of h-uehcldu,
'JI.ntg  aitntnee        n  ndeI_a :    lb  196-4.66,  Li  7-ilyer    of age,   fI P-r-      ate year  old and --e hn tnll
the  esn   takers thatnhy can road and write..
0PA19                1970   IA  Regis1terd uneoplayed.   /b  geglatere.d, not eli p-acitoig tonb    onu--try.  Ic  6-10 and 1-lb ye-rs of ege rs peti-nin
R6, Jo1y 29, 1976
DeNyThl'N05 OF SOCIAL l4DICATORS
in-.iiu  ornren  pnr..n.  Popolatio  dioidnd by sombr- - rractioing
Toal-uco  s,raero        tpligln         re   n   ln     ae.,otewd fanle groduato n-rue, "t-ai-dt or netfe~nrn,ae
mu, a      ootorsr        e   gterra       rsue      roprwry 00                   uoxiiiway Personne  uthb trofolng or ouporuenre
perenentyfr crpt,pattarew, socket 6 kitchen gordene n    to tie              Ppuoltiun nay hnoopi.tulbepd- Popalatlo  dividnd by eeber of hospital bedo
Call in.                                                       asa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ilobla te poh~io adpIAte geerol Anod uPeoiwlinrd hospital wed
rahobilit.tien nant-r; euludes no..sIng boons wed oetwblahent.t Lot,
7,NP oc- c-ita 110$) -GNP Per -opits eut-t-e at -rknt prioe, raiou-                    a-tcdiel wed prevetlIo. .....
a'ted by sane t..o.rn io 'nthd as World Bnkn tlloa (1973-75 baa1.);              'Far eanil-suTl    of uslargls fl of resoi-           C,os) - ,Ct,pid from  nusrv
790. 97  and 1975 dtsa                                                           sqlento        o   odsple         nlobl    in 'etry Per caPita pet- day;
II'olel supplied onoprisa donstic predootion, iogtrts Ions exports,
Poealation and cetol aratistlon                                  we~~~~~d ebangs Ian etoki not sopplien  nlde wnioia fsd,. soda, qotiltlna
Pieotu ill-,r_ni~llal -A of aw1y firt't     tf sot ae-flshle,                    -sd In food pr-esing wed le..s. bAai distribution; requtrenets osre
t,eroofe -nd--sea      e,to   1960, 1970 and 1975 dars.                        eotinatsd by ?A0 based on pbysiologlooI nood   fer n.a-l onttleity
and hooib enneidariug -ne,rnonetAl teoperotwen, ind     wnghto. ugs wed
yoelaao deoie.-  ec tP  reIo   - Mid-year population Per uquar  kiln-            sedlnt.rlbutlone ef populsti-s. And alloolsg 20% for ounce At bh-ho,ld
Poywloelon dnosfty -Per saar-6     o    agC. ad      - Oputed an shon   for          per topit etwepy o0f, frtn:Iot (roata rday    -FT'nttolo ctntet of per
orelro sdony.                                                              reiontsppyo            odpr   tdY    e   uply of food In dnfinnd o
sboe-l req.iotrests for oil oo-trtes ss tob2iehd by UllA feonn.,e
y tol t.'tottst ics                                             Rnnnarcb~~~He-- It  Sernions provide for a etaioo  lrwuao' hI gr-eo of Wtot1
C-r,de birch roto per hboaad     Annual line brhn per thonsond of ;id-                 yrtni per day, aol 77 gons of arictl a,d palno Pruotoin     ofhiob 10
you  popalation    eoyL    atiLtisnl  a-er.ogn  ending tn 1960 and 1970,             groo  shookd be soiasl Protoinl ttesn otweodards ur  lvr tbo- thos-o
an  lo-yca   rg    t'dsgi    975 foe non trr-nt -utbsste.                       75 gr-e  of total protein ned 73 g ra    of _rina  proteinannanog
Prado doac,I eat onethosad - on_ai deanha por theosan.d of old-yea                     forgtin  -Ird, proposed by FhO in the Third World FoodSuvy
ypfco.e-yea   rlhett asr-gn       onise  to, 1969 ond 1970, ond            Pr0    bio     insplfren onio sed noise. - Proeninit spply tf food
,'-L   -t2lity  .t. (/th.u) -  -v.] d..t               11,1~~~~~,rlt, IIhh-AneewI doathe per thovosed in ago gewp 1-It
Q'cIfn  oiy.po..L5o          -noldoh. ofr iifonto audet oon ynwr                     yge, tFFhIdooiie)"TS        Ago greap; e-ggstoil -0 An -ndlnove of -a-
7TfijWj/er7h -iS    II- OW   rtbs.                                                   n-tritinn.
Lola. oooetIauov atbir th (yroI -Ae-rage nombee of ysar   of life r-isl-
Ieg at bl,lrib h;noaly five-year occgee noding in 1960, 1970 and                     loto
1074 'or flonupiog nooew.AtfWnriaotrta                                                                         ptnre        o    R-1- Orlntn of all  gco
rae- orA-go  abnr of lion daughters apon      ol                  lel-   'I? y__rj7 itor  nnS'oTi-i7gep iTuo   iInld-e of 1d-, -qd
i.a'ti'i/'dl'  e.-d,oct Ic -eriod If sha eperiseons present 00-              7.-Il yrear  but udjotod for different leug ts of primay ed-aza'n;
vylfly for ifty rotasl  -.1a'yfin-Year aoergne ending IIt la60,                 o'r oovntrln- 4th aol...Iedoaton            euro not to  noren  7.1010
i'll..td 1/5 ,a, daul,7tl,c  oat elseneo                                           noon pupils  a    belou or ab-n tin off.ioo   neho-l age.
OieLoto,  roti    at 1%)-toa        -Cop-tnd analgront htatw      fa nid-           Aila-tnd nnrolloent ratio -   -oondar schoo   -   APot,pid on aboce; u,nod-
yea  i,pvlcso  fr19~50-hf. 19610-70 end 19701-71                                 se-doatin req.in eAt leot fe'Cean            of  prvdpiayisr
Poilro  ruh rtof7     -oo-feptei leko geroth rain of tubal                     tien IPr_in     gnrl rort_onolr machoc tcaiiglnrcin                   o
pouofo  loffenni      T Iefniloc  o   .rbo  w..o. np affont oo r-papilo of 17 in 17 yes oo OfAol c-rreepndonte core                    aegneal
Iiiyo  .7  mng                                                                ...triu.  nrld,d.
O,I'"rr]it"C         r-      (   Ratio of urban to totalI population: dIP-           Soars of' sohooln prvded (first wed sonod Ieds)           Total years of
orean ony affo,t vaparability of data                                              -enolnE  torodr  ro. ocao -lttstr tinn nay ho partially
otOttI' ,'oitnirfev.                                           or n~~~~~-.pepstoly -xoeded.
triii,  rrant) -Childre  (i0-lt yow.rs ), oorking-age (15-hit y-wr),       faatliool nroisn (       f1eoda         -   -yeaIIo...  ietItntiuns inolode
't,iif rtiend(iS' ples an  oner)ae pereetagn  of ol-year popalation.    Sebia.Idsr             rolr program      shith eperata Independently o
A,    -y_j: ti .  5ati of yopiulstloo i-der IS and 65 and Acr tO                 de.spnrtttnts of sannotlry Iniilos
"'I (.1.                                  gottlt ifisenne~~~~~~~~~   ~~~ rate  %  - L tert  oais(ble to read wvd 'orte) 'o Pe--
- -   i - lt I  fpoptluIott ttder IS ard 65 wed o-e                -tnsge of total odoit yopnotioo ogod 15 yonr    and -ort.
9 age gsa,,p of li-dit osurs. o
nporevr     ei,rof d-if-n tinder n-spirn   of oa-lti-I Coily                       P.rr... (-.mg          - A-rera   her of persoos per roa  in -ioopled
ybottl., yoguoufire i-reflit.n                                                   a no-tin30I dtollig. -t tohoe area      doollitge enolodo nto-poc-aent
funtn t,a a  e - 5mm  5 ofoneiod weni) - Per--tagns nrf e'I'd                  ciretinn- Anit -nncplild ports.,
-nmnn 'i   i,(i,  oro    os74h y-an        who tothirtb-voctrL    de                Ceupiod deliteoithet pined eater(5            Oocupied oa-staoteI dwell-
inn  .,a7 tnertd uvtmoIn -as  ado group.                                     inge int arita  wd rural areas without _nide or outeide piped wt.te
f-oolltit-e as peroentoge of all wenupied dwellings.
Access to electricityg(1of Aldeiat) - Connontiua1 dwelligs with
~Qf  7] jia' Pa (1,li.su-d) - 1~n...i-ally -oi-e peno..n. including               eleericiy i lie;      quaterso    poernen  of total thoellings in urba
',rsidFoarsati'"_iiH_hijIyh d ba t, n-ltdinc hb.i-sois, stodents, etc.;              ut_ eea    wraaotyi..
dsfiotn It i,na  co touo onotln   r ti n.t c-eperablo.                             Rura doslnoosnetdt            loilnyI)- C-isptod as ahoa fot rora
lAbor foro n       .,ri..Iotor. j  -Agrlitiurol lahor for-  (In farmig,                 Isetnd'tli.-tgis otly.
r.r..try. -Oland f ahing) on p-sreotag of ntel. Inbor fotre.
onmoy   %f inbo.r for..) - Unsupl nysd are -sitly delisad as persons          CoweosIIatt
ah  rn t.'"lI Ig to tube A job, out ef A Job an a gIIean day,                    ibdiS7'teieare (per th,, pun) - All typos of     -in.ns. for radio brond-
-tnotio  -i of  Jofo, and -eekiog ork for A nperiftd siuline-                        -ots to gexera1 pbhlo Per thousuod of p.nttatiot; nonlden ulicamud
perfail -n    - nroilg oet oOkl nay tiot in n0s,tAfoblo belweon einnencoet ooutrios wed in yaire often rogiotatie                            f   dv    es 
hi. i ittit orsit dotoitius o  icotpluye  and  euronof daa,it  ifsi-n; data for rsontt yeeas my e-t be ceporble nInomo cour-
t'. p., r't.,yn    ffiro etatiutti s. sa-pl. Sa-vys, costylery we-triet abolished litnenag.
if oymniti lttiiitoooo.                                       fgf%gflgg~gar~,gflt(sftP,pgp,  - Pes-ege, oar   nonqrin  wetor oars   oatittg
than ngt perasons   sooldes.   tulsne    heosne  wed nilita-y
CoFnn- d1otrio-t-n - Ps-nattag  of prinute latn-m  (bath In.. hash adcbil.
bind)reevdb --      nhst S     r  Etnne  70,  enrnt70. wdyeerniF                                                   AAoa-Ioosoonio      f ind-striul, ooner-
Ittif tf bh-sebiIda.                                                                 c             n   e   nt  uleoteiityl In k        h-otibor per oopitu; gII--
trally based on prodontion data, without sli1wnoo for loos..es in grids
Diutifhutf- of rsnd     -.hrsbp - Farneotages of lund owd by ...wItitlnt                tat allowing for Sports sod exporte of electricity.
Ill and nonret, 302.f lad nwe-r.                                                   .tnsseaefJkg/yg,per t!    - Par cepita a--Ia tinop      nIn kilogrpen
Ho.Ith end N,triti.n  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~    ~   ~~     ffeiiatadl"I6boidbiitiH   prodnotton PIs nat iports of news.print.
Po%     -A    _      Ji,   Ppolatlon   dRiidad by ewebar of p-otioing
3ijtEiOi"iit'T?fTToma   edi-I snhanl At ,ni-erity len-1.



.ANNFX T
EGY PT                                             Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIfC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amounts in millions of US dollars)
Actual              Est.        r,icicted       1973- 1975-
1973    1974      19;1     T 1978    19 77    1980     1975  1980           19 73  1975  1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS        -                                 (Constant 1975 Prices)               Average AnnuaIl
Growth Rates       A   rcnto      .'
Gross Do-mestic Produict                10,012  10,n1.~   11,781   12,547    13,362   16,141     8.4   6.5            99   100     99
Gains from TerTns of Trade(+                56     361      .          90        88      123                           1    ..   __
Gross Domestic Income               1008    10,982    11,781   1,37      1340     16,263     8.     .6           100-  100-   100-
Import (imcl. NFS)                       2,872   4,065     5,000i   4,836    5,062     6,100   32.0    4.1            28   '42     37
Exports  " (import capacity)             1.997   2.33      2.284    2.791     3.223  4AL574     6.7   10.4            20    19     28
Rcsource Gap                               875   1,729     2,716    2,045     1,669    1,526                           8    23      9
Consumption Expenditures                 9,570  10,562    11,630   12,249    12,443   14,228    10.2   4.0            95    99     87
Investmcnt     " (inc. stocks)           1,373   2,149     2,867    2,433     2,676    3,562    44.0   4.4            13    24     22
Domestic Savings                           498     420       151      388     1,007    2,036     ..   67.5             5      1    13
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                     Annual Data at Current Prices                                 As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                            291     480       728      748       909    1,502                          17     16    20
Fuels and intermediate goods             633   1,655     2,057    1,935     2,261    3,476                          38    46     46
Consumption Goods                        740   1.356     1,723    1.764     1,939    2.660                          45     38    34
Total Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)     1,664   3,491    4,508     4,447     5,109    7,638                         100    100   100
Exports
Agricultural Products                    423     857       522      585       680      911                          42     33    20
Manufactured Goods                       580     817     1.046   _1j41      2,067    3,_6 72                        58     67    80
Total Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)     1,003   1,_674    1,568    2,000     2,747    4,583                         100    100   100
Travel                                   156     266       332      385       460      760
Suez Canal                                .       .         85      310       365      soc
Merchandise Trade Indices                                    Average 1975 - 100
Export Price Index                        68     122       100      110       118      146
import Price Index                        67      95       100      105       114      141
Terms of Trade index                     101     128       100      105       104       104
Exports Volume Index                      94      88       100      116       148      200
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                                        As Percent of Total
Agriculture                               33      34        33       32        31       29
Industry, Electricity & Construction      24      26        28       28        28       30
Services                                 43       40.      39        40       41        41
Total                                    100-    10-0      100-     100-      100      -100-
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current Prices                                                     As Percent of GrP
Current Receipts                       3,142   3,648     4,178    5,847                                              34    35
Current Expenditures                   2.786   3.487     4,093    4,836                                              30    34
Budgetary Savings                        356     161       85     1,011                                               4     1
Public Sector Investment               1,141   1,446     2,209    2,130                                              12    19
us $ million
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                          Actual-        Prelim.   Budget           DETAIL ON                 At 1675 P and ER,
(As % of Total Current Expenditures)             1973     1974     1T975      19 76           PUBLIC SECTOR         Draft Plan
INVESTMENT PROGRAM      (1976-80)  % of Total
Defense                                         39.1      24.8      21.1     25.3
SubsidJes                                       17.1     35.8       38.5     30.4            Agriculture               1,89493
General Services                                19.6      17.6      18.1     23.2            Industty and Mining       6,656        32. 5
Economic Services                              *24.2      21.8      22.3     21.1            Power                     1,280         6.3
Total Current_KExpenditu~res                   100.0     100.0     10o.o   ioo.0             Transport and comn-
-            ra~~~~~~unications     5,120        25.0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   O tth e r  5 , 5 0 2  2 6 . 9
Total Expenditures       20,452       iGO.O
SELECTED INDICATORS                                        1973-    1975-
1975     1980
Average ICOR                                               2.08     3.26
import Elasticity                                         3.81      0.63 /2
LABOR FORCE ANTD                                                                                 Value Added Per Worker (Currt      Prcder)
OUTP__r_PER_WORKE                                       Total Labor Force                               In US Dollars    h_ of Av cra t2
In Million.;        7 of Total                        1973    157T5    1973    .1q7 5
1973     1975      1973     1975
Agriculture                                       4.2       4.2       47        45                       624      858      E7       71
Ir.dustry                                         1.2       1.2       13        13                     1,557   1,978      167      163
Service                                           3.6       3.9       40        42                       615     803       66       66
Total                                             9.0       9. 3     100-     -100-                      932    1-,2 13   100      100
/1  Inicludes allocaL loinS for wage and nalary lnncre.nsn's inn 1976 not al loren.d by -iectors In this tabl,e.
L  Import ent.-I-tc fy fur 0 75~-"0 low h,ecannme of deer' si  nllotnepr uci       n17.       or thii pvrlod 197 71 980,
I mpo rt  ('];I tt LI I y  IF.  ,:;r Irmt2d  at  1. 00.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
EGYPT
BALANCE OF PAY MENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of US dollars at current prices)
Actual           Est.                  Projected
1973    1974    1975     1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
ST'%ARY BALANCE OF PAYmENTS
Export of Goods, f.o.b.                    1,003   1,674   1,568   2,000   2,747   3,444   4,040    4,583
Imports of Goods. c.i.f.                 -1.664   -3.491  -4.508  -4.447  -5,109  -5.811  -6.657   -7.638
Trade Balance                             -661  -1,817  -2,940  -2,447  -2,362  -2,367  -2,617   -3,055
Services Receipts                           421      727   1,261   1,635   1,879   2,113    2,366   2,706
Services Payments                           414      542     801   1.010   1.105    1.237   1,363   1.483
Services Balance                             7     185     460     625     774     876   1,003    1,223
A.  Deficit on Goods and Scrvices             -654  -1.632  -2.480  -1.822  -1.588  -1.491  -1.614   -1.832
B. Amortization of LMT Debt                   -407    -631    -568    -553    -534    -625     -606    -783
(of which suppliers' credits)            (277)  (-285)  (-280)  (-298)  (-286)  (-313)   (-266)  (-323)
C.  Foreign Exchange Requirements            1.061   2;263   3.048   2.375   2,122   2,116   2.220    2.615
D. Supply of Funds                           1.177   2.091   3.068   2,515   2,222   2.216   2,320    2,715
Private unrequited transfers                 6      42      91      37                 ..
Official grants                            725   1,264     988     575
Gulf Fund for Egypt Development            --      --      --      250  (1,922   i.991    2,116   2,243
Other M4LT loans                           170     199     583   1,083
Suppliers' credits                         160     273     363     420     450      325     254     372
MLT deposits/loans CBE                     --        5   1,580     300      ..
Foreign investment                         --        7      2b      50      100     150     200     250
Short-term commercial bank credits, net    352     585    -264    -200    -250     -250    -250    -150
Balance of Payments Agreements, net       -113     -28    -241     ..       ..
Other monetary movements, net             -123    -256     -52     ..      ..
E.  Change in Reserves                         116    -172      20     140      100     100     100     100
Actual       Est.
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                       DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE, ILT     1973  1974   1975  1976
Official Grants and Grant-like               725   1,264     988     575      (Public Debt Outstanding &
Disbursed)
Public MLT Loans
IBRD                                      ..        85      77     157         Interest on Public Debt       79    95    111   231
IDA                                         75      55      55      40         Repayments on Public Debt    407   631   569    553
Other Multilateral                         ..       6      100     350         Total Public Debt Service    486   726   680    784
Governments                                290     595   2,507   1,375
Suppliers/Commercial                       160     273     363     670       Burden on Exchange Earnings (x)
Total Public MLT Loans                     525   1,014   3,102   2,592
Public Debt Service          34.1  30.2  24.0  21.b
Actu,al Debt Outstanding on Scnt. 30, 1976
EXTERNAL DEBT                               Dis     edUiTy          Percent
World Bank                                     33.7                 0.6
IDA                                           124.1                 2.2
Goverrmients and Arab Dev. Funds           4,520.0                 80.5
Suppliers                                    685.4                 12.3
Other MLT                                     252.6                 4.4
Total Publ.c MLT Debt                       5,615.8               100.0
Short-term Debt (disb. only)                1,380.7
EMIDA
January 18, 1977



L[tgrs 1 O f S
THIE STATUS OF BAINK C:.O(UP (K-PEItfONS TN EGYPTr
A. STATEMT-TlE OF BANK LOANS AiD) IMA CREI)ITS (As of 0RcIhb_r 3- fl 76)
Amouniit in rmil1ion US Do] Iara
; noan/Credit                                                                     Less ronce l atlnnA
Numribers                 Ye.^r  Borower    lurpoe.                       Bank_    IDA   Und iabit3ed _
Ln 243-UAR                1959     SCA      Suez Canal Expansion          56.5      --        --
Cr 181-UAR                1970     UAR      Nile Delt-a Drainage           --      26.0       8.5
Cr 284-UAR                1972     ARE      Railways                       --      30.0       2.8
Cr S-13-UAR 1/            1972     ARE      Cotton Ginning Engineering     --       0.2       --
Cr 393-UAR                1973     ARE      Upper Eigypt Drainage          --      36.0      19.5
Cr 412-UAR                1973     ARE      BOA                            --      15.0       2.5
Cr 423-UAR                1973     ARE      Cotton Ginning                 --      18.5       7.0
Cr 437-UAR                1973     ARE      Population                     --                 4.3
Cr S-15-UAR 2/            1973     ARE      Talkha Enginecerng             --       0.4       --
Cr 484-UAR                1974     ARE      Tal',bha Fertilizer            --      20.0      12.1
Cr 524-EGT                1974     ARE      Ag/Ind Imports I               --      35.0       3,7
L.u 1062-EGT              1974     ARE      Ag/Ind Imports 1              35.0      --        7.4
Ln 1064-EGT               1974     SCA      Suez Canal Rehabilitation     50.0      --       42,9
Lii 1085-EGT              1975     ARE      Tourah Cement                 40.0      --       32.6
Ln ]098-EGT               1975     ERO      Railways                      37.0      --       29.5
Cr 548-EGT                1975     ARE      Telecommunications             --      30.0      30.0
Cr 576-EGT                1975     ARE      BOA II                         --      25.0      24.1
In 123)-r:GT              1976     APA      Alexandria Port               45.0      --       45.0
T n 1276-EGT 5/           1976     ARE      Fruit and Vegetable Dev.      50.0      --       50.0
Cr 637-EGT                1977     ARF      Upper Egypt Drainage II        --      40.0      40.0
Lu 1285-EGT               1977     AR1:     Upper Egypt Drainage II       10.0      --       10.0
r,- 1.292-FGT 3/          1977     ARE     Textile Rehabilitation         52.0      ---      52.0
i,LalIS                                                                  375.5    281.1     423.9
Of i.hich has becei repaid                                                56.5      0.6
Tota-l now outstanding                                                   319.0    280.5
rPoull t sold                                                   7.6
of w:hich hlas been repaid                                      6.0
Tot:al now held by Bank and IDA I                                        317.4    28O.5     423.9
B. STATEMENT OF TFC INVESTM'.NTS (As of December 31, 1976)
Amount in
US$ inillion
Year         Obligor                    Type of Business           Loan   E quity  Total
1'976        Arab Ceramic Company       Cerawric Industry          4.25      .75     5.0
(plts .635  (5.035)
contingency
cr,mmitrent)
I/  .cf inamicel nnder Credit 423-UAR.
2/ RY' in.riBced Uo1der Credit 484-UAR.
_   "!Vt ,   ye-t e- *ctti'e.
/ I.xc1 idire _-, change adjusruaents.
.      r/ 163rd  io; Loan.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage Project; US$26 million Credit of
April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
At present, about 65 percent of the project is completed; full com-
pletion is expected by end-1979, i.e., 2-1/2 years behind schedule. However,
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily and it is expected that the whole of
the credit will have been committed by December 1977, and that disbursement
will be completed by mid-1978. Due to inflation the local cost of the project
has increased by 90 percent, from $116 million to $220 million. There is no
foreign exchange cost overruns. Progress in project implementation during 1976
was satisfactory and, for the first time, the project reached the established
annual target. However, there ate indications that allocations of local funds
by the Government Pre likely to be reduced below required levels. This could
become a major issue for the project in the future.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Dates: (i) March 31, 1977,
for track materials, locomotives and spare parts; and (ii) December 31, 1977,
for signalling and telecommunications equipment and installation.
The project is being implemented satisfactorily. All procurement
contracts have been awarded, and the credit has been fully committed. To
allow the remaining balance to be utilized, the Closing Date for the part of
the Credit allocated to signalling and telecommunications items was extended
from September 30, 1976, the original date, to December 31, 1977; the Closing
Date for the other parts of the Credit, originally December 31, 1973, was
extended for a fourth time to March 31, 1977.
Cr. No. S-13-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Engineering Project;
US$175,000 Credit of November 17, 1972; Effective Date: June 15, 1973;
Closing Date: November 30, 1973.
This credit was fully disbursed and subsequently refinanced under
Cr. 423 below.
1/ These notes are designed to infornm the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 5
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage Project; US$36 million Credit of June
8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
At present, about 30 percent .,f the project is completed; full com-
pletion is expected by end-1980, i.e., 6 months behind schedule. About 50
percent of the contracts for equipment have been awarded. Foreign exchange
costs have risen by about 14 percent almost entirely due to price increases
of materials for bilharzia control. The foreign cost overrun of the bilharzia
control program is being financed under the Upper Egypt Drainage II Loan (No.
1285-EGT and Credit No. 637-EGT). As ini the case of the Nile Delta Drainage
Project (Cr. No. 181-EGT), the possibility of reduced allocations of local
funds could become a major issue for the project in the future.
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Bank of Alexandria Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29,
1973; Effective Date: November 29, 1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
The entire amount of the credit has been committed to subprojects.
As of December 31, 1976, $12.5 million had been disbursed. A proposal to
transfer responsibility for this project to the newly established Development
Industrial Bank was distributed to the Executive Directors on January 28,
1977.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
Prices of bids received in May 1974 for major equipment packages
were much higher than expected, and the total estimated foreign exchange cost
is now estimated to be about $41.5 million. In January 1976, the Saudi Fund
for Development concluded an agreement to provide $25.6 million to finance
the cost overrun thus enabling implementation of the project as appraised.
Awards for most of the major contracts have been made and equipment delivery
has begun. However, due to the delay in securing additional local funds,
project implementation has fallen behind by about two years.    Also, local
specialists who prepare detailed design work are not satisfactory and sub-
stantially behind schedule. IDA has asked that new engineers be retained.
Cr. No. 437-UAR - Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Effective Date: March 25, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project has been greatly delayed by a shortage of local funds
and by administrative problems. It is now being carried out with a reduced
scope but substantially in accordance with a revised schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Cr. No. S-15-UAR - Talkha Urea Fertilizer Engineering Project; US$400,000
Credit of November 20, 1973; Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1975.
The credit was refinanced under Cr. 484 below.
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22. 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1979.
The project is proceeding well and mechanical completion by March
1978 appears feasible. Additional foreign exchange financing to cover a
32 percent cost overrun has been secured from the Arab co-lenders under the
project. Local funds from the Governmeat to the project and the company's
existing operations have not been provided as required and the company had
to borrow short-term debt resulting in an unsatisfactory liquidity position.
This has been brought to the Government's attention which indicated that
appropriate allocations in the 1977 budget would be made.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977 (Credit
and Loan).
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and dis-
bursements are well advanced. One of the six surveys of industrial sub-
sectors has been completed and the five others are expected to be completed
by end-1977.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date:   April 21, 1975; Closing Date:   June 30,
1978.
Disbursement of Bank funds has now begun, the Canal Authority
having first used lower interest funds from other sources. Progress to date
on project implementation has been good, and procurement on other items to be
financed by the Bank is well advanced.   A new project for the enlargement of
the canal has been appraised and is expected to be presented to the Executive
Directors early in FY78.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
Conctract awards for mechanical and electrical equipment have been
made and the civil contractor has started work. Availability of local funds
continues to be a problem and could result in cost overruns and delay in
project implementation. The Government has been requested to make necessary
budgetary allocations.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Progress on physical investment items under the project is generally
satisfactory. However, the Egyptian Railways (ER) are experiencing opera-
tional difficulties with a large number of locomotives out of service because
of lack of spare parts. A program to remedy this situation is being discussed
with Government and ER. Also, declining traffic and rising costs resulted in
a worsening of ER's financial position. Government is considering an increase
in rail tariffs proposed by ER.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
Contract awards for cables have been largely completed and bids for
telex equipment are being evaluated, both several months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Bank of Alexandria Project; US$25 million Credit of
July 30, 1975; Effective Date: February 19, 1976; Closing Date: October 31,
1979.
As of December 31, 1976, abouL $10 million had been committed under
the project and disbursements have begun. A proposal to transfer responsi-
bility for this project to the newly established Development Industrial Bank
was distributed to the Executive Directors on January 28, 1977.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
After some initial delays project implementation has begun. A
project unit has been established and civil engineering consultants have been
appointed.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Steps are being taken to commence project implementation.
Ln. No. i285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
millicn Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing'Date: June 30, 1983.
This loan and credit were declared effective on January 31, 1977
and project implementation has commenced.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 20, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The terminal date of effectiveness of this loan has been extended
once. The only condition of effectiveness still to be met is the ratifica-
tion of the legal documents by the Egyptian parliament.



ANNtX III
Page 1 of 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT - EDUCATION PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        Arab Republic of Egypt
Implementing     Ministry of Education
Ministries:     Ministry of Higher Education
Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction
Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources
Amount:          US$25 million equivalent
Terms:            Standard
Project          The proposed project is designed to:   (i) expand, diversify
Description:    and upgrade the training of technicians and skilled and semi-
skilled workers; (ii) introduce comprehensive lower and
upper secondary schooling, on a pilot basis; (iii) increase
and upgrade the training of primary school teachers, techni-
cal teachers and workshop instructors; and (iv) improve edu-
cational and manpower planning. Specifically, the proceeds
of the IDA Credit would help finance the following:
(a) Buildings, furniture and equipment and technical
assistance for:
-   2 technician training institutes
- 20 building trades vocational training centers
-   3 building trades instructor training centers
(b) Furniture and/or equipment and technical assistance for:
-   1 lower and 2 upper secondary comprehensive pilot
schools
-   4 technician training schools
-   1 technical teacher training school
-   3 technician training institutes
-  10 industrial vocational training centers
-   1 industrial instructor training center
(c)  Technical assistance for pre-investment studies of:
-   3 lower and 2 upper secondary comprehensive
pilot schools
-   3 primary teacher training colleges
-   6 technician training schools
-   4 technician training institutes
-   5 industrial vocational training centers



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(d)  Technical assistance for educational planning studies:
-   secondary level teacher training
-   school mapping
-   norms and standards for educational buildings
-   refinement of educational development strategy
-   manpower needs study.
Estimated Costs:
Foreign   Local    Total
(US$ Million)
1.  Construction and/or acquisition of facilities
and equipment and furniture for:
-   3 comprehensive schools
(one lower and two upper secondary)          0.38       0.05   0.43
-   1 technical teacher training school             0.31      0.03    0.34
-   4 vocational instructor training centers        1.26      1.15    2.41
-   4 technician schools                            3.84      0.42    4.26
-   5 technician training institutes                7.44      3.14   10.58
-  10 vocational training centers for
industrial trades                             2.20      0.33   2.53
-  20 vocational training centers for
construction trades                           9.66     11.64  21.30
2.  Pre-investment Engineering Design                   0.02      0.63    0.65
3.  Technical Assistance                                1.54      0.38    1.92
Project Cost Excluding Contingencies             26.65     17.77   44.42
4.  Contingencies (physical and price)                  5.62      4.13    9.75
Total Project Cost                               32.27     21.90   54.17
Financing Plan:
IDA Credit                                         25.00       -     25.00
Government                                          7.27     21.90   29.17
Total                                          32.27     21.90   54.17
Estimated Disbursements
of IDA Credit:                     Fiscal Year        1978        1979
(in US$ million)
Annual             9.4         15.6
Cumulative         9.4         25.0



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Procurement       Contracts for equipment would be awarded in accordance with
Arrangements:    Association guidelines on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding except for equipment items which can only be
grouped in small packages (under US$50,000) items which must
be compatible with other equipment procured under ICB and
items of such specialized nature that ICB would not be
practical. These items which would not exceed an aggregate
total of 20% of the total cost of each ministry's equipment
items (or US$4.4 million for total cost project), would be
procured under normal government procurement procedures,
which are satisfactory to the Association, and where possible,
would include price quotations from at least three manufac-
turers or suppliers. Because of the small amount of furni-
ture in the project furniture (could be procured under local
competitive bidding. For the purpose of comparing foreign
and local bids, local manufacturers of equipment would be
allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of
custom duties applicable to competing imports or 15% of CIF
price, whichever is lower. All civil works contracts will
be government financed and would be awarded under government
procedures.
Consultants:      About 24 man-years of consultant services will be required
to assist in (i) development of curricula and equipment lists
for the technician training institutes; (ii) completion of
equipment lists for the comprehensive schools; (iii) training
teachers in the use and maintenance of instructional equip-
ment; (iv) initiation of new training courses in the indus-
trial trades vocational training centers; (v) development of
curricula and preparation of equipment lists for institutions
included within preinvestment studies and advising local
architects and engineers in the design of those institutions;
and (vi) educational planning studies. These services will
be provided by suitably qualified educational institutions
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Consultants already started work on the technician training
institutes (item (i)).
Appraisal         "Appraisal of an Education Project, Arab Republic of Egypt
Report:          (No. 1285-EGT, dated January 28, 1977)



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project first identified:                           November 1975
(b)  Time taken by Government to prepare the project:     Four months
(November 1975-
March 1976)
(c) Date of the First Bank Mission to consider Project
(Appraisal Mission):                              March 29, 1976
(d)  Date of Completion of Negotiations:                  December 10, 1976
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                       July 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Bank Staff, through frequent missions, will review progress in
implementation of project technical assistance component which is essential
for achieving its objectives, in procurement, and in the educational planning
studies. A mission visited Egypt prior to Board presentation to assist in
preparing terms of reference for Consultants and to review final equipment
lists and draft procurement documents.
Section III: Action by Borrower and Special Conditions
1.        Prior to Board presentation, each Ministry designated the staff in
charge of supervising project implementation (para. 57).
2.        Special Conditions are:
(a)  Establishment of detailed data on the current needs, and the
projected needs for the next ten-year period, for trained
personnel in each sector of the economy, within two and one
half years of the date of the Development Credit Agreement
(para. 48);
(b) Development of a tracer system to monitor attitudes, back-
grounds and achievements in theoretical and practical studies
of students in the comprehensive schools and their respective
job placement and performance after graduation (para. 53(v));



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
(c) Establishment in each technician training school and tech-
nical institute of an advisory committee to help assure
continuing relevance of educational programs, by the opening
date of such schools and institutes; and improvement of the
existing follow-up system to trace graduates placement and
performance, by the time such schools and institutes graduate
students for the first time (para. 53(i) and (ii));
(d) Completion of Educational Planning Studies within 18 months
of the date of the Development Credit Agreement (para. 53(vii));
(e) Conclusion of contracts with qualified educational institutions
for the expert services and the fellowships under the Project,
by December 31, 1977 (para. 55);
(f) Employment by the Ministry of Education of additional architects,
as and when needed (para. 57W;
(g) Acquisition of land for the project institutions, as and when
needed; and purchase of buildings meetinSg the space require-
ments agreed with the Association, for use as vocational training
centers (para. 58).



_T30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Co
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C A;ff   1s --
i~~~~~~~,,      r    -  l,aOttA; ...... J~~
Os El 0a1,
~ 001 ma  r F A   0       II
H.1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
ARAB\ REPUBLIC OF EGYPTJ 
\     t    _ i)~~~S,f              C- 
t---~~~~~~~~~~- ----------  
APPRAISAL REPORT
OF FIRST -EDUCATIONSIT
PROJECT
-26'
o1  Comprehensiv  Schools
*  C-ompehensie Schools (Engineering Designs)
*  Prin-oy Teocher Teemingn College (Engmnee-ing Designs)
A   Techn'icion Trodsing Schools
A  Techn.,clov  Tominmg Schools jEngineeing Desgns)  A W
oD  Technicol Teocher Troining Sc1hool
A   teh, n,ci  .---n  siies
O  Vocoti;nol T"e' ing  Cente,, Incustriol T,odes
O  Vorotional Tro-nng Cerrer, Industral Trodes (Engineerin   Desi,gns)
- 0-  -b.Vv n,ooi l- -t,oor--Tr.- ..g Cente,  dcsii-l ,.d.:s
X                      ,\5: :W:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIVIN   t -AVb
-26-         co  o  Iroining-CerterV.t.o f r  ,  o,in-C dn  T'od,s  OidnN 'A,M
24'       A   Vocotmonol Instrvctor Tro,ning Cente, BAidieg Tiodes
Momn Roads
Aopprosmmote Goseroorote  voundories             a1i
Int-. ltrtnoI Boundore.s
a AR     Rivers              K.R-B- OF  20  40  60 i0 .-
APRASA         REPORT, a, ,i ,,  ;I ----------.- --
OF FIRSIA EDUCA    N          0.lS0      - -    0
-/                . 5M.      -r'0c
ARABSREP  SB;AUDI ARABIA
<~~~~~~(                                          AOm
I SUDhrrgo                                                K Nr ,
O  Comprehensive Schools                   \~~~~~~~~~32



