Report No. 1285-EGT                                                                   FILE  COPY
Appraisal of an Education Project
in the Arab Republic of Egypt
January 28, 1977
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)        =        US$ 2.56 or SDR 2.12
1 US Dollar                  =        LE 0.39
Parallel Market Rate (from December 1, 1976)
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)        =         US$ 1.43
1 US Dollar                  =         LE 0.70
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare                    =           2.38 feddans
1 feddan                     =           1.04 acres
1 acre                       =           0.96 feddans
1 sq. kilometer              =         238.00 feddans
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..     ..............................    i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION  . .............   ................ *..1......... 
II.   COUNTRY BACKGROUND ...................................        2
Physical Environment and Population ., n..............        2
Economic Development ....................................     2
Employment ...... ....................................        2
The Labor Force .......     ..........................        3
Future Manpower Supply and Demand   ....................      4
III.   EDUCATION AND MANPOWER TRAINING ......................        6
The Present System ...................................        6
Educational Development Strategy .....................        7
Education  Costs   ......... ..  .  .     .....................................  9
IV. THE PROJECT  ........ ..11
Lower and Upper Secondary Comprehensive Schools              12
Technician Training Schools            .12
Technician Training Institutes .13
Technical Teacher Training School .14
Vocational Training Centers - Industrial Trades              14
Vocational Training Centers - Construction Trades            15
Educational Planning Studies                 .    .15
Pre-Investment Engineering Designs      .     .17
Technical Assistance ..... ......     .. .       .17
Cost of the Project ..                .................      19
Financial Plan ......  ......0........                       20
Implementation ...........        ..21
Sites ... ..                                                 22
Procurement . ............ ............. .. ...................  22
Disbursements .......     .................................  22
V.   BENEFITS AND RISKS ......... . . . . .. . . .  ..................    ....... .  23
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   ................      24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. The Education and Training System
Chart 1 - Organization Chart, Ministry of Higher Education, 1976
Chart 2 - Organization Chart, Ministry of Education, 1976
Chart 3 - Structure of the Formal Education System, 1974/75
Chart 4 - Education Pyramid 1975/76
3. Employment by Economic Sector
4. Education Status of Labor Force, 1972
5. Employment in Major Sectors of Public Manufacturing Industry, 1974
6. Enrollment Growth in Formal Education 1970-75
7. Actual and Projected Enrollments 1974-81, Formal Education System
8. Additional Teacher Requirements in Technical Schools and Technician
Training Institutes, 1975/76 - 1980/81
9. Government Expenditure on Education 1970-76
10. Public Recurrent Education Expenditure and Unit Costs by Level
of Education, 1973 and 1976
11. Public Capital Expenditure on Education by Level of Education,
1973 and 1976
12. Projection of Public Recurrent Education Expenditure, 1981
13. Enrollments, Outputs, Pupil/Teacher Ratios and Use Factors in
Project Institutions
14. Technician Training Specializations in Project Institutions
15. MOIMR--Enrollments and Outputs of Project Training Centers
(Industrial Trades)
16. MOHAR--Enrollments and Outputs of Project Training Centers
(Construction Trades)
17. Schedule for Technical Assistance
18. Planning Studies
19. Project Costs by Type of Expenditure
20. Units Costs and Areas per Student
21. Contingency Allowances
22. Implementation Schedule
23. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
MAP



GLOSSARY
MOAG :          Ministry of Agriculture
MOE  :          Ministry of Education
MOHAR:          Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction
MOHE :          Ministry of Higher Education
MOIMR:          Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources
MOP  :          Ministry of Planning
PTTC :          Primary Teacher Training College
TTTC :          Technical Teacher Training College
TTTS :          Technical Teacher Training School






EGYPT
BASIC DATA (1974) /1
Total Population                                        36.4 million (mid-1974,
estimated)
Current Rate of Population Growth                        2.5% p.a.
Per Capita GNP (1975)                               US$310 /2
Literacy Rate (1974/75)                                 40%
Primary School Enrollment as a                               3
Percentage of Age Group 6-11                          74%  -
Lower Secondary School Enrollment as a                       /3
Percentage of Age Group 12-14                         48%  -
Upper Secondary School Enrollment as a                      /3
Percentage of Age Group 15-17                         31%
Higher Education Enrollment as a                             /3
Percentage of Age Group 18-22                         11%  -
Central Government Expenditures on                      25.8% recurrent
Education as a Percentage of Total                     5.0% capital
Government Expenditures (1975)                        16.6% total
Central Government Expenditures on
Education as a Percentage of GDP (1975)                5.5%
/1 See Annexes 1 and 2 for comparative educational data and a detailed
description of the present education and training system.
/2 World Bank Atlas.
/3 Gross enrollment ratios.






SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        To accelerate the country's economic growth, the Arab Republic
of Egypt initiated in 1974 a new economic policy designed to promote rapid
growth through liberalization of the economy, decentralization of decision
making, and incentives for private domestic and foreign investments. The
modernization of the system of production, one of the keystones of this
policy, will require large increases in the supply of commercial and indus-
trial technicians and skilled workers.
ii.       The present education system is ill-adapted to meet this demand for
trained manpower. Reflecting the imbalances in the relative sizes of the
various levels and types of education in favor of academic education, the
nation has an over-supply of general secondary school leavers and university
graduates and a serious shortage of middle level technicians, commercial and
management personnel and skilled workers. Aware of this condition, the gov-
ernment has requested IDA financing for a project which would (i) expand,
diversify and upgrade the training of technicians, skilled and semi-skilled
workers; (ii) introduce comprehensive preparatory and secondary schooling,
on a pilot basis, to provide more instruction in practical courses; (iii)
increase and upgrade the training of technical teachers and workshop in-
structors; and (iv) improve educational and manpower planning.
iii.      Accordingly, this project would include the following items:
(a) Construction, furniture, equipment and technical assistance
for:
-    20 building trades vocational training centers
-     3 building trades instructor training centers
-     2 technician training institutes
(b) Furniture and/or equipment and technical assistance for:
-     1 lower secondary and 2 upper secondary comprehensive
pilot schools
-     4 technician training schools
-     3 technician training institutes
-     1 technical teacher training school
-    10 industrial vocational training centers
-     1 industrial instructor training center
(c) Pre-investment engineering design and/or technical assistance
for:
-    3 lower secondary and 2 upper secondary comprehensive
pilot schools
-    3 primary teacher training colleges
-    6 technician training schools
-    4 technician training institutes
-    5 industrial vocational training centers; and
(d) Technical assistance for educational planning studies.



- ii -
iv.       The project's annual output of 17,000 semi-skilled building trades
workers would help satisfy the urgent demand for housing, the modernization
and expansion of infrastructure, and rehabilitation activities throughout the
country.  ^  i lnally, the project would enable 6,400 technicians and in-
structors, and 2,300 skilled industrial workers to enter the labor market
annually with increased levels and ranges of skills resulting from improve-
ments in existing curricula, introduction of new disciplines, provision of
modern and more appropriate instructional equipment, and the training to be
provided to selected members of the teaching and administrative staffs of the
project institutions. The project's pre-investment designs of additional (a)
comprehensive lower and upper secondary schools and primary teacher training
colleges (combined 7,200 new student places) and (b) vocational/technical
training institutions (combined 23,800 new student places) would permit early
action, through either a possible second World Bank education project or
other financing, to improve further the quality of the formal education system
and to increase further the output of technically trained personnel required
by the economy.
v.        The various project items are under the administration of the Min-
istries of Education, Higher Education, Industry and Mineral Resources, and
Housing and Reconstruction. As each ministry's project items are independent
of the other ministries' items, they may be implemented separately. There-
fore, to simplify project management and to place responsibility for project
implementation directly on each beneficiary, each Ministry (all of which have
a well-established machinery for building construction and equipment procure-
ment) would be responsible for the implementation of its own project items.
The staff required to supervise project implementation has already been
appointed in each Ministry.
vi.       Detailed lists and specifications of furniture and equipment would
be presented to the Association for review and approval prior to procurement.
Equipment and furniture items for procurement would be grouped, to the extent
possible, in large packages to permit bulk procurement. Contracts for equip-
ment would be awarded in accordance with Association guidelines on the basis
of international competitive bidding, except for equipment items which can
only be grouped in small packages (under US$50,000), items which must be com-
patible with other equipment procured under ICB and items of such specialized
nature that ICB would not be practical. These items, which would not exceed
an aggregate total of 20% of the total cost of each ministry's equipment items
(or US$4.4 million for total project), would be procured under normal govern-
ment procurement procedures, which are satisfactory to the Association, and
would include price quotations from at least three manufacturers or suppliers.
Because of the small amount of furniture in the project and level of develop-
ment of the local furniture manufacturers and suppliers, furniture would be
procured under local competitive bidding. For the purpose of comparing
foreign and local bids, local manufacturers of equipment and furniture would
be allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of custom duties
applicable to competing imports or 15% of CIF price, whichever is lower. All
civil works contracts would be government financed and would be awarded under
government procedures.



- :iii -
vii.      The total project cost is estimated at US$54.2 million with a for-
eign exchange component of US$32.3 million. The project is suitable as a
basis for an IDA Credit of US$25.0 million which would finance 78% of the
total estimated foreign exchange component, with the balance of the foreign
exchange (ongoing civil works and purchase of school buildings) to be financed
by the government.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      A Bank mission visited Egypt in March-April, 1975 to investigate
the needs of the education and training system and to identify project items
suitable for Bank Group financing. Its recommendations were discussed with
the Egyptian Government in November 1975. On the basis of these discussions,
the Egyptian Government submitted a project in early 1976 which was appraised
in March-April 1976 by a mission comprising Messrs. C.P. van Dijk (mission
leader/economist, consultant), W.W. Hobbs (technical educator), J. McCabe
(general educator), J.C. Jones (vocational training specialist, consultant)
and A.E. Vincent (architect, consultant).
1.02      The project proposed by the government included equipment and tech-
nical assistance for two comprehensive upper secondary schools; four techni-
cian training schools (grades 10-14); five technician training institutes
(grades 13-14); ten industrial trades vocational training centers; forty
construction trades vocational training centers; one industrial trades and
three construction trades instructor training centers; a second group of
project items was also proposed including three primary teacher training
colleges, three comprehensive secondary schools, six technician training
schools, five technician training institutes and five industrial trades
vocational training centers. The first group consisted of items in such an
advanced stage of preparation that procurement could start before or imme-
diately after credit negotiations. To avoid undue delays in disbursements for
the second group, it was agreed with the government that only the financing of
the pre-investment studies would be included in this project. Construction
and equipping of this group might be included within a later project.
1.03      The project was further modified during appraisal as follows:
(i) The experimental comprehensive schools proposed in this
project would consist of both the lower and upper secondary
levels in order to permit introduction of the reform of
secondary education in both cycles.
(ii)  Due to inadequate location planning or unsuitability of
proposed buildings, consideration of two of the proposed
comprehensive schools was deferred.
(iii) Equipment for a technical teacher training school was added
because of the importance of this institution as a source of
instructors for other project institutions.
(iv)  To improve educational planning and prepare for possible
future Bank lending, pre-investment studies in secondary
level teacher education, school mapping, and norms and
standards for educational buildings were added.
(v) The number of construction training centers was reduced
from 40 to 20 because of insufficient manpower data to
justify the larger number.



-2-
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
Physical Environment and Population
2.01      The Arab Republic of Egypt has a land area of one million square
kilometers but only four percent is arable land, limited to the narrow Nile
valley and the delta. In 1974 the population was about 36.4 million and was
increasing at an annual rate of 2.5%. With a population density of over
1,000 per square kilometer of inhabited area, Egypt is one of the more densely
populated countries of the world. Forty-two percent of the population is
under 15 years of age, which places a heavy burden on the educational system
and the family wage earner.
Economic Development
2.02      Since 1974 the Egyptian government has been pursuing a policy de-
signed to accelerate economic growth as a prerequisite for the modernization
of Egyptian society. To realize the country's promising growth potential,
the government has initiated a new economic strategy characterized by liberal-
ization and modernization of a hitherto rigidly centralized economy. Measures
are being taken to de-control the economy, decentralize decision making,
stimulate private domestic and foreign investments and allow foreign and
domestic market competition to play a more important role.
2.03      Government plans call for rapid industrialization with a substantial
increase in the value of industrial output over the next 25 years. Of primary
importance will be the development and exploitation of the country's mineral
resources and related industries (oil, phosphates, petrochemicals, fertilizers
and building materials), new power development, land reclamation and irriga-
tion, exploitation of the Suez Canal potential and tourism. Rapid develop-
ments in these fields will require a modernization and extension of the
country's infrastructure (ports, transportation, telecommunications), and
will provide an impetus to other important industries (building construction,
chemicals, food processing, textiles, mechanical industries, electricity and
electronics, shipbuilding and repair).
Employment
2.04      Total employment, estimated at 9.3 million in 1975, has grown
at a rate of about 2.3% p.a. since 1967/68 during which time agriculture's
share has dropped from 50% to 45%, other commodity sectors (mainly industry)
have increased from 14% to 18%, and the distribution and service sectors
increased slightly (Annex 3).
2.05      Open unemployment is probably small (according to a recent survey,
registered unemployment was less than 2%) but underemployment and low produc-
tivity employment, as well as seasonal unemployment in rural areas, are re-
ported to be significant. Urban underemployment is accentuated by the drift
of unskilled rural labor into the towns. Because the share of agricultural



-3-
employment is likely to continue to decline and the modernization and indus-
trialization of the urban sector will require increasingly higher skill
levels, this drift presents a major challenge to the country's vocational
training system.
2.06      Urban employment is eased somewhat by the emigration of Egyptian
workers, especially to neighboring Arab countries. This emigration is sti-
mulated by much higher salaries which attract educated and skilled personnel
from categories which are in excess supply as well as in great scarcity in
Egypt. The absence of statistics on the number and skill level of emigrants
makes it difficult to determine the net economic effects of the outflow and
to predict the effects of a possible decline (or future return flow) in the
number of migrants. Employment of Egyptian workers abroad, therefore, con-
stitutes a major element of uncertainty in manpower planning.
2.07      The problem is further complicated by the government policy of auto-
matically providing jobs in the public sector, regardless of its needs, to all
university graduates unable to find employment elsewhere. This not only con-
tributes to considerable overstaffing and consequent underemployment, but also
rewards students' preferences for university education and their bias against
middle-level technical careers.
The Labor Force
2.08      The present composition of the labor force is ill-suited to imple-
ment the new economic policy (paras. 2.02 and 2.03). According to a 1972
sample survey, nearly 61% of the total labor force was illiterate and another
25% only able to read and write; a very low 1.4% of the labor force had post-
secondary technician level education but a surprisingly high 3.6% had a
university or post-graduate degree (Annex 4). A more recent survey of public
manulacturing companies showed that 6.1% were employed in professional and
managerial positions, 3.7% were technicians, 27.5% supervisors and skilled
workers, whereas 55.6% were classified as semi-skilled and unskilled workers
(Annex 5). In the building industry, only 42,000 workers, or 10% of total
employment, are considered to be skilled.
2.09      The relative abundance of university trained staff and the very low
proportion of technicians and skilled craftsmen, reflected in the above per-
centages, represent the major imbalance in the Egyptian labor force which
must be corrected if present economic targets are to be achieved. A mass of
well-educated but largely unemployable and unproductive personnel is burden-
ing the public sector (para. 2.07) while crucial needs for adequately trained
middle-level technical, commercial and managerial personnel in many sectors of
the economy remain unfulfilled.
2.10      The shortage of skilled craftsmen and technicians is so severe
that it seriously affects the expansion plans of both the public and private
sector. The imbalance between supply and demand is also reflected in wage
levels, with skilled craftsmen earning much higher salaries than typical
university graduates.



-4-
2.11      The existing disequilibrium is likely to become more serious as
a result of the present distribution of enrollments among the various levels
and types of education (Annex 7). With over 300,000 students in university
education in 1975/76 (a number which is still rapidly growing), the annual
output of graduates is soon likely to exceed 50,000. In contrast, the train-
ing of middle-level technicians is insufficient with only 31,000 students
enrolled in post-secondary industrial and commercial courses with an annual
output of about 9,000. The training of skilled workers appears to be quan-
titatively developed if the secondary technical school enrollments (370,000
students in 1975/76) are included. Of these, however, only 98,000 were in
industrial courses. Moreover, the effectiveness of skill training in these
schools is so low that many of the students are unable to obtain technical
jobs upon graduation in spite of the increasing shortages.
Future Manpower Supply and Demand
2.12      In the absence of an up-to-date manpower study, no precise estimates
of future manpower supply and demand by economic sector and specialization
can be presented. The following conservative global estimates of future needs
(derived from earlier manpower studies and various government estimates), com-
pared with the anticipated outputs of training programs, however, establish
an order of magnitude of foreseeable shortages. The manpower demand figures
represent the additional numbers required for expansion of various sectors
and for the replacement of a portion of the existing stock because of death
and retirement. They do not, however, include an allowance for emigration,
which may diminish within this period. About half of the skilled construc-
tion workers would be required by the massive reconstruction and development
efforts planned for the Suez Canal Zone.



-5-
Manpower Supply and Demand 1976-1986
(in thousands of workers)
Additional
Manpower   -----Projected Output 1976-86-------
Demands    existing  planned  total    of which   Surplus +
1976-86      output    output  output   project   Shortage -
Technicians
Industrial            200         40         62      102         16        - 98
Commercial            400          50        78      128         19        -272
Total               600         90        140      230         35        -370
Skilled Crafts-
men
Construction           200        25        204 /1  229         136        + 29
Public in-
dustry               400)
Private in-               )       50 /2       16 /2   66 /2      24
dustry               300)                                                 -334
)      250 /3    150 /3  400 /3         -
Other sectors          100)
Total             1,000        325        370      695        160       -305
/1   As presently planned by Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction, but to
be adjusted as required by the actual growth of demand.
/2   Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources vocational training centers.
/3   Ministry of Education secondary industrial schools.
2.13      By their nature, the above figures do not reveal the urgent needs
for qualitative improvement and diversification of training programs. Most
existing institutions need re-equipping to attain training standards geared to
modern industrial practices. In addition to the existing specializations, new
programs need to be developed to meet the needs of the petroleum and petro-
chemical, food processing, textile, electricity and electronics, refrigeration
and air-conditioning, and shipbuilding industries. To determine more precisely
the need for such new training programs and to obtain a more reliable data
base on which to plan a more closely coordinated development of the education
and training system with the developing economy, the government has already
initiated some studies and has provided an assurance that, with the assistance
of consultants to be provided under the project (paragraph 4.24 and Annex 17),
it would take the necessary action to obtain, within two and one-half years
from Credit signing, detailed data on the current and projected needs for
trained personnel in each sector of the economy over the next ten years.



-6-
III. EDUCATION AND MANPOWER TRAINING
The Present System
3.01      Administration.  The Ministries of Education and Higher Education
were placed in 1976 under one Minister responsible for public and private
non-university education at all levels. Much administrative authority over
the schools system has, however, been delegated to the 36 provincial educa-
tional directorates. Private education is declining in size relative to
public education, but is still significant; in 1975, it accounted for about
20% and 15% of secondary education and university enrollments, respectively.
The Ministries of Agriculture, Health, Housing and Reconstruction, Industries
and Mineral Resources, Manpower, and Social Affairs are responsible for much
of the training in their respective fields.
3.02      Structure.  Annex 2, chart 3 depicts the structure of the education
system. Six years of compulsory primary education (grades 1-6) are followed
by three years of lower secondary (grades 7-9) and three years of upper sec-
ondary education (grades 10-12). The upper secondary level consists of gen-
eral secondary schools preparing for higher education and technical secondary
schools (industrial, commercial and agricultural) leading to direct employment.
Several of the industrial secondary schools are being converted into five-year
technician training programs (grades 10-14). Technicians are also trained at
post-secondary levels in two-year technical institutes (grades 13-14). Degree
courses are offered in Higher Technical Institutes with four or five year
programs and universities with four to six year programs.
3.03      Except for technician training, the education system is well devel-
oped quantitatively (Annexes 6 and 7). Primary school enrollments represent
74% of the relevant age group, and preparatory and secondary enrollments, 48%
and 31%, respectively. Much of the increase in enrollments has occurred in
recent years, during the period 1970 through 1974, when primary, preparatory
and general secondary school enrollments each increased by 28% (Annex 6), and
technician training increased by 81% from a base of 16,000 students. By con-
trast, university enrollments increased by 38% from a base of 218,000 over
the same period.
3.04      The progress achieved is remarkable in view of the country's scarce
resources. Much credit is due to the nearly 200,000 teachers, instructors,
professors and administrators, who, working at very low salaries and often
under difficult conditions, have enabled the education system to attain its
present level of development.
Educational Development Strategy
3.05      The strategy for educational development rests largely on the
National Work Programme of 1971, issued by the Ministry of Planning, which
provided a framework for educational policy for the period 1971-80. The
major policy objectives include:



-7-
(i) To enroll all children of compulsory school age and to
raise the school leaving age to age 15 by 1980/81. The
achievement of these goals is unlikely to be realized
given the existing gross enrollment ratio of 74% for
primary education, the high repeater rates, the probable
continuing shortage of teachers and the lack of adequate
accommodations.
(ii) To improve the quality and relevance of education. As a
prelude to reform of middle-level education, pre-vocational
courses would be enlarged and diversified in a number of
experimental schools to reorient the curriculum from its
present over-emphasis on literary subjects. Such courses
would better prepare students to make a more informed
choice among available options at the upper secondary
level or to proceed to vocational training and/or to em-
ployment. At the upper secondary level, beginning in 1978,
general and technical education would be merged in two expe-
rimental comprehensive schools, which would offer a broad range
of academic and practical options to all students. It is
anticipated that exposure to practical courses within a com-
prehensive secondary school curriculum will help remove the
stigma from technical education, encourage students to pursue
technical careers, and thereby provide a larger supply of
graduates for middle and higher level technical positions.
(iii) To adjust education and training to better meet manpower
needs. The government plans to increase enrollments in
secondary industrial, agricultural, and commercial schools
at an annual rate of 10% through 1980/81. At the same time,
the general secondary enrollments would be limited through
entrance examination to an annual growth of only 2% (Annex 7).
However, even if this limitation on access to general secondary
education was possible, it can be expected that the generally
poor reputation of the industrial courses due to inadequate
accommodations and equipment, and the shortage of qualified
instructors will remain as a major problem in attaining this
goal. The goal of increasing technician training enrollments
in the five-year (grades 10-14) and two-year (grades 13-14)
institutions from 34,500 in 1975/76 to 73,500 in 1980/81
(Annex 7) is more likely to be attained.
(iv) To expand and improve the skilled labor force by increasing
the annual output of industrial trade training centers from
5,100 in 1976 to 8,600 in 1980, establish five new centers
with a total annual output capacity of 1,400 by 1984 (the
project would include financing of engineering designs of
these centers), and increase the output of the building trades
training centers from 1,800 in 1975/76 to 56,000 in 1980/81.
In view of the serious shortage of skilled industrial workers



-8-
(para. 2.12), the projected growth of training capacity seems
modest and far below the needs of the industry. In contrast,
the planned expansion of skilled workers training for the
construction industry could exceed manpower requirements and
may need adjustment when more exact manpower data become
available.
(v)  To improve and expand adult literacy training.  Despite the
enactment of a law in 1970 requiring various ministries and
agencies to organize literacy programs and the establishment
in 1972 of a Council for Adult Education and Literacy, little
progress has been made due to the severe lack of resources.
The main effort will be concentrated on the provision of
universal primary education to assure the literacy of future
adult generations.
(vi)  To improve and expand primary teacher training.  To help
attain the goal of universal primary education [(i) above],
the government plans to increase the annual output of exist-
ing primary teacher training colleges from 6,600 in 1975/76
to 7,000 in 1980/81 (Annex 2). Despite this increase, a
shortfall of trained teachers is projected. To help meet
this shortfall and to upgrade the 20,000 current teachers not
fully qualified, short intensive pre-service and continuing
in-service pedagogical courses will begin in 1976/77 (precise
figures on enrollments and outputs have not yet been decided).
Additionally, three new teacher training colleges (the proposed
project would include financing for their engineering designs)
with a combined annual output of about 500 teachers by 1985
will supply part of the additional needs. A much greater
effort, however, will be necessary to improve existing train-
ing colleges and meet the increasing demand for teachers
associated with population growth, increased participation
and the need to reduce the high pupil/teacher ratios.
3.06      The above measures, if implemented, should significantly correct
present imbalances and improve the quality of the education system. But
they are not enough. More attention needs to be given to planning and pro-
gramming, and to establishing procedures to ensure that efforts by various
Ministries involved in education and training will be closely coordinated
and synchronized within a comprehensive educational development strategy.
At present, the operational directorates of the Ministries of Education
and Higher Education appear to prepare their own programs in an ad-hoc
manner with little, if any, coordination. Distinct from them, the univer-
sities are pursuing their own individual courses, largely unknown in the
ministries and often needlessly duplicating the programs of other univer-
sities. Because the planning and programming problems are related more
to the training, experience and tradition of the planning personnel than
to organizational structures, they are difficult to solve. However, the
government is aware that this is a priority area for action and, during
negotiations, specifically discussed and agreed was the need for (i) the



Ministries of Education and Higher Education to closely coordinate their
technician training programs; (ii) the Ministry of Education and the
Technological University of Helwan to coordinate their technical teacher/
instructor training programs so as to produce the desired numbers and levels
of technical teachers and workshop instructors in the required specialties;
(iii) the Ministries of Education and Industry to develop such coordination
in post-preparatory skilled worker training as will best fulfill the country's
manpower needs; and (iv) the Ministry of Education to coordinate planning of
primary teacher training, particularly in the context of the decentralization
of educational authority. The government confirmed that they would set up an
appropriate Interministerial Committee to bring about the desired coordination
of programming as an integral part of the education development strategy and
for the translation of national manpower needs data (to be developed under the
project) into education targets. A program of technical assistance financed
by the project (paragraph 4.24 and Annex 17) would assist the government in
this endeavor.
Education Costs
3.07      The recurrent costs of public education have increased significantly
over the last six years (Annex 9). In 1970/71, education accounted for LE 130
million or 21% of total recurrent expenditure; in 1976 the amount had increased
to LE 280 million or some 26% of the budget. Unit costs per student are not
high, but show marked discrepancies between levels and streams (Annex 10).
The unit costs of primary, preparatory and commercial secondary education are
low due to high pupil/teacher ratios, low staff salaries and virtual absence
of teaching materials. By international standards, teachers' salaries are
low. The share of non-personnel expenses in the school budget, including
technical education is even lower, reflecting a shortage of materials, books
and supplies. On the other hand, education efficiency is generally low and
so are teaching loads (Annex 2).
3.08      The government development objectives, outlined earlier in this
chapter, would require that the annual recurrent budgets of the Ministries
of Education and Higher Education, the universities and the training depart-
ments of the Ministries of Industries and Mineral Resources, and Housing and
Reconstruction increase from LE 280 million in 1976 to LE 420 million by 1981
or at a rate of over 8.4% p.a. in constant prices (Annex 12). Assuming that
national income will grow at an average rate of 6.5% p.a., public expenditures
on education would increase from about 5.5% of GDP at present to an estimated
7.0% - 7.5% in 1981 (depending on the effectiveness of measures taken to im-
prove education efficiency and reduce underemployment of teachers), which is
high and yet is comparable to other countries in the region at similar stages
of development. The share of education in the budget is more difficult to
predict, but could be in the 25% - 29% range, which is also high but not out
of line with comparable countries.
3.09      In view of the high priority assigned to manpower training, it is
expected that the Government will finance this expansion. If the increase
should exceed available resources, the expansion of preparatory and technical
secondary education probably would be slowed, and needed improvements in
school equipment, supplies and books probably would again be delayed.



- 10 -
3.10      To help solve existing financial problems and anticipate future
discrepancies between resources and needs, the government plans to explore
new sources of assistance. Evidence exists that industry, as chief bene-
ficiary, is willing to contribute towards the cost of training technicians
and skilled craftsmen. At present, this potential source is hardly tapped.
The government intends that the various forms in which these resources could
be mobilized (contribution of staff and equipment, participation in appren-
ticeship schemes, sandwich courses, payroll taxes, etc.) be explored and
that cooperative schemes be developed.



- 11 -
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01         The project would  comprise  the following components:
-        Total Capacity             Annual
Type of Institution                        Grade        Existing         New         Output
A. Construction, Furniture, Equipment
and Related Technical Assistance:
20 Vocational Training Centers-
Building Trades                  Ungraded        -             6,000       17,000
3 Instructor Training Centers-
Building Trades                    > 12          -               600          600
2 Technician Training Ins-                                             1/
titutes                           13-14          -             6,000-       2,400
B. Furniture and/or Equipment and
Related Technical Assistance:
1 Comprehensive Lower Secon-                                          21
dary School                        7-9             480           480          320
2 Comprehensive Upper Secon-
dary Schools                      10-12          2,160         -               720
4 Technician Training Schools       10-14          4,200         -               800
3 Technician Training Ins-                               1
titutes                           13-14          5,400-'       -            2,160
1 Technical Teacher Training
School                            10-14          1,500         -              280
10 Vocational Training Centers-
Industrial                         > 9           8,570         -            2,325
1 Instructor Training Center-
Industrial                         >12             200                        200
C. Pre-Investment Studies:
3 Comprehensive Lower Secondary
School_3/                          7-9           -             2,880          960
2 Comprehensive Upper Secondary
School3!                          10-12          -             2,160          720
3 Primary Teacher Training
Colleges2/                   3/   10-14          -             2,160          432
6 Technician Training Schools-    10-14            -             6,600        1,100
4 Technician Training Ins- .                                           1/
titutes4/                         13-14          -            12,000-       4,800
5 Vocational Training Centers-
IndustrialY/                        > 9          -             5,200        1,415
D. Educational Planning Studies:
Second-Level Teacher Training
School Mapping
Norms and Standards for Educational Buildings
Further Development of Educational Strategy
Further Development of Manpower Needs Study
1/ Includes scheduled evening class enrollments.
Preparation of architectural designs only.
3/ Includes preparation of architectural designs, curricula and equipment lists.
7/ Includes preparation of curricula and equipment lists only.



- 12 -
Lower and Upper Secondary Comprehensive Schools (MOE)
4.02      This project item would consist of the equipping of one lower
secondary and two upper secondary schools already in existence to serve
as experimental pilot schools for the introduction of curriculum reforms.
These schools together with the three lower and two upper secondary compre-
hensive schools included in the pre-investment studies (para. 4.23) would
provide an adequate sample for experimentation in four different socio-
economic regions.
4.03      Instruction in practical subjects in the comprehensive lower second-
ary school would be reoriented from the present 4-5 hours/week of a rather
theoretical instruction to 6.5 hours/week of practical work. Practical sub-
jects would thus comprise about 20% of the total time and would be designed
to acquaint students with practical work to help them to discover whether they
have an interest and aptitude for such work. Modern instructional equipment
would be provided at appropriate levels for workshops, science laboratories,
art, technical drawing and home economics rooms.
4.04      The comprehensive upper secondary schools would have a common first
year curriculum with options of language and humanities, science and mathe-
matics, industry, or commerce in the last two years. Curricula are being
designed with the assistance of the local staff in teacher training colleges
who are knowledgeable about comprehensive curricula requirements. The curri-
cula will prepare students to continue their studies in either universities
or post-secondary technical institutes or to gain employment and benefit from
further training on-the-job. It is anticipated that workshops would also be
utilized in the evening for adult training. To provide for continuing eval-
uation of the new schools, the government has provided an assurance that,
within 18 months of the Credit Agreement date, a program would be developed
in consultation with the Association which would evaluate students' atti-
tudes, backgrounds and achievements in theoretical and practical studies
while in school and their job placement and performance after graduation.
4.05      Only 39 teachers will be required for the new options and they can
be selected easily from qualified teachers in secondary technical, commercial
and agricultural schools.
Technician Training Schools (MOE)
4.06      To help meet the urgent need for industrial technicians (paras.
2.09-2.11), the project would assist in expanding a new system of technician
training (successfully initiated in 1970 with bilateral assistance), by the
provision of equipment and technical assistance for the conversion of four
existing three-year technical trade schools into five-year technician training
schools (grades 10-14). The project schools, located in industrial and agri-
cultural areas, will produce about 800 technicians annually by 1983 in the
new fields of food processing and textiles, and in the mechanical, electrical
and electronic fields (Annexes 13 and 14). Evening classes for upgrading
employed workers will also be conducted.



- 13 -
4.07      Curricula for the mechanical, electrical and electronics courses
have already been developed with bilateral assistance and textile curricula
have been completed with the aid of industry. The food technology curriculum
is being developed with local expertise, but some assistance may be required
for the development of the syllabi for the advanced applied classes and
laboratory/shop exercises taught in the last three years of the course; if
so, an appropriate expert would be employed for two or three months under
the technical assistance program. To assure a proper balance of theory and
practice, an average of about one-third of the total hours of instruction
will be allotted to laboratory and/or shopwork in all of the above programs.
Additional practical experience will be obtained in industry in a mandatory
school program which includes an average of 210 hours in a related industry
during each summer vacation. To assure the continuing relevance of the
instructional program in the technician training schools to the needs of
business and industry, the government has provided an assurance that advisory
committees would be formed and become operational in each school by the
opening date of classes. These committees would comprise representatives of
industry, commerce and government and would meet at least once each year to
review the relevance of the training programs to the changing manpower needs
of each sector and to propose the necessary changes. The government has also
provided an assurance that a follow-up system to trace graduate placement and
performance would be developed and would become operational by the time the
first class graduates in 1983.
4.08      The 68 additional technical teachers and laboratory/workshop instruc-
tors required will be provided without difficulty by the Technical Teacher
Training School at Kobba (para. 4.12), the Technical Teacher Training College
(Mataria) of the Technological University of Helwan and from selected engi-
neers and technicians in industry.
Technician Training Institutes (MOHE)
4.09      The project would provide financing of equipment for three existing
two-year post-secondary (grades 13-14) technical institutes, equipment and
furniture for two new institutes which the government is currently construct-
ing, and technical assistance for all of them. The institutes, which would
offer new or revised curricula covering a broad range of business and indus-
trial technologies (Annex 14), would have an annual output of 4,560 by 1980,
which would assist in alleviating the increasing shortages of these types of
specialists. The institutes are located in industrially and commercially
developed regions which would enable students and faculty to maintain close
contact with commerce and industry regarding the relevance of instructional
programs and the placement of graduates. To assure a continuing exchange of
information between these groups, the government has provided an assurance
that an advisory committee consisting of representatives of industry, commerce
and government would be organized and operational in each institution by the
opening date of classes. The government has also provided an assurance that
a follow-up system to trace graduate placement and performance would be
developed and would become operational by the time the first class graduates.



- 14 -
4.10      About 60% of the total enrollment would be in business and 40% in
industrial courses. An average of 40% of the total hours of instruction would
be allotted to laboratory and/or workshop activities. Curricula for the busi-
ness corirses are being revised in cooperation with industry and commerce. The
curricula for the industrial courses are being developed with the help of
technical assistance for which retroactive financing would be provided by the
project (para. 4.24 and Annex 17).
4.11      The 186 additional instructors required can be easily recruited from
the ample outputs of the Technical Teacher Training College at Mataria, the
Technical Teacher Training School at Kobba, and from selected personnel from
universities, industry and commerce on a part-time basis.
Technical Teacher Training School (MOE)
4.12      The Technical Teacher Training School at Kobba (grades 10-14), es-
tablished with UNDP assistance in 1975, is lacking in basic equipment. The
school will reach its peak enrollment of about 1,500 and graduate its first
class of about 280 instructors in 1979. This school is one of the two insti-
tutional sources of trained technical teachers (para. 4.08) and therefore is
essential to the future technical teacher supply of project and other planned
institutions. The project would finance the purchase of much needed instruc-
tional equipment for the mechanical, electrical, electronics, automotive and
instrumentation courses.
Vocational Training Centers--Industrial Trades (MOIMR)
4.13      To help improve the quality of training for skilled industrial
workers, the project would include the financing of additional equipment and
the replacement of old equipment in ten existing vocational training centers
and in one instructor training center operated by the Ministry of Industry
and Mineral Resources.
4.14      The ten centers have an enrollment capacity of 8,570 and an annual
output of about 2,320 skilled craftsmen in the air-conditioning, automotive,
electrical, metal, and printing trades (Annex 15). A first year of formal
training, with equal time allotted to theory and practice, is followed by
on-the-job apprenticeship training in selected local industries, with addi-
tional instruction in theory for two days and one day per week in the second
and third years, respectively. Curricula are appropriate for the type of
training required. Trainees must have completed preparatory school and be
over 15 years of age.
4.15      The instructor training center has a capacity of 200 trainees and
offers an appropriate one-year curricula of trade theory and practice, pedagogy
and practice teaching. Trainees must be secondary school graduates and have
a minimum of three years of trade experience.



- 15 -
Vocational Training Centers--Construction Trades (MOHAR)
4.16      The project would include the construction and equipment for 20 new
training centers and three instructor training centers, administered by the
Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction, to provide urgently needed semi-skilled
c)nstruction workers (para. 2.12).  The government is financing the purchase
ot suitable buildings in six locations and will finance the construction of
the others, which have already been designed.
4.17      By October 1979, the training centers would have an annual output
of about 17,000 semi-skilled workers (Annex 16) from three-month courses
with 90% of the training time in practical work. As the supply of graduates
begins to match industrial demand, the length of training courses would be
increased to 6 months and later to 12 months with a corresponding increase
in the level of skills. There would be no formal education entrance require-
ments, but trainees would have to be literate and at least 15 years of age.
4.18      The 600 required instructors would be recruited from industry, from
the faculty of centers presently housed in temporary facilities, and from the
early output of one of the three project instructor training centers (para.
4.19), which the government plans to have in operation by early 1977. Short-
term pre-service and in-service pedagogical training would be provided by
the instructor training centers for those skilled craftsmen recruited as
instructors and who are not required to complete the full one-year instructor
training course.
4.19      The three instructor training centers, with an annual output of 600
from one-year courses of trade theory and practice, pedagogy and practice
teaching, would be attached to craft training centers to make possible de-
monstration teaching and to provide the instructor trainees with opportunities
for observation and practice teaching. Entrance requirements would be a mini-
mum of five-year experience as a skilled craftsman in the construction
trades and the completion of secondary trade school or equivalent apprentice-
ship training. Inquiries have shown that sufficient qualified applicants
would be available. When the supply of trained instructors begins to meet
demand (Annex 16), two of the instructor training centers would be converted
to craftsmen training centers. Advanced courses for the continued upgrading
of instructors would be organized at a later date.
4.20      The project would include financing for equipment and eight months
of consultant services to develop, within the ministry's training department,
a central data bank for the collection, processing and dissemination of in-
formation related to skilled and semi-skilled manpower needs in the construc-
tion sector, training courses, student records, and follow-up of graduates.
Educational Planning Studies
4.21      The following studies of key areas of the education sector would
be conducted by the Ministry of Education staff, supported by 5 man-years
of congultant services (Annex 17) financed by the Credit.



- 16 -
(i) Second-level teacher training. In view of the expected in-
creases in enrollments and the anticipated reforms of middle-
level education, a study to assess the present and projected
teacher supply and demand and the optimum training for both
preparatory and secondary school teachers would be undertaken.
(ii) School mapping. The recent delegation of significant respon-
sibilities in educational planning to the individual gover-
norates requires the strengthening of regional planning,
including school location planning capabilities. A pilot
school mapping study covering primary, preparatory and secondary
education in a governorate to be selected by the government
would be undertaken.
(iii) Norms and standards for educational buildings. A study would
be conducted of school building space and furnishings require-
ments for schools of various levels, together with construc-
tion materials and techniques, to develop a system of national
norms and standards for school buildings which is needed to
provide more suitable school buildings at reasonable cost in
this period of rapid educational development. The findings
of this study would be utilized in the design of school build-
ings thereafter. Schools scheduled for design in the interim
would not be postponed to benefit from the study because of the
urgent need for the schools to open as early as possible and
because of the increased costs, due to inflation, which would
result from such postponement.
(iv) Manpower Needs Study. The project would provide assistance
for the further development of the study on manpower needs
currently being conducted by the government (paragraph 2.13).
(v) Educational Development Strategy. The project would provide
for experts' services to assist in the operation of the
Interministerial Committee and the further development and
coordination of educational planning and programming between
the relevant Ministries (paragraph 3.06).
4.22      The terms of reference for these planning studies, which would
constitute an integral part of consultant contracts, would be forwarded to
the Association for review and comment. Consultants would be appointed under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. The government has pro-
vided an assurance that the studies (except for the manpower study) would be
completed and their findings forwarded to the Association within 18 months
of the Credit Agreement date. The manpower study would be completed within
two and one-half years.



- 17 -
Pre-Investment Engineering Designs
4.23      The project would provide financing for six man-months of consultant
architect services to advise local architects and engineers in the design of
the following institutions for consideration within a possible future project:
(i) two new comprehensive lower secondary schools and the expansion and con-
version of an existing preparatory school into a comprehensive lower secondary
school; (ii) one new comprehensive upper secondary school and the expansion
and conversion of an existing secondary school into a comprehensive upper
secondary school; (iii) three new primary teacher training colleges with
annexed primary schools; (iv) six new technician training schools; and (v)
five new industrial vocational training centers. These architects would be
appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
Technical Assistance
4.24      As the project's expected contribution to institution building would
be at least as important as the quantitative expansion in the output of tech-
nicians and skilled workers, a substantial technical assistance component
(Annex 17) would be required. In view of the large number of new courses of
study and Egypt's absorptive capacity for technical assistance, the amount
would be both appropriate and in line with similar projects in comparable
countries. Under this program, about 60 consultants would be employed by
the four Ministries for a total of about 18 man/years to assist in:
-    development of curricula and equipment lists and specifications
for the technician training institutes;
-    initiation of new training courses in the industrial trades;
-    completion of basic equipment lists, if necessary, for the
comprehensive schools;
-    use and maintenance of instructional equipment; and
-    development of curricula and preparation of equipment lists
for the institutions included within the pre-investment
studies.
4.25      In addition, fellowships for a combined total of about 65 man-years
of overseas teaching/administrative internships would be provided for about
150 selected members of the teaching and administrative staffs of the project
institutions. The government has confirmed its intention that (a) fellowships
would be awarded sufficiently early to the six teacher trainers in the pilot
comprehensive school program to permit them to complete their training in
sufficient time to conduct an intensive three-month upgrading course in
pedagogy and in the use and maintenance of instructional equipment for the
teachers of new options in the comprehensive schools prior to the scheduled
opening of such schools in October 1978 and (b) the head instructors in the
technician training schools and institutes would return from their overseas



- 18 -
training at least six months in advance of the opening of the schools in order
to participate in a three-month program to train the other'laboratory and
workshop instructors in their respective departments in the use and mainte-
nance of new instructional equipment.
4.26      The technical assistance program, because of the large number of
consultants and fellowships, would require considerable skill in its manage-
ment, in the timely recruitment of the required consultants, and in the
arrangements to be made for the placement of the various supervisory and
teaching staffs in appropriate institutions abroad. It would be extremely
difficult and time consuming to execute by contracting on an individual or
small group basis, and probably would result in delays and wastages. More-
over, in view of the limited average duration of the required consultancies
(about four months), an exchange program with institutions capable of supply-
ing the required range of expertise and training would be highly desirable
and could result in savings in time and in travel and subsistence costs, as
more work on curricula and equipment lists could be conducted in the overseas
institution rather than in Egypt. The government has therefore provided an
assurance that not later than December 31, 1977 it would contract with
qualified educational institution(s) to provide both the experts and the
fellowship training included within the proposed technical assistance pro-
gram, on the basis of agreement(s) satisfactory to the Association.



- 19 -
Cost of Project
4.27        The estimated costs of the various project items are summarized
below: 1/
LE (Millions)             US$ (Millions)        % of Base-
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total   line Cost
Comprehensive Schools:
(1 lower and 2 upper se-
condary schools)           0.02    0.15      0.17      0.05    0.38    0.43        1.0
Teacher/Instructor Training:
Technical teacher training
school                     0.01    0.12      0.13      0.03    0.31    0.34        0.8
4'Vocational instructor
training centers            0.45    0.49      0.94      1.15    1.26    2.41        5.4
Technician Training:
4 Technician schools          0.17    1.50       1.67     0.42    3.84    4.26        9.6
5 Technician institutes       1.22    2.90      4.12      3.14    7.44   10.58       23.8
Vocational Training:
10 Training centers, in-
dustrial trades             0.13    0.86      0.99      0.33    2.20    2.53        5.7
20 Training centers, cons-
truction trades             4.55    3.78      8.33    11.64    9.66   21.30        47.9
Pre-Investm nt Engineering
Designs 2i                    0.25    0.01       0.26     0.63    0.02    0.65        1.5
Technical Assistance and        0.15    0.60       0.75     0.38    1.54    1.92         4.3
Planning Studies
Baseline Cost                   6.95   10.41    17.36    17.77   26.65   44.42    100.0
Contingencies:
Physical                      0.69    1.05       1.74     1.76    2.66    4.42       10.0
Price increase                0.93    1.16       2.09     2.37    2.96    533        11.8
Sub-total                     1.62    2.21       3.83     4.13    5.62    9.75       21.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST               8.57   12.62    21.19    21.90   32.27   54.17
1/ Estimated costs by type of expenditure are presented in Annex 19.
2/ This does not include the cost of six man/months of advisory services (para. 4.23),
which is included under "Technical Assistance and Planning Studies".



- 20 -
4.28      Estimated civil works costs for the proposed project are based
upon current school construction costs and are adjusted for regional cost
differences. Equipment and furniture cost estimates are based upon current
CIF unit prices and are adjusted upward to include local transportation and
installation. All estimates have been adjusted to reflect anticipated prices
at the time of negotiations.
4.29      The project cost includes a contingency allowance for unforeseen
physical additions or extensions of professional services equal to approxi-
mately 10% of the estimated costs of civil works, furniture, equipment and
consultant architects' fees and 10% of the estimated cost of the technical
assistance (Annex 21). Prices are expected to increase during the project
implementation period by about 13% for civil works, 7% for architects' fees,
9.5% for equipment, 10% for furniture, 7% for experts' services, 6% for
fellowships, and 11% for consultant fees for the engineering designs 1/.
Price contingencies are therefore estimated at about 11% of base line costs
plus physical contingencies.
4.30      The estimated foreign exchange component of about US$32 million,
representing about 60% of total project cost, was calculated as follows:
(i) civil works 30%; (ii) architects' fees 3%; (iii) furniture 58%; (iv)
equipment 90%; and (v) technical assistance 80%.
4.31      When fully operational, the annual recurrent costs of the project
institutions would be about LE 6.3 million, or only about 1.5% of the proj-
ected public recurrent expenditure for education in 1981 (Annex 12).
Financial Plan
4.32      The proposed IDA Credit of US$25 million would finance 46% of the
estimated total project cost and 78% of the estimated total foreign exchange
component. The government would finance the estimated foreign exchange costs
of ongoing construction, renovation or purchase of school buildings (US$7 mil-
lion equivalent) and all local costs. The distribution by categories of
expenditure would be as follows:
1/   Based upon anticipated annual prices increases of 12% for civil works;
8% for equipment and furniture; and 8% for technical assistance for
each of the two years of implementation. Because of the difficulties
in forecasting future differences, the same rates of price increases
have been applied to both foreign and local estimates.



- 21 -
Government            IDA              Total
US$                US$              US$
millions   %       millions   %      millions   %
Construction                    22.06   100           -       0       22.06   40.7
Furniture                        0.94    42          1.30    58        2.24    4.1
Equipment                        2.23    10         20.00    90       22.23   41.0
Consultant Architects            0.43   100           -       0        0.43    0.8
Technical Assistance and
Planning Studies                0.40    20          1.66    80        2.06    3.8
Pre-investment Engineer-
ing Designs                     0.73   100          -        0        0.73    1.4
Base Line Cost (includ-
ing contingencies for
price increases)               26.79    54         22.96    46       49.75   91.8
Physical Contingencies           2.38    54          2.04    46        4.42    8.2
Total Project Cost              29.17    54         25.00    46       54.17  100.0
Implementation
4.33      The proposed project items would be under the administration of the
Ministries of Education, Higher Education, Industry, and Housing. Because of
the urgent simultaneous needs of the economy for the various types of trained
manpower which the project institutions would produce, it is not recommendable
to delay any of them for inclusion in a later project. Furthermore, because
of various institutional constraints, a centralized project implementation
unit is not feasible. On the other hand, as each ministry's project items are
not dependent on the other ministry's items, they may be implemented indepen-
dently of each other. Therefore, to simplify project management and to place
responsibility for project implementation directly on each beneficiary, each
ministry (all of which have a well established machinery for building construc-
tion and equipment procurement) would be responsible for the implementation of
its own project items. Each ministry has already assigned experienced staff
(including an architect and an equipment procurement officer) to supervise
project implementation.  Because of the large amount of architectural work re-
quired for the MOE's project items, the government has agreed that additional
architects would be employed as and when needed to assist the MOE building
unit in carrying out its activities under the project.  Special care would be
taken to ensure that procurement of furniture and equipment would be closely
coordinated with construction so as to ensure that construction will be
completed when the furniture and equipment arrive and that the institutions
will be ready to open for classes on the scheduled dates.
4.34      To help assure the attainment of appropriate pedagogical improve-
ments (curricula, laboratory/workshop practice, methods of teaching, ad-
ministrative organization and procedures, etc.) necessary to complement the
improved physical facilities and equipment, the project is providing for the
development of new and improved curricula and syllabi, working internships
abroad in similar institutions for key teachers and administrators, equip-
ment use and maintenance training for all laboratory/workshop teachers, and
appropriate pre-service and in-service pedagogical preparation of teachers
for project institutions. The various ministries are in full agreement
with these innovations and are both capable and willing to implement them.



- 22 -
Sites
4.35      Sites of all project institutions to be expanded, except the Tanta
secondary school, have been identified and are adequate to accommodate the
planned expansions. Sites for the new institutions to be constructed, except
for the MOHAR vocational training centers which are in the process of being
acquired, have been acquired and are adequate. The government has provided
an assurance that all of the remaining sites would be acquired as and when
needed. The government has also confirmed that all buildings to be purchased
for use as vocational training centers would meet the space requirements
agreed upon with the Association.
Procurement
4.36      Detailed lists and specifications of furniture and equipment would
be presented to the Association for review and approval prior to procurement.
Equipmrcnt end furniture items for procurement would be grouped, to the extent
possible. i- larc-;  pickaces tc permit bulk procurement.  Contracts for equip-
ment would '.e aw rded in accordance with Association guidelines on the basis
of international competitive bidding, except for equipment items which can
only be grouped in small packages (under US$50,000), items which must be com-
patible with other equipment procured under ICB and items of such specialized
nature that ICB would not be practical. These items, which would not exceed
an aggregate total of 20% of the total cost of each ministry's equipment items
(or US$4.4 million for total project), would be procured under normal govern-
ment procurement procedures, which are satisfactory to the Association, and
would include to the extent feasible price quotations from at least three
manufacturers or suppliers. Because of the small amount of furniture in the
project furniture would be procured under local competitive bidding.
For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids, local manufacturers of
equipment and furniture would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the
existing rate of custom duties applicable to competing imports or 15% of CIF
price, whichever is lower. All civil works contracts will be government
financed and would be awarded under government procedures.
4.37      The project would be implemented over a period of about two and
one-half years after the signing of the Credit Agreement (Annex 22). Con-
struction, purchase and renovation of buildings are expected to be completed
by July 1, 1978, with one additional year allowed for guarantee and liabili-
ties. Equipment procurement is expected to begin about April 1, 1977 and
would be completed by October 1, 1978. The technical assistance program would
be completed by December 31, 1978. Final disbursements would be made and all
accounts closed within the following six months.
Disbursements (Annex 23)
4.38      Disbursements would be made on the following basis:  (i) 100% of
foreign expenditures for imported furniture and equipment; (ii) 75% of local
expenditures for furniture and equipment procured locally; (iii) 100% of



- 23 -
foreign expenditures for fellowships and expatriate consultants; and (iv) 80%
of local expenditures for local consultants. The percentages in (i), (ii) and
(iii) represent the estimated foreign exchange content of each category of
expenditures. Retroactive financing for technical assistance to prepare
curricula, course syllabi, equipment lists and specifications is proposed in
an amount not to exceed US$300,000 for expenditures incurred after September
15, 1976.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01      The main benefits of the project are expected to be the following:
(i) an improvement in educational and manpower planning through
the initiation and/or support of planning studies in key areas;
(ii) improvements in the quality and relevance of preparatory and
secondary education through the provision of instructional
equipment and experts' advice to support the development and
application of new curricula in three pilot comprehensive
secondary schools;
(iii) an increased annual output of 17,000 semi-skilled building trades
workers who are urgently required to help satisfy the rapidly
growing demand for housing, the modernization and expansion of
infrastructure, and the massive reconstruction of the Suez Canal
area;
(iv) an additional annual output of about 6,400 technicians and
instructors, and 2,300 skilled industrial workers with in-
creased level and range of skills resulting from improvements
in the existing curricula, the introduction of new disciplines,
the provision of modern and more appropriate instructional
equipment, and the training to be provided to selected members
of the teaching and administrative staffs of the project in-
stitutions; and
(v) through the project's pre-investment designs of additional
(a) comprehensive lower and upper secondary schools and pri-
mary teacher training colleges (combined 7,200 new student
places) and (b) technician training institutions (combined
23,800 new student places), a basis would be available for
early action to improve further the quality of the formal
education system and to increase further the output of tech-
nically trained personnel urgently required by the economy.
5.02      The timely provision of technical assistance is crucial for success-
ful project implementation. If such technical assistance is inadequate or
late in being obtained, project implementation is likely to suffer delays with
attendant price increases in excess of present contingency allowances.



_ 24 -
5.03      In view of the shortness of the average construction workers' train-
ing course (three months) and the length of time required to design and build
new centers, it should be possible for MOHAR to adjust readily the rate of
growth of its training program to changes in perceived needs for construction
specialists of the various types, as influenced by the output from the MOHAR
centers. Nevertheless, Association staff would have to monitor the develop-
ment of the MOHAR training system closely. The Association's views would
undoubtedly influence the extent of this system's growth, particularly as
financing of additional MOHAR centers is expected to be requested within a
possible second World Bank education project.
5.04      The degree of risk inherent in the implementation of a project of
this size and complexity is significant. Because this would be the first
IDA-financed project with which the implementation units of the various min-
istries would be associated, and despite the special attention which would be
given by Association staff to their briefing, some delays in project execution
may result from their unfamiliarity with Association procedures. Consequently,
a more than average amount of Association supervision may be required. Addi-
tionally, there is some risk that the government will have difficulty in
implementing some of its major education policy objectives and improvements
in planning (paras. 3.05 and 3.06), which are not directly project related but
which may have an indirect adverse effect on project implementation. In view
of the considerable benefits, however, the project is worth the inherent
risks.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following main
points:
(i)  the government would take appropriate measures to obtain,
within two and one-half years of the Credit Agreement date,
detailed data on each sector's current and projected needs
for trained personnel of all types and levels, for the next
ten-year period (paras. 2.13 and 4.21);
(ii)  to provide for continuing evaluation of the new comprehensive
schools, a program would be developed within 18 months after
Credit Agreement date which would evaluate students' attitudes,
backgrounds and achievements in theoretical and practical
studies while in school and their job placement and perform-
ance after graduation (para. 4.04); and
(iii)  to assure continuing relevance of the instructional programs
in the technician training schools and institutes to the needs
of business and industry, advisory committees comprising repre-
sentatives of industry, commerce and government would be formed



- 25 -
and become operational in each school by the opening date of
classes, and a follow-up system to trace graduate placement
and performance would be developed and would be operational
by the time the first class graduates (paras. 4.07 and 4.09).
6.02      The project is suitable as a basis for an IDA Credit of US$25
million to the Arab Republic of Egypt.






COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                     ANNEX I
It DECEMBER 14. 1976 I
-- -- -- -- -- - -- --  --  --  - --  --  --  --2--       - --  ---2-      - 2-   - 2     -2  2         --- -  -  --  --  --2      2 -- --  --  -    2 -- ---2-
: GNP/ I S GNP   20 TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC  i                                           iPRI. :AV.PRI.   i                I        iSEC   t
,CAPITA2 DEVDTED2PUBLIC  s EDUCATION    :LITER. I PR!. ICOMPLE-  lSTU- tSCM.TEACHIPROGRE53-l  SEC. iSTU-  t
rAT   I TO EDU.t  EXP, 2 RECURRENT    24Cr               2ENROLL2TION         IDENTSII3ALARY INIION RATE 2ENROLLIDENTSIHIG22ER:
IMARKETI  (PUBLIC,DEVOTED:EXP ALLOCATECII  RATE IRATIO IRATE FORiPER   iRELATION  iFROM PRI.tRATIO  IPER   IENROLL:
IPOP. IPRICESI EXP.    ITIl                   TO,       IICS OF   I NET   9PRI.SCH.,TEACHe TO GNP/ .T0 SEC.   2 NET   tTEACM- RATIO,
yP2(02J0) 2 CUSS): ONLY)           EDU. :PRI. SEC. HT.,ADULTS)i CE   :CYCLE(%EZER    2 CAPITA  II  CE                           (1)   :ER    :  x)        
(1) :2 (2) t  (3)             (4I)   I       CS)       t (6)    s (7)   I   (8)    2 (9) 2(10)    I (I1)                1CI2)   z(13)  :(14) 
ADVANCED
AUJ S T R IA      73    7 .5    . I,02     it.1     9.9      470   250   200    99         98         93        26        2. 0        99        SI        19       8.00
CANADA            7?  22.1D 5, 4go0        7 .7    j9,4       s0    38    19      98       89         98        24        2.0         99         82       17       9 . 00
GERMANY F.REP.7?      2.1..2  5.32OD       '1. 2    14.2      ...   74** 26       99       41         99        33         ...        99        91        22      17.OOCY
JAPAN             71    0 S. i2 3.630D    42.3    20.7      39    38    12       99        990       99C       2SC       2. 0        99C        900      20C    28.00D
NE THERLANnS    72   13.'2D 4. 3300D       0.5    19.1G    32   245    19         99       95         95        29        3. 0        97        73        20      11.00
NEW ZEALAND    73i   2.9   3. 680l         52    ...         359    24    29      99       99         99        26         ...        99        67        19     20.00
NORWAY            7?    i.9D) 4,660D       7.0    lS.2       58    23    13       99       09         98        20        1.9         99        7 6       IA      11.00
SW.E DE N         73    8.1   5, 940 q     8.9    16,0       38    04    13       99       99         99        17        ...         90        85        10     30 .0 0
U.K.              72   r, ,IID 3.06AD      6.3    12.7       26    39    22       98       99         ...       26        2.0         ...       63        17      11.00
U.S.A.            72 210.'2D 6, 20020      6. 0    15.0      ...   73** 27        99       99         99        25U       2. 0        ..        93        190    29.0 0
EUROPE
GREECE            71    0.90  1,87o0       2.2    21.1       5'4Y   29Y   141    82A       951        ...       32Y      ..          IbA         580      43Y    11.00
IRELAND           72    3.o)0 2. 1 S2D     9.1    13.90    43Y  41Y   tAY    98            97         990       35       ..           95A       75        19       7.00A
PLIRTUGAL         7?    9.00 1,4tO 00.9.                       .          ..                I ..  0y    *,,                                      65XY    ...       7.60Y
SPAIN             71  34.70  1,7)00        2.'I8  12.2A    49Y  22Y   t5Y    94A           qlA        3..        i A     ...          ...       29A       30       6.OOA
AFRICA
ALGERI            7    157       778       7.5               010 32    180    30           76         62E       A2E       6.0OG         E         7       2S       00
BENIN             73    ",'      2 I122    9.3    32.0       47    23    10       it       32X8       708      5SOP      25.08        4A3         78      398      0.O0CY
BOTSWANA          74    u .7     302o      5.2)    20.0       38    20    153    29        700        75        35        5.0         24         13X      le       0.30Y
BUROUNDI          722    3.9      92       2,9    t9.90    47R   AIR   12R    10           200        30?       38       10.0         1o          20      18       1.0
CAMEROiON         73    6.?      290       91.9    20.0       38Y  29Y   17I7TY                                 50 ...                ... 9Y              23Cr    0.90Cr
C.A.R.            70)   1.7TO    2620      It. ON  2). 0     S6    19  ..         .. .     6ACI       29        69Cr      ..1                     5CY    27BY    0.071
CHAD              79    4.o0      002)     3 .12   20.0       7s    22      -     15       29081    3u          6981    IS.)           8          eXBr   30        0.OIBr
CO)NGOC(B)        711   1.3      42522     G .2    4 9.3     402   32    21       50?    13321        63        61        6.0         08         33X      22       3.00
EGYPr             70   36.4      200       r 9.3     ...     29    36    242    00         700       405        4        ...          60         390      28      11.00
ETHIOPIA          73   26.9       922      3.2    20 .0t     42    29    18        7       17C        012       so        3.0         63          2       30       0.2 0
GANOIN            73    0.5   1,310       S9,22    222.6     25S     9    Il      ..      184X8r    25C         AbC       5. 0        18A        20C      21C      1.400C
H A NA           721   9.3o    3220 0     '21.7    24.4DR   380   150  230    ..           6 XCrY   62         30Cr      .           104        1 10     16C1    0.708Y
IVORY COAST    7 2    9,0D    38l00r       6.3    24. 7      27B1 338Y 131         9A      52        '57A       46       .             ..       1 0      25        420BY
KENYA             7 3   42.0       2722    6. 2N  27. 0      63    1 1    14      0 0      73         . ..      00        8.0     0              12       23       1.:0381
LESOTHn           79    1.2      1 IO0N    I ?. P   23. 0    49    to    20       40       8s         522       92        7.Oh        8 1        1 0      26       1 . 00
LIBERIA           79     0.      02221     2.22    i 3.2     27    is    20       73       s8         . ..      39         2. 0       . ..       1 2      26       1.I0AY
MADAGASCAR        722   0i.6     29220     3.-2    22.21     9 1    20    25      00       680        30        6 3      15S. 0       08          90      26       1 .0 2
MALAwl            70    1 2.00   I2202 )   3.21   204.9                    ..... 25        560X       60        90         7 .0       220         A X     20       0.26Cr
MALI              70     5.30     700      4.6N   32.3       368   520   128    boC        )aA        Z2A       40A      14.08        37A         AA      17A      0.16AY
MAURITANIA        722    1.20    2000)    40.      21 .0.1...                 ..  I0        150       . ..      22         . .        ..          3       24
MAURITI22S        7?    00       000        .7    4170    7          0      4     80       86         99        3 I         ..         ..         1       30       1.0C
MOROCCO           712  15.9      3222      9.2C   1 6 ,59     44    07      9     26?      5,40x      2 2       37         . ..       3)A        130      2 1      2.0 0
NIGERIA           7 1  71. 20    2 1220    3.?N   . . .       00A  24A   20A    . ..       390Cr    . ..        34Cr       . ..        . ..       0       20Cr    0.37Cr
RWANDA            73    3.90      722O     3.?C   20.00....... 23                          52                   9    1     ...         . ..       2       1 3      0 .23Cr
SENErAL           72    '2.00    2800       0. IN  22.504R  38A  42A    5A    4 0          380        ..        86..    . 46                     1 10     25       1.71Cr
SIERRA LEONE   71    2 .7        1612      3.2I    23. 4      31    36    30      15?      390        45        32         ;.OE       6          130      21       0.538Y
SOMALIA           79    3.?2    1022       3. 73   20.80    090   160   193    g0?         340        86       135       12 . 0       60          3       1 5      0.1I0
SUDAN             72   17.20r    1320      '2 . S  2I3.2     223   29    28       1 5      i8         79        45         0 .0       25        I41       20       1.23Y
SWAZILAND         75S   0.9      440 2     u. N          2. 0  37    3 1    1 3   so       70         Soi       38         3 .0       80         4 9      22       2.0 0
TANZANIA          722  13.2C    I OC       5. IN   17.0       36    . ..   12     63       040X       ...       429        .            7         2       21C      0.30
TUNISI1A          73   5,. 220    0600D    6. 3    23 .0L     37    43    28      9 5      72         8 1       4 1        6.0        31t        104      2 1      3.0 0
UGANDA            70   10.00     2522      S. 2N   17.6CR   '2220  220   250    25W        080Cr    ...         36         . .         14A        41Cr   2 1       0.5881
UPPER VOLTA    7?    9.72)        70A0r    4.22   23.9       65,   10       6      5;      I22        . ..      49        1 8. 0      20          2       23       0.0181
ZAIRE             73   23.22     12222     9.2CN 21 IC    5AC   17C   29C   I45            63         38        44A        6. 0       03          8       20       0.9681
ZAMBIA            70    22 .7    '282      5,.3 S  ('2. 2     30    18    26      03       88         B22       07         9 .0       20         1 3      22       1 .0 0
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
COSTA  RICA  71~;   -1.00    712       5.2    22. 7      97    29    1 2      89       86Cr      69         29        1.0         SB        22Cr    25       4 2.11 CrY
D(MINICAN REP.72    '2 .'4D   91220        3.22    t3.9       42    24    22      51        80        1 7       54         3.00       63         1 3.5    20       7 .0 0
EL SALVADOR    79    3.71)   39220         3.6    23.8        61     5    22      60B      69C        ...       39Cr       *. .       39         hOxC    21Cr    4.358Y
GUATEMALA         73    5.)1     500        2.9    26.0       59    23    14      07       64         26        i's        3. 0       69          8       25       4.09Y
HAITI             72    0,00    13220D      22,9     6.60    61    2 1      8     208       22        25?       45        95.0        so          3       23       1.00?
HONDURAS          72    2.70    32220      3.9    26.90)   64    1 3    18        5 2      810        1 8       37         6.0         75        140      104      3.0 0
JAMAICA           72    1.90    99,20      6 .9Y1  9,7        331   22Y    Ty    86       10601       . . .     92         . ..        ...       3201    1 9       4.79Y
MEXICO            722  56.00    8900)      2.6      9. 3      542   24    1 2     76       721        31        06         1 .0       63         19       23       6.32Cr
NICARAGUA         70    2.00    50o0       2.5    24.2        6 1    4 3    1 3   51       6'5        21        37         2.0        93         1 7      20       7.0 0
TRINIDAD II T. 721   1.00  1,32220D        9.2 I    IS.9      93    27    12      90       950        87        39         0.0         25       249       25       2.56AY
SOUTH AMERICA
BOLIVIA           76    9.8      31S;F     9.0     17,F    ......38                         17,       290       20        'SF           ..        48      180
BRAZIL            70 101,1D    7600        22,S    t2,2C    02    20        3?    79        80X       . ..      27CY       ...         ..         88      15Cr    6.008
CHILE             72   10.2D    7200        0.6  1  0.6AY  36V  141   36Y    ..,    IIIXDY    ...                3701      ...         ...       48XDY ..
COLOMBIA          70   22.90    4400        4.0 2    0,9     35    to    20      73        67        222        36        0. 0        90        0 7      14       4.00
ECUADOR           72    6.70    3800        3.7    27.TC    499Y 22100 1000   69            72        ...       30         ...         ...       48       14       4.978Y
GUYANA            74    0.7      4100       S.BN   10.70    47    351   14        83A       920       39         13        6.0         19        62X1    24         1.00
PARAGUAY          74    2.00    374         1.8    1I.0       99    13    22       81       82        26         So        1.9         65        17        12      5.00
PERU              71   t'2.9D    6200       '2,5    24.1D    s0    22    15        72       80        38         392)1     3 .0        70        30       2301   12,.00
VENEZUELA         73   1 1.2   1. 630       22.6    19.9      300   280   390    778        81                   I'S 3     2.04        . ..      33        . ..    12.63Cr



COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATDOR    CCONTO)                                      ANNEX I  PAGE 2
C DECEMBER 14, 1976
GNP/ II % GNP  3% TOTALt%  OF PUBLIC I                                   s PRI. iAV.PRI.   I             I        IBEC  I.
I       :CAfITAs DEVOTEDSPUBLIC 2 EDUCATION    tLITER- II PRI. ICOMPLE- ISTU- ISCM.TEACHIPROGRES3S1 SEC.  WSU- i                             I
AT  i To EDU.t  EXP. 3 RECURRENT    2ACY             sENROLLiTION       sDENTS:SALARY rNtION RATE sENROLLIDENTiMIGMER,
IMARKET: (PUBLICIDEVOTED:EXP ALLOCATED.   RATE IRATIO IRATE FORIPER   IRELATION *FROM PRI.tRATIO EPER   *ENROLLt
a pop, ipRICES: ElP.    i  TO    I           TO:       *I% OF   I NET   SPRI.SCH.tTEACHI TO GNP/ iTO SEC.  II NET   iTEACH- RATiog
YPi(ouo)I (USS)l ONLY)   I  EDU. EPRI. SEC. HI.3ADULT3)I (K)  SCYCLE(X),FR    t CAPITA   I  (11)                       I (U   SER      s (Z) I
:(1) I:  (2) a  (3)    :  (4)  I            (5)       : (6)    I (7)  i  (B)    I(9) I(10o             I (Ii)      t(12)  s(13) 2(14)   a
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AF-GH,A,N 1S T, A N    7 11   16.3  9o?  ..               39P'  23P   LISP   t0        26X      24        412       9.0        78         8X     21       1.00
BANGLADESM       73  7I1.I       s0      1.2    20.2........    23                     56X       ...      148       ...        ...       231     28       ..
CHINACrAIWAN i  73  19.'1      661)      3.?    114.0     28    41    22      82       98C      94        40       14.0        84        AIC     26      20.OOC
INDIA            l1 581.9D   j1200       ?.6VY            .... ..      ... 29          79X       ...      LIlA       ..        ...       281     20AY    4.O0AY
INDONESIA        7. 12/4.110    1300     1.8    11.(      83   23    14       62      63        Al)       32        5.0        91        12       16      2.00
IRAN             73  32.2      871       3.3    12.6      508   188  128   '50         77       74A       32        s.oS       80A       24      32       4.32CY
IRAQ            72   10./10   85oD       6.7    26.3DM....... 26                      61CY      ...       22        ..         ..        26XCY  26        6.28CY
JORDAN           73    2.9    31(0       7./1    81.8    532    Is   21       59       920      76        38        5.         BAox0    22                4.00
KOREA            73  32.9      slO0      2.9   2/1).     641   26       8     92      97        90        53        3.0        71        46      3 7      6.00
LEBANON          72    2.90   04410      3.5    18.0      39    40    10      68       86       65        19        2.0        63        26U     25      23.00
MALAYSIA         74  11.7       '7o      6.41   28.0    '('   31    it    60C          96F      90        32        42.00      83F       44F     27F      3.OOF
OMAN             72    0.80    BW1D      t.7N    3.8      96      -   -       20       24X      99        is        7.0        ...       0.4X      9      ..
PAKISTAN         75  66.20    1200       1.6    16.2    /45   25    18        21       47X      5::       39        2.0        ...       171      18      6.00
PAPUA N.G.       75    2.6     420       5.6    16.t    38    16   24         32       57?      73P       32       11.0        90        12X?    24       0.90?
PHILIPPINES    74  110.20    2800        2.5    t4.       73    15    12      87     104X        ...      34       1-5.0       ...       46X      ...   21.00
SINGAPORE        72    2.20 t*(134D      3.1   16.2       44    31    is      75A      96Y      72A       33                   99A       570     24       8.2SY
THAILAND         73  39.1      270       4.014F 20.7F    65       9    Is     82      87X       93C       32        3.0 U      91C       22X     24       2.00
TURMKEY          72  37.90    6000D    ...    13.0DM ....                             OSICY               3400      ..          .        22XY   270Y   5.318Y
YEMEN            73    6.3      Ion      11.9     4.0     49FP 1         F    1        150      28        16        5.          521              19       0.0580
YEMEN P.D.R.   72    1.510    2100       2.3A   12.6      79    12      -     10      701       31        29       10.0        99        121     20       0.0SAY
SU-MM-A,R-YF,O-R,D,EVE,LfnP-IHG-CO-U-N,TR-IE-S.i--------------------------------------------------
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES:                     75,    72       69    68    68      70      78        54        77          52       50        78      74        73
RANGES                      ~~~~~~~~~~(/1.9-   (3.8-   (215- (0-  (0-    (5-  (20-  (17-     (19-       (1.8-    (7-        (.4-    (9-      (.01-
12.11P I  32.3)  96 ) 52)  40)   98)           184X)   Q99         65 I       25.0)    99)       75.11)  43)       23.0)
QIUARTILFSIUPPFR                       S .2    22.1     55    31    22     75       87        75)       46          8       80        29       26       6.0
MEDIAN:                   '.1    )M1.0      45   23    15    530        71        51o      38           5       63        16       23      2.0 0
LOwER                     3.11    13.9      38    16    22     21       52        30       'Si          3       25         9       20        .9
-MAGNITUDE NTL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8:2971                              NEGDP....
7  QUESTIONABLE                      C:1972                        FEINcLUDING FOREIGN AID                     COLUMNS:1  AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS n=1973                              02CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                            OR 18RD MISSIONS
**COMBINED WrTH PRIMARY             E=1974                        R=MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                   3 TO 10 15R0 MISSIONS
F=197S                       SzMOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                      AND/OR UNESCO
G=1976                       T:EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                      STATISTICAL
U=PUBLIC ONLY                                                  YEARBOOK
V=INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPFNDITURE
XOINCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
YZUNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE FOIJCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSI3 Of RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWFVER.ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE SEEN cOLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCESI THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE nCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE uSE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOwING OUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MIND:
II)EDUCATION' AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING. FORMAL AND NON-FORMALF
(2)"PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND "SECONDARY" EDUCATION REFERS To ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
(S)"LITEMAcY RATES"[COL-6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUN1'RIFS THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
onuSTF/JL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF "LITERATE" HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY,
(4)"PL'BLIC EXPENnITURF IN EDUCATION"(COLS.3,4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND QLIASI-PIIRLIC AGENCIESI
(S)'ENRULLMENT RATTnsII(CnLS 7. 1? AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROTPRIATE SCHOOJL. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES 0/WINr TO VARIATInN IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT fIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGEn ST//DENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Review of Existing Programs
I. The Formal School System
Organization and Structure
1.        The Ministries  of Education and Higher Education, which since
early 1976 have been administered by a single minister, have responsibilities
for the administration of public and private formal education at all levels,
with the exception of the university system which remains autonomous. How-
ever, considerable authority has been delegated to the 36 provincial director-
ates through the Decentralization Law No. 959 of 1975. The administrative
structure of the Ministry is shown in charts 1 and 2 to this Annex.
2.        The education system comprises six years primary education (grades
1-6), three years preparatory education (grades 7-9), three secondary general
and secondary technical education (grades 10-12), five years primary teacher
training and technician training (grades 10-14), two years technician training
(grades 13-14) and higher education degree courses (grades 13-16 plus). Pri-
vate education, though declining proportionately, is not negligible as it
enrolled 205,941 primary, 235,705 preparatory, 73,203 secondary general and
50,480 secondary technical students in 1974/75, which represents 5%, 20%, 22%
and 15% respectively, of total enrollments in these stages.
Preschool and Primary
3.        Preschool education is not publicly organized.  Private schools en-
rolled 41,948 children (20,719 girls) in 1975/76, mainly in cities, with al-
most half this enrollment in Cairo. A new section to deal with preschool
education has been established in the Ministry of Education and supervision
is conducted in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs.
4.        Primary education is compulsory for six years with entry from age
six to eight. Enrollments have increased modestly from 3,873,297 in 1971/72
to 4,120,936 in 1975/76, an average annual expansion of 1.6%. Enrollment of
girls increased by 7.6% during this time as against 5.6% for boys, though the
proportion of girls enrolled remains about the same at 38%. Gross enrollment
ratio is 74% including about 19% of students outside the 6-11 age-group. Re-
peater rates are high in the examination grades two, four and six at 13.7%,
15.2% and 13.8% respectively and there is a steady dropout rate of over 3%
for each grade.
5.        Some 60% of primary schools operate more than one daily shift and
school equipment is frequently substandard. Rapid increase in school building



ANNEX 2
Page 2
costs poses a major financing problem. Teaching methods are considered to be
rather traditional, and effective learning is frequently hindered by a lack of
textbooks and teaching materials. The student:teacher ratio of 40.4 is accept-
able but 20% of teachers are not fully qualified. In the primary leaving
certificate examination, about 73% of grade six students were successful. The
transition rate of 64.3% to second-level education in 1974/75 increased to
72.2% in 1975/76.
6.        Preparatory education is about four-fifths public.  While enroll-
ments have grown rapidly from 925,261 in 1971/72 to 1,339,063 in 1975/76, an
average annual increase of 9.7%, the proportion of girls increased only
modestly from 32.9% to 35.1%. The gross enrollment ratio (1974/75) was 48%,
including approximately 26% of students outside the 12-14 age-group. Repeater
rates for grades seven and eight were 6.7% and 5.7% respectively, in 1974/75
and a very high 36.5% for examination grade nine.
7.        The curriculum follows a traditional academic pattern with 14% of
total time devoted to art and practical subjects. Shortcomings in buildings,
equipment and teaching materials frequently hinder efficient learning.
Student:teacher ratio and average class size, 38.9 and 40.2 respectively, are
somewhat high and about 37% of teachers are not fully qualified. Of the
461,515 students who sat for the 1974/75 preparatory certificate examination,
308,013, or 66.7%, were successful. The transition rate to the upper cycle
was 56.3% in 1975/76.
8.        Secondary general education is also about four-fifths public.  En-
rollments increased at an average annual rate of 3.5% from 312,489 in 1971/72
to 358,319 in 1975/76; the proportion of girls enrolled increased slightly over
this period from 32.1% to 34.1%. Gross enrollment ratio for all grade 10-12
students, including those in secondary technical schools and primary teachers'
colleges, was 31% in 1974/75. Repeater rates in secondary general schools in
1974/75 were 5.2, 4.3 and 30.2 for grades 10, 11 and 12, respectively.
9.        Following a common course in grade 10, two options, literature and
science, are provided in grades 11 and 12. While students taking the litera-
ture option devote 71% of available time to literary fields, those taking the
science option spend 45% of their time on purely science subjects. Student:
teacher ratio and average class size are 22.4 and 38.7 respectively, and about
27% of teachers were not fully qualified (1974/75). Of the 56,563 students
who sat for the 1975 final certificate examination in the literature option,
38,759 (74.2%) were successful.
10.       Secondary technical education is provided in separate industrial,
agricultural and commercial schools which are predominantly public. Ministry
data show a rapid enrollment growth over the last five years as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Enrollment         1971/72        1975/76        Average Annual Growth Rate
Industrial 1/       84,378        101,800                    4.8%
Agricultural        33,172         39,518                    4.5%
Commercial         172,264        236,177                    8.2%
The proportion of girls enrolled has increased slightly over this period from
31.9% to 33.6%. Average repeater rates in 1974/75 for grades 10 and 11 in the
industrial, agricultural and commercial schools were 5.6%, 11.7% and 7.2%
respectively, and for the examination grade 12 were 33.8%, 33.6% and 35.9%
respectively.
11.       The secondary technical schools generally cater for the less academic
students and curricula are heavily oriented toward the craft rather than the
technician objective. Graduates have little chance to proceed to higher edu-
cation; in addition they are not considered of the standard for entry to the
labor farce as skilled workers and accordingly have initial placement problems.
Student:teacher ratio and average class size are 17 and 34 respectively. A
large proportion of teachers are not pedagogically qualified--71%, 78% and 49%,
respectively for industrial, agricultural and commercial schools. Successful
students in the final examination (1975) comprised 25,420 industrial, 10,547
agricultural and 53,828 commercial, representing 67.5%, 71.8% and 72.4% passes,
respectively.
Teacher Training
12.       Primary Teacher Training:  Primary teachers total 100,901 (1975),
including 51,718 women (51.3%). About 20% (20,000) are not fully qualified
and the student:teacher ratio is 40.4. To provide for the projected 1981
enrollment of 5,029,000, even at the maximum student:teacher ratio of 45,
about 111,755 teachers will be required. Despite government plans to in-
crease the annual outputs of the training institutions from 6,600 in 1975/76
to 7,000 in 1980/81 (table below), a shortfall of about 7,800 teachers will
remain (assuming a 5% annual attrition rate and the fact that about 90% of
male graduates must enter the military for two years of training). To meet
this shortfall and to help up-grade the 20,000 current teachers not fully
qualified, pre-service and in-service pedagogical training is planned to begin
in 1976/77.
1/   Includes 589 students in five-year grade 10-14 course for 1971/72 and
3,500 students in 1975/76.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Primary Teacher Requirements and Supply 1974/75-80/81
Primary Schools      Existing Training Colleges        Actual Teachers
Year       Enrollments       Intake    Enrolled    Output mL        Available
1974/75      4,074,893        4,143      33,275        8,632          101,900
1975/76      4,105,000        8,000      33,100        6,644          101,786
1976/77      4,181,000        8,000      33,400        3,622          102,005
1977/78      4,302,000        8,500      37,500        5,242          102,781
1978/79      4,525,000        9,000      41,100        5,365          103,515
1979/80      4,890,000        9,500      44,600        6,987          102,920
1980/81      5,029,000       10,000      45,400        6,978          103,976
1980/81 teacher requirements - 111,755 )  shortfall - 7,779 or 7,800
1980/81 teachers available   - 103,976 )
/L   90% of male graduates must take two years military training before
beginning teaching.
13.       Primary teachers colleges are almost totally public.  Enrollments
increased from 27,247 in 1971/72 to 30,014 in 1975/76, an average annual in-
crease of 2.6%. The proportion of girls decreased slightly over this period
from 45.6% to 44%. Repeater rates for grades 10 through 14 were 5.3, 3.0, 2.1,
0.8 and 2.1, respectively in 1974/75. Attempts in the sixties to introduce a
two-year post-secondary training course did not succeed.
14.       Primary teacher training is conducted in 64 colleges, many of which
are in poor condition and lacking in modern equipment and teaching materials.
The curriculum for grades 10-12 has a traditional academic bias. While the
two-year pedagogical course in grades 13-14 is also traditional, attempts at
modernization are now being undertaken. Student:teacher ratio and average
class size are 12.4 and 34.1, respectively; and 87% of teacher trainers are
qualified. There were 8,632 graduates in 1975 or 97.9% of those sitting for
the final examination.
15.       Teacher training for preparatory and general secondary schools.  The
total number of teachers was 45,615 in 1975 and included 14,966 women (32.8%);
about 66% were fully qualified. Teachers are trained either in full four-year
post-secondary pedagogical courses or in a one-year post-graduate course at
education faculties attached to universities. Many graduates go abroad to
teach in other Arab countries. While there is no overall teacher shortage,
a shortfall in certain fields such as modern languages, has recently occurred.
An increased supply of teachers of practical subjects will be necessary as
more time is devoted to these subjects.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
16.       Teachers for technician training are currently being trained by:
(i) the Technical Teacher Training College at Mataria producing B.Sc. degree
teachers in the mechanical, electrical and architectural engineering tech-
nologies, and which graduated about 400 in 1974; (ii) the Technical Teacher
Training School at Kobba (grades 10-14) which in 1979 will graduate its first
annual class of 250-280 teachers in the technical specializations of mechanical,
electrical, electronics, automotive and fine mechanics; and (iii) pre-service
and in-service pedagogical training for those not graduates of teacher train-
ing programs and for those needing upgrading.
17.       The College at Mataria produces theory and laboratory teachers for
the post-secondary technical institutes and, to a lesser extent, for the five-
year technician training schools. The school at Kobba will produce theory and
laboratory/workshop teachers for the MOE three-year and five-year schools and
workshop teachers for the post-secondary institutes. The output of these two
institutions will be adequate to meet the needs of the project institutions
during the plan period. Both of these institutions suffer from a lack of
equipment and other teaching/learning aids, although they are much superior
in this respect to the technician training schools and institutes.
18.       Higher education comprises three types of institutions:  universi-
ties, higher technical institutes and technician training institutes, almost
all of which are overcrowded and lacking in adequate resources. Enrollment
expansion in the universities has been very rapid in recent years and reached
268,280 in 1974/75 with girls accounting for about one third of the enroll-
ment. Distribution of enrollment by faculty in 1973/74 was: Humanities 17%,
Education 8%, Social Sciences 32%, Sciences, Engineering, and Agriculture 27%,
and Health Sciences 16%. Higher Technical Institute and Technician Training
Institute enrollments have also been expanding rapidly and reached 49,687
and 29,625 students respectively in 1974/75, including many part-time students.
Girls comprse about 27% of the student body. University curricula are academ-
ically and research oriented and the Higher Technical Institutes, recently
awarded university status, are expected to change from their former more
applied training programs.
II. Out-of-School Education and Training
19.       Agricultural education and training is administered mainly by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation with the exception of 53 Second-
ary Technical (Agriculture) Schools controlled by the Ministry of Education.
About 45% of the labor force is engaged in agriculture and current develop-
ment strategy lays emphasis on horticulture and animal husbandry, together
with agricultural mechanization and food and fiber processing. The large
oversupply of agriculture graduates and veterinarians contrasts sharply with
minimal efforts in farmer training programs. Extension advisory services
are provided by about 5,000 higher education graduates. Of eleven Ministry
of Agriculture training centers, only five provide for training of farm



ANNEX 2
Page 6
leaders. Curricula are not sufficiently relevant and there is not enough
practical training for higher and middle-level personnel.
20.       The Ministry of Social Affairs organizes various two-year prevoca-
tional courses for rural boys and girls. There is at least one such training
center in each province (23) and about 3,500 students are enrolled. Graduates
are supposed to return to work in their home communities.
21.       Vocational skills training for the industrial and construction
trades are the responsibilities of the Ministries of Industry and Mineral
Resources and of Housing and Reconstruction. The two approaches show con-
siderable difference.
22.       The Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources has an experience
extending over 15 years. Its combination formal training and apprenticeship
system is one in which, recruited generally from the preparatory graduates,
trainees spend one year in the training center and two years in industry with
part-time day release to further their theoretical knowledge of the particular
branch of industry in which they are engaged. The centers are generally well
designed, but much of the equipment needs replacement and some additional
equipment is essential if the centers are to keep abreast of current indus-
trial practice. The 28 existing centers, many of which are operating on
double shift, are able to accept some 5,000 new apprentices per year.
23.       In sharp contrast, the Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction has
much less experience in the training field and is faced with an urgent need
to carry out construction on an unprecedented scale, partly to replace build-
ings destroyed by war and partly to meet the demands of a rapidly increasing
population. With certain exceptions, the formal apprenticeship method is
not common in the building trades, its place being taken by short periods of
training either "ion-the-job" or in building trades centers. The Ministry
has only four such centers and is forced to make use of the poorly equipped
secondary technical school facilities to help meet current demands. More-
over, in order to increase the immediate output, the Ministry has limited
the length of its courses to three months in place of the more usual six
months. Current admission requirements to training programs are that can-
didates be able to read and write. The four existing centers are able to
offer some 650 places with an output of about 1,800 per year. To expedite
the construction program, the Ministry has purchased and plans the further
purchase of a number of existing buildings for conversion to training
centers. The project will provide equipment for buildings providing a
further 6,000 places with an annual output of 17,000 craftsmen.
24.       A secondary but also important aspect of the work of vocational
training centers is the provision of short "upgrading" and "refresher"
courses for those already in employment. The Ministry of Industry and
Mineral Resources provides for an intake of some 2,000 trainees in these
categories and occasional provision is also made for the training of opera-
tives in "accelerated" courses, normally of six months' duration. The
Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction plans to introduce "upgrading" and
other such courses when more accommodations become available.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
25.       Literacy training has had relatively little success in Egypt.
Although a Council for Adult Education and Literacy was established in 1972
in every governorate, there has been little advance on the illiteracy prob-
lem. A 1970 law required all ministries, organizations, institutions,
societies and large employers to arrange and conduct literacy programs for
their employees. The Ministry of Education furnishes the planning and super-
visory personnel and the employers provide the facilities and expenses.
While these efforts have met with some success in urban areas, they have had
little effect on the millions of rural illiterates. A determined effort to
eradicate adult illiteracy would be highly expensive and, alternatively, the
authorities propose to dry up the source of illiterates by ensuring that all
children complete primary education at least.






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
-ORGANIZATION CHARTHihC mte1
MINISTRY OF HIGHER EDUCATION, 1976                              I    si
Executive
Committee Mission
Universitie l                          MINISTRY OF HIGHER EDUCATION
j!9!!   _                      _ .                                    1    ~~~~~~~~~~~~UNESCO 
Law Consultant                                                                           High Committee for
foreign Students
Universities 
Aars Bureau
1st Undersecretary
of State
Financial                [       Cultural                                                        Higher Education                   Planning and
j                Sector                                                         Sector                             Follow-up Sector
Financial Affairs-            Scientific and Cultural            Private Higher Edu-                  Planning
Department                    Affairs Department                 cation Department                     Department
Td=_nis rat   Affairs              Cultural Relations                 Technical Institute        Lo_Hw-up
Department                   -1   Department                         Department                           Department
Law Affairs                             Experts                           9                          Statingi
I~2~~eDze partLren                    Department                          Department                        Department
Personnel                    Itnational Organi-                  Building & Equip-                   Research
Department                   z n                     Department -  n D                               Department
Mission
Department
World Bank-16087






ANNEX 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
ORGANIZATION CHART, MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, 1976
r   MINISTER O    DCTO 
AND HIGHER EDUCATON
|    FFUCATION                       --""            -  -  -  -  -  -  -  
|  Gtenertal          rT uetnau                                                           ttrm  Coutncil for |F N7on  ente tr |c                                                                 urTu   m
Secretariat                               I           .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A, 
|  Adminsstratiario           |   AdrroittartitAn tord.-..                                                                                                                                     or T echntk
Scretariat        ri                                                                                                                                                                           C--gh Couil-
PariPmenrar  and                      P-bl  R-latILnt
Political Liaiton    r            l     uc      ain
Comca.lat          r          
SA CTORSitai
2   E--ernal and      l         J        Tenial RrIaireyan p                            d                          Pr macEd
Ad    set-nel              _cou.d-ral                             n        Edccaron                        Soa  Ed-caion                            T      Eutnni
C Afta rs-l  4   Sports                                                   (1-lu j   Edt cateo:   Co-ordoation         A t Enicalion                   -|      Ortnia_t on
Scd tdger       l         -|        Social Cara       l                            t                                                          -       Pcaic vatencarittn             -|         circro-rati
_l  Atdinsrtyeg        l        -           Tamiing                    '|       Pangtd                                                               -        Etngtd
Legal Atfairt                   _          Actirtittca
-|   Tettboookt                          ti-|   urratroor 
School Mealse"'                            Tra ning                                                                                                                                        Wr:Bn  b
I  Eucato1         EIt
CoP--.1t                                                                    Ed t                                     d-- Eechu-,
q ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ P  .t.at              Edu--zn 
Plannqng and ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ P-.






ANNEX 2
EGYPT                                                                         Chart 3
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION (FORMAL) SYSTEM, 1974-1975
Primary                                  Preparatory                             Secondary   i                  Higher & Technical
Un,versity
General Arts
Examination for entry into next level                                                         c  Sciences       _
or school leaving certificate
*      Supervised on-the-job training                                                                                              I-l-ersity
MOH = Ministry of Health                                                                                                     _      Aculires o edScine    ec          _
MOIMR = Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources                                         Industrial                                                                       B
MOT = Ministry of Tourism
MOHAR = lMinistry of Housing and Reconstruction                                          -                                                                                  S
All other Institutions responsibility of Ministries of Education and                                                               H,gh.r Technical Institutes
Higher Education and the Universities.                                                     Agricultural                             Enginee'~ring, Commerce,
Commelc a       _      _      A~~~~gric tre, Education_
Technician Training (Industrial, Paramedical,
L                               ~~~~~~~~~~Commercial, Workshop Instructors)
GRD     1 2              3       4Eg17121                                                                                                       1
Primary Teacher Training
Parae,a MOH            J
Techn,c,an Training
Training Centers 
tMOHAR)                                                                          Turism (MOT            S
Health Institutes (MOH)
JOB MARKET
GRADE   1         2        3       4        5       6             7       8        9                     10      11       12                    13       14
AGE       6       7       8        9       10       11           12      13       14                    15       16      17                     18      19
1 / Three month courses (at present) for which entrance requirements                                                                                         World Bank-9798(RI
are age 15 and ability to read, write and do elementary calculations.






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EDUCATION PYRAMID 1975-76
TOTAL
GRADES                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ENROLLMENT
+                                                                          MALE                                                                                                  FEMALE
16                                                                                                                                          1
is       70%                                                                                                       240,143                  102,107                                                                  30%             342,250
+3
___ ___ 1 _ __ ___    __ ___ _z*~~~~~~'                             ~ ~~~~~-- --- ----- --- z                                          ~~~~~~                 ~~~~~~~1~~~~~~1                             756,542
SECONDARY, UPPER CYCLE (81% p.bi,c)                                                                                   _
12                                                                                     170,257                                                    85,407                                                                              255,664
11       65%                                                                                148,646                                                        3plu                                                       35%             232,224
+                                                                                                                                                             I
10                                                                                     172,609                                                               94,045                                                                   266,654
PREPARATORY (79% publicl
9                                                       305.189                                                                               155 .             4      0     3                                                       460,592
8       65o                                                     j252401                                                                                                                                             35%             390,406
311,896                                                                                     176                ,       1     69                                               488,065
4,1 20,936
PRIMARY (95% public)
T
6                              415,921                                                                                                                                                        24D,526                                656,447
5                                      382,516                                                                                            g291                                                                                       610,607
4                          433,605                                                                                                                                                                  26658S 51                        699,470
+         621.                                                                                                                                                                                                          8.
3                               ~~~~~~~~~361,054                                                                                                                                22,6857,622
2             491, 1   -                                                                                                                                                                                         318,583             810,164
1                      409630540 30540                                                                                                                                                                                               756,426
500                   400                    300                    200                    100                     0                     100                    200                    300                    4
THOUSANDS
1/ Inc-udes all pos- secnndary educaton for 1973174: .ll othe, data I0- 1975/76
WoRld Ba,,k-16220






EGYPT - EMPLOYMENT BY ECONOMIC SECTOR
(In thousands of persons)
Split years ended        1967/6      %     1969/70       1970/71       1971/72      1973      1974      1975        %
June 30
Commodity Sectors         5,038.0   64.3    5,375.1    5,505.9          5,582.6   5,613.8   5,663.7   5,853.8   62.9
Agriculture               3,892.4   49.7    4,048.3    4,056.9          4,094.7   4,163.8   4,153.2   4,202.8   45.2
Industry, petro-
leum and mining             867.3   11.1        916.1    1,052.8        1,094.3   1,112.4   1,157.0   1,186.8   12.8
Electricity                   18.5    0.2         22.8        30.4          33.9       35.3       38.3       41.2    0.4
Construction                 259.8    3.3        387.9       365.8         359.7      302.3      315.2      423.0    4.5
Distribution Sectors       1,116.2   14.3    1.,148.9    1,190.1         1,217.4   1,266.1   1,267.4   1,343.9   14.5
Transportation,
communication and
storage                     330.4   4.2         347.2       374.5         388.5      401.8      384.2      418.9      4.5
Trade and finance            785.8   10.1        801.7       815.6         878.9      864.3      883.2      925.0    10.0
Service Sectors            1,673.4   21.4    1,750.7    1,810.0          1,871.5   1,979.8   2,033.2   2,096.7    22.6
Housing                      134.3    1.7        136.3       137.0         137.4      138.0      139.1      142.4      1.5
Public utilities              32.2    0.4         33.7        35.5          37.1       41.5       41.0       43.8       0.5
Other services             1,506.9   19.3    1 580.7    1,637.5          1,697.0   1,800.3   1,853.1   1,910.5    20.6
TOTAL                    7,827.6  100.0    8,274.7    8,506.0          8,671.5   8,859.7   8,964.3   9,294.4   100.0
%                       100                 105.7       108.6          110.7      113.1      114.5      118.7



ANNEX 4
EGYPT-EDUCATION STATUS OF LABOR FORCE 1972
Male         Female      Total        %
Illiterate                                   5,063,600   305,800       5,369,400    60.9
Able to read and write                       2,197,900    55,400       2,253,300    25.5
Below intermediate certificate                 245,300    20,600         265,900      3.0
Intermediate certificate                       360,100   116,800         476,900     5.4
Above intermediate-below university             72,000    49,800         121,800      1.4
University degree                              238,500    54,200         292,700)
) 3.6
Post-graduate degree                            17,700     2,700          20,400)
Not indicated                                  13,900      2,300         16,200       0.2
Total                                8,209,000   607,600       8,816,600    100
_cL r c a e v 12 i r f b
Source: Labor Force Sample Survey, 1972 (Ministry of Labour)



EGYPT - EMPLOYMENT IN MAJOR SECTORS OF PUBLIC MANUFACTURING INDUSTRY - 1974
Top     Middle                                                 Semi-
Industry       Manage-   Manage-   Pro-         Tech-      Super-    Skilled    skilled    Ordinary    Clerical
ment      ment      fessional  nician    visors    workers    workers        Workers      Workers    Total
Textile           448       3,709      5,012       5,915    11,358      48,161      74,024     78,598       16,122      243,347
Chemical         224          977      2,203      1,643      2,942       6,957       9,487     16,659        3,288       44,380
Food             279        1,760      4,329      2,398      4,895      12,884      24,607     11,529        4,250       66,931
Netal              94         463      1,469       1,452     1,230       7,617       7,658      4,335        1,240       25;558
Building
materials         85         702        769         882     1,423       4,705       5,576      8,228        1,336       23,706
Electrical       114        1,048      1,915      3,562      1,486      12,645       7,303      5,772        3,027       36,872
Petroleum        282          811      1,552      1,088      2,008       8,202       3,392      3,508        3,429       24,272
Printing           3          109        190         609      -          2,634        -          244           347        4,136
Total        1,529        9,579    17,439      17,549    25,342    103,805    132,047    128,873           33,039    469,202
%            0.3        2.1       3.7         3.7       5.4        22.1        28.1        27.5         7.1             100
xji



ARAB REPllBLIC OF EGYPT
Enrollment Growth in Formal Education 1970 - 75
1970/71                         1971/72                         1972/73                         1973/74                         1974/75
H         E        Total        H          F       Total        M          F       Total        i          E        Total       _          F        Total
Primary (G 1-6)            2,318,198  1,422,353  3,740,551  2,400,657  1,472,640  3,873,297  2,471,846  1,515,552  3,987,398  2,421,853  1,496,543  3,918,396  2,518,121  1,556,772  4,074,893
Preparatory (G 7-9)          574,053    274,734   848,587    621,050   304,211    925,261    678,713   340,002  1,018,715   726,720    372,571  1,099,291    786,807    412,747  1,199,554
Secondary General (G 10-12)   195,242    94,875    290,117    212,231    100,258    312,489    218,471    103,332    321,803   217,515    106,088    323,603    226,784    113,542    340,326
Secondary Technical
Total (G 10-12):            187,924    83,715    271,639    197,354    92,460    289,814    202,372    96,038    298,410    216,416    104,911    321,327    230,748    116,701    350,274
Industrial Ll                         7,128    82,435                 7,420    84,378                  7,402    86,749                 8,655    92,649                 9,554      98,636
Agricultural                            --      30,024                   --     33,172                   --     34,137                   --      36,539                  --       38,429
Commercial                           76,587    157,180                85,040    172,264               88,636    177,524               96,256    192,139              107,147     213,209
Primary Teacher Training      13,994     11,532     25,526    14,831     12,416     27,247     15,641    12,132     27,773     17,787     13,441    31,228     17,865     14,410      33,275
Technician Traininat
Total /2                                                                          15,943                          21,512     18,228      6,801    25,029                            29,625
Industrial (G 13-14)                                                             4,733                           7,165      7,642        430      8,072                           10,377
Commercial (G 13-14)                                                            11,210                          14,347    10,586       6,371     16,957                           19,248
Higher Tech. Institutes L2                                                          42,616     35,728     12,837    48,565     31,426     11,500     42,926                           49,687
Universities (and other                                                                       153,372    65,527    218,899                          261,048                          301,170
higher education)
/1 Includes 5-year (grades 10-14) courses
/2 Includes many part-time students
Source: a) Ministry of Education, April 1976; b) IDA mission, April 1976; c) IBRD mission, April 1975



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Actual and Projected Enrollments 1974 - 1981
Formal Education System
rades     1974/75      1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79    1979/80        1980/81    Annual
Growth Rate
1975-80
Primary                    1 -  6   4,074,893   4,120,000   4,181,000   4,302,000   4,525,000  4,890,000   5,029,000              4.1%
Preparatory
(including                7 -  9   1,199,554   1,340,000   1,450,000   1,589,000   1,687,000  1,574,000   1,874,000             6.9%
comprehensive)
Secondary General
(including               10 - 12      340,326      360,000      364,000      366,000      379,000    390,000       395,000      1.9%
comprehensive)
Secondary Technical
Industrial /1        10 - 12       95,811       98,301      110,945      127,680      151,400    178,030       201,330
10 - 14        2,825       3,499        5,320        6,760         8,460     10,620        13,500
Agricultural                       38,429       39,518       44,065       51,625       60,325      70,095       78,120     10.2%
Commercial                        213,209      236,177      274,060      290,225      299,150    307,865       319,960 _
Primary Teacher           10 - 14       33,275       33,014       33,400       37,500       41,100      44,600       45,400       6.6%
Training
Technician Training                      29,625      30,947         -            -             -           -          60,000
(industrial and
commercial)
Higher Tech. Institutes                 49,687       50,000 /    50,000        50,000       50,000      50,000        50,000
Universities (and other                301,170      304,300      307,500      310,700      313,900    317,100        320,000
higher education)
Notes:
/1   Includes 5-year courses (grades 10 - 14)
/2   Projections are based upon the maximum capacities of existing facilities,
and include part-time students.
Sources: a) Ministry of Education, April 1976; b) IDA mission, April 1976; c) IBRD mission, April 1975



ANNEX 8
EGYPT
Additional Teacher Requirements in Technical Schools
1/
and Technician Training Institutes,   1975/76-1980/81
1980/81
Enrollments                                 Additional
(000's)           Pupil/Teacher          Requirements2/
1975/76   1980/81           Ratio          Total   Av. Annual
Secondary:
Industrial                 98        201              15            7,500      1,500
Agricultural               40         78              20            2,100        420
Commercial                236        320              20            4,650        930
14,250     2,850
Technician Training:
(Grades 10-14 and 13-14)
Industrial (10-14)        3.5       13.5              10              5003/      100
Industrial (13-14)       11.7       24.0              15              930        185
Commercial (13-14)       19.2       36.0              15            1,280        255
2,710       540
1/  Includes secondary technical, commercial and agricultural schools as well as
the five-year (grades 10-14) and two-year (grades 13-14) technician training
institutes.
2/ Including 5% annual attrition
3/ Additional enrollments will be gained by converting existing 3-year schools
to 5-year schools with no increase in enrollment in a given school. Many
instructors will remain for the new curriculum therefore reducing the need
for new instructors by an estimated 50%.



ANNEX 9
EGYPT
Government Expenditure on Education 1970-1976
(in LE '000)
I. Recurrent Expenditure
1970/71   1971/72    1973          1974       IL9751/    19761/
Ministry of Education        101,781   106,156   130,263   143,965   158,704   204,804
Ministry of Higher
Education                    5,764      6,232      7,174      7,864      8,638      4,786
Universities                  21,335    24,122    31,457    36,367    49,688    66,489
Ministry of Industries            958     1,080      1,267      1,304       1,193     1,393
Ministry of Housing                 -          -        245       476      1,829      2,791
Ministry of Health              n.a.       n.a.        889      1,042      1,050       n.a.
Ministry of Agriculture         n.a.          64       309        241        207       n.a.
Total                        129,838   137,654   171,604   191,259   221,309   280,263
As a % of central govt.
recurrent expenditure        21.1%      20.0%      24.0%      26.1%    25.8%       26.4%
II. Capital Expenditure
Ministry of Education          5,434      5,782    15,609       6,603    18,923       8,869
Ministry of Higher
Education                    1,429      1,556      2,757      3,759      4,666      4,380
Universities                   2,702      8,907      7,066      7,272    10,072       6,391
Ministry of Industries            300        205         98         90        309       569
Ministry of Housing                 -          -         18         23         22     5,475
Ministry of Health              n.a.       n.a.         150        310        259      n.a.
Ministry of Agriculture         n.a.          50         40         26         40      n.a.
Total                          9,865    16,500    25,738    18,083    34,291    25,684
As a % of central govt.
capital expenditure           2.7%       4.0%       5.7%       3.1%         5.0%     2.1%
III. Total Expenditure
All agencies                 139,703   154,154   197,342   209,342   255,600   305,947
As a % of GDP                    4.4%       4.5%       5.4%     5.3%       5.5%       5.9%
1/ Budget estimates.



EGYPT
Public Recurrent Education Expenditure and Unit Costs by Level of Education
1973 and 1976 and Unit Costs
1973                                           1976
Unit                                            Unit
Cost                                            Cost
Salaries    Other    Total        %      L      Salaries    Other    Total        %       L
Ministry of Education
1. Primary education                46,792      5,642    52,434   30.8    13        71,879      9,719    81,598   29.1    20
2. Preparatory education            22,206      2,185    24,391   14.3    24        33,973      4,321    38,294   13.7    29
3. Secondary education:
- general                     14,800      1,935    16,735    9.8    52         22,527      5,574    28,101   10.0    78
- agricultural                  3,300       694      3,994    2.4   117         4,942        944     5,886    2.1   149
- commercial                    3,600       456      4,056    2.4    23         5,332        941     6,273    2.2    27
- industrial                    6,200     1,095      7,295    4.3    84         9,365      1,941    11,306    4.0   lll
Sub-total secondary               27.900      4.180    32,080   18.9               42.166      9.400    51.566   18.3
4. Teacher training                  4,300        684     4,984    2.9   179         6,762        924      7,686    2.8   232
5. Special for handicapped             400         95       495    0.3                 592        150        742    0.3
6. Adult literacy                      318        172       490    0.3                 547        270        817    0.3
7. Administration, sports,
culture, etc.                 13,305      2,084    15.389    9.0               21.106      2.995    24.101    8.6
Total Ministry of Education                    15,042   130,263   76.5             177,025    27,779   204,804   73.1
Ministry of Higher Education
Technical Institutes                   -          -      n.a.       -   n.a.       1,252        716      1,968    0.7    63
Other                                _            -      n.a.       -              1,835        983      2,818    1.0
Total    Ministry of
Higher Education                   5          1,629     7174    4.2                3,087      1          4,786    1.7
Universities                        23,173      8,284    31,457   18.5   161        44,229    22,260    66,489   23.7   n.a.
Ministry of Industries                   -          -     1,267    0.7   n.a.             -         -      1,393    0.5   174
Ministry of Housing                      -          -        245    0.1   n.a.            -         -      2,791    1.0   115
Total                                                   170,406  100.0                                   280,263  100.0
Ministry of Health                                           889          n.a.                              n.a.       -     -
Ministry of Agriculture                                      309          n.a.                              n.a.       -     -
TOTAL                                                   171,604
1x



ANNEX 11
EGYPT
Public Capital Expenditure on Education
by Level of Education - 1973 and 1976
1973               1976
LE '000      Z     LE '000      %
Ministry of Education
1. Primary education                      7,304    28.6      2,172      8.4
2. Preparatory education                  2,205      8.5     2,304      9.0
3. Secondary education:
- general                              1,463     5.7        925      3.6
- agricultural                           553     2.1        330      1.3
- commercial                           1,047     4.1        820      3.2
- industrial                           1,845      7.3     1,229      4.8
4. Teacher training                         885      3.5         98     0.4
5. Special for handicapped                  197      0.8         32     0.1
6. Adult literacy                            49      0.2         50     0.2
7. Administration, sports, culture           61      0.2        40      0.2
Subtotal                             15,609    61.0       8,000    31.2
plus:  Loans                                                869      3.3
Ministry of Higher Education
Technical Institutes                                           220      0.8
Other                                                        4,160    16.2
Subtotal                              2,757    10.8       4,380    17.0
Universities                              7,066    27.7      6,391    24.9
Ministry of Industries                       98      0.4       569      2.2
Ministry of Housing                          18      0.1     5,475    21.4
Total                                25,548   100.0    25,684   100.0
Ministry of Health                          150              n.a.
Ministry of Agriculture                      40              n.a.
TOTAL                                25,738               n.a.



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 3
EGYPT
Projection of Public Recurrent Education Expenditure, 1981
in Constant 1976 Prices (LE '000)
Assumptions
1.        Enrollment growth targets to 1980/81, as obtained from the different
departments in the Ministries of Education and IHigher Education, are shown in
the table below.
2.        The cost of the training programs of the Ministries of Agriculture
and Health, for which no recent expenditure data and no enrollment plans could
be obtained, had to be excluded from the projections.
3.        Cost projections for 1981 are based on unit costs (average recurrent
costs per student enrolled) for 1975/76, or, where these were not available,
for 1974/75.
4.        Recurrent cost estimates, as shown in the table below, are expressed
in constant 1976 prices and do therefore not account for future inflation.
Education being a labor-intensive sector, account has been taken, however, of
the expected increase in real salaries and wages. It is assumed that these
will rise at the same rate as real GDP per capita. Since GDP is expected to
grow at an annual rate of 6% or more and population at a rate of 2%-2.5% p.a.,
it is assumed that real teachers' salaries will increase by 20% between 1976
and 1981 or at an annual rate of 3.7%. The salary component of the unit costs
was therefore raised by 20%.
5.        No provision is made, in the following estimate, for qualitative im-
provements such as higher staff qualifications, lower pupil: teacher ratios,
better provision of books and materials and improved maintenance of buildings
and equipment.



Projection of Public Recurrent Education Expenditure, 1981
Tota) Recurrent Cost
Enijllments                       Unit Cost  (LE)            (in LE '000)
1974/75      1975/76     1980/81    74/75   75/76   80/81        1976       1981
Ministry of Education
Primary education                    4,075,000   4,105,000   5,029,000        15       20       24     81,598   120,700
Preparatory education                1,202,000   1,340,000   1,874,000        24       29       35     38,294    65,600
Secondary-general                       340,000     360,000      395,000      66       78       90     28,101    35,550
- agricultural                           38,400       39,500       78,100    123      149      172      5,886    13,430
- commercial                            213,200      236,200     320,000      23       27       33      6,273    10,560
- industrial (3 yrs.)                    95,800       98,'500    201,300      93      111       30     1106    26,200
- industrial (5 yrs.)                       900        3,500       13,500   n.a.      130/3   150  J   ,3          2,020
Teacher training                         33,300       33,100       45,400    180      232      270       7,686    12,260
Other                                                                                                    1,559    (2,500)
Admin., sports, culture                                                                                 24,101   (30,000)
Subtotal                                                                                         204,804   318,820
Min. of Higher Education
Administration                                                                                           2,818    (4,000)
Technical instiue  /2                    30,000       31,350       63,610              63      (80)      1,968    (5,000)
Higher institutes                        49,700                              123                             _
Universities                            268,300                  (370,000)        J  188       215      66,489   (80,000)
Univerities                              68,30                                185
Min. of Industries
Vocational training                      (7,000)      (8,000)    (12,320)   170        180/4   200       1,393      2,460
Min. of Housing
Vocational training                           -                                 -     115                2,791      9,350/5'
Total                                                                                            280,263   419,630
/1  In constant 1976 prices.
/2  Industrial and commercial.
/3  Estimate-based on actual cost of a typical center of 1,200 students.
/4  Estimate based on actual cost of a typical center of 210 trainees.                                                          a X
/5  Based on detailed cost estimate of the Min. of Housing and Reconstruction.
o _
(  )  =crude estimate 



ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 3
Recurrent Cost Projections for Project Institutions
The following total cost figures refer to the projected recurrent costs
by 1981 of all project institutions (first and second phase) based partly
on average unit cost figures prevailing for the type and level of education
given in the institutions, partly on detailed cost analysis for new types
of training. The costs shown are not identical with the costs generated by
the project since many institutions are existing schools that are in op-
eration and using recurrent funds with or without the IDA project.
1981      Recurrent
Total    Unit      Expenditure
Enrollment  Cost   .irst   Second      Total
institut-ions                          by 1981     LE    Phase    Phase    LE '000
Preparatory Schools                      3,840     50      24      16S        192
Secondary Schools                        4,320     100/-   216      216       432
Primary Teacher Training Colleges        2,160     270'1    -       583.2     583.2
plu3 : Prirary Schools                  720      24/I     -       17.3       17.3
Technici.an Training Schools/O          10,800     15011   630      990      1,620
Technical Teacher Training Institute      280.    150      42        -         42
Technical Institutes                    23,400     80    912        960      1,672
Voc. Traiaing Centers (Industrial)       6,785/5   200   1,024      333      1,357
Voc. Instructor Training (Industrial)      200     250      50       -         50
Vo^. Training Centers (Construction)    36,000     137   2,966    2,966      5,932
Voc. Inscructor Training (Construction)    750     600     451.8     -        451.8
6,315.8  6,233.5   12,549.3
/1  Estimated unit cost for the (new) type of curricula based on actual
1975/76 unit costs (adjusted for foreseeable real salary increases be-
tween 1976 and 1981) for similar programs.
/2  Actual 1976 cost of a typical center for 1,200 students, adjusted for
foreseeable real salary increases.
/3  Industrial courses only.
/4  Industrial and commercial courses.
/5  Full-time student equivalent.



EGYPT
Enrollments, Outputs, Pupil/Teacher Ratios and Use Factors
In Project Institutions
Total FTE   Maximum   Pupil/    No. of
Grade      Course      Annual      Annual   Teacher   Weekly               Use Factors
Institution/School                                      Number      Level      Length   Enrollment   Output       Ratio    Periods   Classrooms   Labs/Workshops
Comprehensive Preparatory School                           1         7-9      3 years         960          320      21:1     33-34        73-94           85-94
11          it        to  /3                         3         7-9      3             2,880          960     21:1      33-34        73-94           85-94
Comprehensive Secondary School  /3                         2        10-12      3   "        2,160          720      21:1       32         81-94           63-94
"i ""                         2        10-12     3             2,160          720     21:1       32          81-94           63-94
/3
Primary Teacher Training College                           3        10-14      5            2,160          432      12:1     38-39          82            79-92
Technician Training Schools                                4        10-14      5            4,200          800      10:1     40-42        78-83           57-86
"1     ",        it  /3                              6        10-14     5             6,600        1,100     10:1      40-42        78-80           50-80
Technical Teacher Training School                          1        10-14     5             1,500          280      10:1       40         78-83           70-86
Technical Institutes/3                                      5       13-14      2           11,400        4,560      15:1     34-36        80-90           70-92
It      11        -                                    4        13-14     2            12,000        4,800      15:1     34-36        80-90           70-92
Vocational Training Centers--Industrial/3                  10     Post-Prep.  3             8,570        2,325      10:1       48           80            63-80
if  if  of  it                     5       "     "    3   '         5,200        1,415      10:1       48           80            63-80
Vocational Instructor Training Center--Industrial           1     Post-Sec.   1               200          200      10:1       40           80            63-80
Vocational Training Centers--Construction                 20          -        3months     18,000       17,000      10:1       36           56              89
Vocational Instructor Training Center--Const.               3     Post-Sec.   1 year           750         600      10:1       34           78              74
/1  The rather low student/teacher ratio in tbe comprehensive schools is due to the nationally accepted weekly teaching load of
18 hours for fully qualified teachers and to the increased proportion of practical subjects in the curriculum.
/2 Includes 480 places to be added in the second phase.
/3 Proposed by mission as basis for engineering study, and/or technical assistance.



ANNEX 14
EGYPT
Technician Training Specializations in Project Institutions
School Locations
Aswan   Mostorad    Shoubra    Tanta
Ministry of Education
Technician Training Schools
Specializations:
Electrical machines                          X
Electrical transmission & distribution       X
General electronics                          X
Mechanical                                   X
Food technologies                                       X
Textile technologies                                              X            X
Ministry of Higher Education
Technician Training Institute
Alexandria Aswan Benha Mataria Zagazig
Industrial specializations:
Air conditioning and refrigeration             X          X               X        X
Civil construction                                                       X         X
Communications electronics                     X                 x       x
Drafting and design                            X          X      X        X
Electro-mechanics                                         X
Farm power and machinery                                                           X
Industrial electrical systems                            X       X       X         X
Instrumentation and process control            X                         X
Mechanical power and automotive                                           X
Production technology and control                                X                 X
Commercial specializations:
Accounting                                                X      X
Banking and finance                            X          X               X
Data processing                                                  X
Export-import                                  X                          X
Hotel management                                          x
Legal secretarial science                      X
Management                                                X      X        X
Purchasing and inventory control               X                          X
Social insurance                               X
Marketing                                                        X



Egypt: First Education Project
MOIMR:     Enrollments and Outputs of Project Training Centers
Industrial Trades
1975/6                 1976/7                 1977/8                 1978/9                 1979/80                1980/81                 1981/2                 1982/3                  1983/4
Enrollment  Output   Enrollment  Output   Enrollment  Output   Enrollment  Output   Enrollment  Output   Enrollment  Output   Enrollment  Output   Enrollment  Output   Enrollment  Output
A. Project Centers
1st year          2,800                  3,000                  3,200                   3,400                  3,400                  3,400                   3,400                  3,400                  3.400
2nd year          3,060                  2,240                   2,400                  2,560                  2,720                  2,720                   2,720                  2,720                   2,720
3rd year          2,580       2,450      2,755       2,615      2,.01        1,915      2,160      2,050       2,305      2,140       2,450      2,325        2450       2,325       2,45       2,325        2.450    2,325
Total          8,440                  7,995                  7,615                   8,120                  8,425                  8,570                   8,570                  8 570                   8,570
B. Planned Centers
Ist year                                                                                                                              2,070                   2,070                  2,070                   2,070
2nd year                                                                                                                                                      1,655                  1,655                   1,655
3rd year                                                                                                                                           nil                   nil 1i490               1,415       1,490    1,415
Total                                                                                                                              2,070                   3,725                  5,215                   5,215
C. Equiv, full-time
load              4,410                  4,560                  4,840                   5,120                  5,120                  6,785                   7.335                  7,575                   7,575
D. Teaching staff         440                    460                    485                    510                     510                    680                     735                    760                     760
Wastage & new supply
for project centers
only                       44                     64                     71                      74                     51                    221                     123                     99                      76
N.B.:
a)  1st year apprentices attend full-time; 2nd and 3rd year apprentices attend 1/3 (2 days/week) and 1/6 (I day/week) full-time.
b)  drop-out rates for students estimated at 207., 10%, and 5% in successive years.
c)  wastage rates for instructors estimated at 10% per year.
d) the enrollment and staff numbers for the ten pro iect centers approximate to one-half of the totals for all centers as at 1975/76.
e)  assuming a wastage rate of 10% for other centers, the total number of instructors to be trained each year shown would be of the order of:
E. Instructor training
(all centers)         110                    125                     125                    100                    270                     175                    145                     130                   130
N.B,:
a) The instructor training enrollment must anticipate the instructor need by one year.



EGYPT:  FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
MOhAR:  Enrollments and Outputs of Project Training Centers
Construction Trades
1975/76                   1976/77                     1977/78                    1978/79                     1979/80                     1980/81
Enrollment   output       Enrollment   Output         Enrollment   Output         Enrollment   Output         Enrollment   Output         Enrollment   Output
A.  Craft Training
Existing centers          1,950       1,800          1,950       1,800          1,950        1,800           1,950        1,800         1,950         1,800         1,950         1,800
Project  centers                                     5,400       5,130         11,700       11,115          18,000       17,100        18,000        17,100        18,000        17,100
Planned  centers          _                                       __                                                          _         5,400         5,130        11,700        1
Totals        1,950       1,800          7,350       6,930          13,650      12,915          19,950       18,900        25,350        24,030                      3005
Cumulative output                     1,800                      8,730                      21,645                       40,545                      64,575                      94,590
B.  Instructor Training
1 center                  3 centers                     2 centers                  1 center                     1 center
Project centers                                        250         200            750         600               500         400            250          200            250          200
C.  Instructor demand             65                       245                        455                           665                        845                       1,055
D.  Instructor supply             65                        65                        265                           865                      1,265                       1.465
deficit                                     180                        190
surplus                                                                                              200                        420                         410
Note-                   The early deficits are to be met by recruitment from among retired former instructors and by direct recruitment from industry.  The later
surpluses will be required to meet the replacement of the older recruits, the training of those directly recruited from industry, normal
replacements, and the conduct of refresher courses.



EGYPT
Education I
Schedule for Technical Assistance
Project Item and Type of                                   Total Man/Months and Recommended Beginning Dates
Technical Assistance Required
Experts          Date        Fellowship         Date
Comprehensive Schools
Fellowships:
Planner/administration (1 @ 3 months)                                                         3           7-15-77
Supervisor/Inspector (6 @ 3 months)                                                          18           9-01-77
Teacher trainers (6 @ 9 months)                                                              54           9-01-77
School principals (3 @ 3 months)                                                              9           7-15-77
Education/vocational guidance (1 @ 9 months)                                                  9           7-15-77
Technical Teacher Training School
Experts:
Equipment use and maintenance training:
Mechanical technology (1 @ 3 months)                         3             7-01-78
Electrical technology (1 @ 3 months)                         3             7-01-78
Electronics technology (1 @ 3 months)                        3             7-01-78
Automotive technology (1 @ 3 months)                         3             7-01-78
Fellowships:                                                                                                            O X
Mechanical technology (2 @ 6 months)                                                         12           9-01-77       H > X
Electrical technology (2 @ 6 months)                                                         12           9-01-77         -
Electronics technology (2 @ 6 months)                                                        12           9-01-77
Automotive technology (2 @ 6 months)                                                         12           9-01-77       4



Project Item and Type of                                   Total Man/Months and Recommended Beginning Dates
Technical Assistance Required                                 Experts          Date        Fellowship       D_te
Technician Training Schools (grades 10-14)
Experts:
Curriculum Specialists:
Petroleum and petro-chemical (2 @ 3 mon hs)!/              6             7-01-77
Shipbuilding and repair (2 @ 3 months)1                    6            7-01-77
Diesel and heavy equipment mechanics (1 @ 3 months)!/  3                 7-01-77
Equipment Specialists:
Lists and specifications (7 @ 2 months)l/                 14             7-01-77
Use and maintenance training (5@  3 months)               15            7-01-78
Administration and organization of schools (1)              12             7-01-78
Fellowships:
Ministry of planning and supervision staff
(5 @ 2 months)                                                                            10           9-01-77
Program inspectors (8 @ 6 months)                                                           48           9-01-77
Directors and assistant directors of schools
(8 @ 6 months)                                                                            48           9-01-77
Head instructors (28 @ 6 months)                                                           168           9-01-77
Vocational Training Centers - Construction Trades
Experts:
Instructor training (1 @ 18 months)                        18             7-01-77
Data bank consultant (1 @ 8 months)                          8            7-01-77
General training specialist (1 @ 9 months)                   9            7-01-77
General training specialist (3 @ 6 months)                  18            7-01-77
Visual aids specialist (I @ 3 months)                        3            7-01-77
Fellowships:                                                                                                           " c 
Directors of training centers (20 @ 4 months)                                               80           9-01-77       o   _
Senior instructors for instructor training
center (4 @ 4 months)                                                                     16           7-01-77
1/ Pre-investment curriculum and equipment development.



Project Item and Type of                                 Total Man/Months and Recommended Beginning Dates
Technical Assistance Required                                Experts          Date        Fellowship        Date
Vocational Training Centers - Industrial
Experts:  (Curriculum and equipment combined)l/
Marine - diesel (1 @ 4 months)                              4             7-01-77
Marine - steam (1 @ 4 months)                               4             7-01-77
Chemical process (1 @ 4 months)                             4             7-01-77
Chemical training and plant layout (1 @ 4 months)           4             7-01-77
Technician Training Institutes (grades 13-14)l/
Experts:
Curriculum and equipment combined: (3 months each)        36              9-15-76
Drafting and design
Refrigeration and air conditioning (2)
Instrumentation and process control (2)
Communications electronics
Mechanical power and automotive
Quality control
Industrial electrical systems
Agri. power and machinery
Civil construction
Electro mechanics             1/
Optics laboratory technician-          1/                3              7_01-77
Elect. and mechanical lab. technician-                    3             7-01-77
Equipment use and maintenance                                                                                       X
training (10 at 3 months)                               30             7-01-78                                    rt
1/ Pre-investment curriculum and equipment development.



Project Item and Type of                                         Total Man/Months and Recommended Beginning Date
Technical Assistance Required                                      Experts       Date        Fellowship        Date
Fellowships:
Ministry planning and supervision
staff (1 at 2 months)                                                                       2           9-01-77
Directors of institutes (5 at 6 months)                                                      30           9-01-77
Head theory and laboratory instructors
(17 at 6 months)                                                                          102           9-01-77
Head workshop instructors (17 at  6 months)                                                 102           9-01-77
Head business instructors (10 at 3 months)                                                   30           9-01-77
Educational Planning Studies
Experts: (1 each at 12 months)
Second-level teacher training                                     12        6-01-77
School mapping                                                    12        6-01-77
Norms and standards for educational buildings                     12        6-01-77
Further development of "educational development
strategy"                                                      12         7-01-77
Further development of "manpower needs" study                     12        7-01-77
Primary Teacher Training Curriculum (2 at 3 months)                   6        7-01-77
Pre-Investment Engineering Designs
Consultant architect                                               6        7-01-77
IN0 > 
m "ii
X MN
rt M4
o   -iH
F-h
-I



ANNEX 18
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PLANNING STUDIES
I. Study on the Education and Training of Second-level Teachers
1.        As a first step towards a possible reform and development of the
education and training system for second-level teachers, this study would be
undertaken in the light of existing weaknesses and imbalances, and taking
account of reforms likely to be introduced in second-level education. The
study would define teacher demand and supply situation in the short and
medium terms and would cover staff requirements for preparatory, secondary
general, secondary technical and comprehensive schools together with primary
teacher training colleges. Recommendations on the training of technical
teachers for second-level schools would represent an important result of the
study.
2.        The study would place major emphasis upon the:  (i) quantitative
and qualitative analyses of the present system, including an evaluation of
organization and methodology; (ii) prognosis and recommendations on future
administrative organization together with assessment of teacher requirements
by category; and (iii) identification of priority areas for investment, and
the definition and costing of proposals for a short-term investment program,
including assessment of physical requirements and preparation of preliminary
drawings.
3.        Draft legislation would also be prepared, if necessary, and recom-
mendations would be made on technical assistance required for training of key
administrative and teaching staff. The study would be completed within 18
months of the Credit Agreement date by Egyptian personnel with the aid of
12 man/months equivalent expatriate consultants.
II. School Mapping Study
4.        In view of the recent delegation of an increasing amount of educa-
tional authority to the provinces, and in recognition of the need to incor-
porate educational planning into integrated regional planning, a pilot
school mapping study covering first and second-level education in a selected
governorate would be undertaken. The study would provide for an assessment
of physical and pedagogical requirements, the identification of investment
priorities, a rational basis for location planning, and the development of a
school mapping methodology adapted to Egyptian circumstances.
5.        The study would consist of a local or micro-plan for educational
development within a selected governorate, and would be prepared within the



ANNEX 18
Page 2
frameworks of national and regional economic planning and of national strategy
for educational development.  The preparpftion of the school map would involve
the three main stages of: (i) diagnosis of the development of the school net-
work through a comparative analysis by catchment area of enrollment, evolution
and origin of students, school location and physical facilities, curriculum
options and teachers, school results and destination of leavers, administra-
tion, costs and financing; (ii) prognosis of network development, including
an analysis of economic and social development in the governorate, demographic
analysis and population forecast, enrollment projection and distribution by
curriculum option; and (iii) proposals for network development to the horizon
year with geographical identification of school locations, assessment of
teacher requirements, costs and financing.
6.        The study, though designed and organized in the Min4stry of Educa-
tion, would be conducted in close collaboration with authorities in the
selected governorate. It would be prepared by Egyptian personnel with 12
man/months technical assistance from an expatriate expert, and would be
completed within 18 months of the Credit Agreement date.
III. Study of National Norms and Standards for Educational Building
7.        Rapid and effective educational development depends a great deal
on efficient provision of suitable and economic school buildings. In the
implementation of its planned school building program, Egypt faces many
financial, functional, technological and administrative problems. This study
would help provide satisfactory solutions to some of these problems through
an analysis of the present situation and the preparation of recommendations
for national norms and standards for educational building. While major
emphasis would be focused on first and second-level education, third-level
would also be included.
8.        The study would include:  (i) a comparative analysis of existing
pedagogical standards related to school building, such as site area, floor
area per student, minimum/maximum school size, utilization rates, etc. and
of architectural standards for teaching/ancillary areas, administration/
circulation areas, area and cost limits, etc; (ii) an appraisal of current
administrative arrangements for implementation of educational building pro-
grams, including location planning, use of standard plans and coordination
of educational building activity; and an assessment of the applicability to
Egyptian conditions of the educational standards used by international or-
ganizations, including IDA, and preparation of a range of norms and standards
for all levels of education, and of recommendations for the improvement of
administrative arrangements for the implementation of educational building
programs.
9.        This study would be completed within 18 months of the Credit Agree-
ment date by Egyptian personnel aided by the equivalent of 12 man/months of
expatriate experts.



ANNEX 18
Page 3
10.       Terms of reference for each of these studies would include defined
objectives, outline of specific tasks required of expatriate experts together
with a statement of government contribution and counterpart responsibilities,
and would have annexed a study outline, a work schedule and a description of
organizational arrangements for implementation of the study. These terms of
reference, which would constitute an integral part of consultant contracts,
would be forwarded to IDA for review and comment within four months of the
Credit Agreement date. Experts and consultants required would be appointed
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.



ANNEX 19
EGYPT
Project Costs by Type of Expenditure
LE (Million)              US$ (Million)
Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total  % of Total
Buildings-/
(i) Construction and/or
Acquisition of
Academic and Communal
Facilities               6.04   2.58      8.62    15.44       6.62    22.06       40.7
(ii) Architects' Fees         0.16   0.00       0.16     0.42      0.01     0.43        0.8
Furniture                       0.37   0.51      0.88     0.94      1.30      2.24        4.1
Equipment                       0.87   7.82      8.69      2.22    20.01    22.23       41.1
7.44  10.91    18.35    19.02    27.94    46.96         86.7
Engineering Preparation
(Architects' Fees - Second
Phase)                        0.28   0.01      0.29     0.71      0.02      0.73       1.3
Technical Assistance
(Specialists and Fellow-
ships)                       0.16   0.65       0.81     0.41      1.65      2.06       3.8
Baseline Cost
(Including Contingencies
for Price Increase)           7.88  11.57    19.45    20.14    29.61    49.75         91.8
Physical Contingencies          0.69   1.05      1.74     1.76      2.66      4.42       8.2
Total Project Cost              8.57  12.62    21.19    21.90    32.27    54.17        100.0
1/ Direct government financing for acquisition of suitable buildings.
Rate of Exchange: US$1.00 = LE 0.391 (April 1976)



ANNEX 20
EGYPT
Unit Costsi/and Areas per Student
(Not Including Evening Class Enrollments)
Type of Facilities                        Area/Student   Furniture    Equipment
m2         -------------  US$    ----
Preparatory Comprehensive School
Academic and Communcal                      2.5                            31
Secondary Comprehensive School
Academic and Communal                       3.8                           212
Technical Teacher Training
School
Academic and Communal                        -              -             2673/
Technician Training Schools
Academic and Communal                       7.5             -           1,068
Academic and Communal                       6.5             -           1,068
Academic and Communal                       8.5             -           1,346
Academic and Communal                       8.3             -           1,291
Technician Training Institutes                7.1             _             927 (1,854)!/
Vocational Training Centers  (MOIMR)
Academic and Communal                        -              -             4873/
Instructor Training Centers
Academic and Communal  (MOIMR)               -              -             333-3
Academic and Communal (MOHAR)              13.0            194          1,213
Vocational Training Centers (MOHAR)
Academic and Communal                      15.0            236            946
1/ Furniture for new construction/acquired buildings only.
2/ Covered areas not included.
3/ Supplementary equipment only.
4/ Cost per student place.



AlA9 REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Contingencv Aliowances
Coveensteni Financed Provi-ion of Boildings                                                                   Second Ph-se
(Ctopoted Costs of Co7struction or Acqui-                                                                  (Ar-hitec-  Pens)
A-hini'SEngin...ring Pe-                                                                                                  Technical A..tst-.c                                                     Tot.l
Civil Works                 Architect Fees F-rnituro                                i_uie-ent                paraLcon                   Specialists               Fellc sh                  Subcotol T1ot;
Lotal       oEnien         Local       Foreign        Local      Forei-n        Local    ,F-nreig         Local      Forecin       Local         ForeiRn      Local        Fqreino       Local       Foreimn lli
_   _   _            .                            _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ej~t                         .         REi-         L  -        F i ~          L9           S
Per-entage of Local and Foreign           70            30             97           3            42           58             10         90           97            3           20             80          20            80
BaselIne Cost (11-30-76)
Millioos LE                             5.28          2.26          0.15         0.00          0.33         0.46          0.79        7.08         0.25        0.01          0.09           0.36        0.06          0.24       6.95          10.41       17.36
Millions US$                           13.51          5.79          0.39         0.01          0.85         1.17          2.01       18.12         0.63        0.02          0.23           0.92        0.15          0.62      17.77          26.65                  44.42
Unfo-esee-  Pbys icl  --cregse
Pe.e.nt                                10           10             10          10             10          10             10         10            10          10            10            10           10            10
Millions LE                             0.53          0.23          0.01         0.Oo          0.03         0.05          0.08       0.71          0.02        0 00          0.01           0.04        0.01          0.02       0.69           1.05        1.74
milli-os US$                            1.35          0.50          0.04         0.00          0.05         0.12           0.20       1.81         0.06         0. 00        0.02           0.09        0.01          0.06        1.76          2.66                    4,42
Subto Cal
Millio.s LE                             5.81          2.49          0.16        0.00           0.34         0.51          0.07        7.79         0.27         0.01         0.10           0.40        0.07          0.26       7.64          11.46       19.10
milli-os US$                           14.86          6.37          0.43         0.01          0.93         1.29          2.21       19.93         0,69        0.02          0.25           1.01        0.16          0.68      19.53          29.31                  48.84
Price Increases
Peectnt                                13           13              7            7            10          10              9.5         9.5         11          11             7              7           6             6
Millions LE                             0.76         0.32           0.01         0.00          0.04        0.05           0.08        0.74         0.03        0.00          0.01           0.03        0.00          0.02       0.93           1.16         2.09
Millions US$                            1,93          0.03          0.03         0.00          0.09         0.13          0.21        1.89         0.08        0.00          0.02           0.07        0.01          0.04        2.37          2.96                    1.3
Total C-ntig.enc.ei
Millions LE                             1.29          0.55          0.02         0.00          0.07         0.10          0.16        1.45          0.05        0.00         0.02           0.07        0.01          0.04        1.62          2.21         3.05
Milliens US$                            3.28          1.41          0.07         0.00          0.17         0.25          0.41        3.70         0.14         0.00         0.04           0.16        0.02          0.10        4.13          5.62                    9.75
Total ProjeeC CoOL
(Including Cootioge-cUeo)
Millions LE                             6.57          2801          0.17         0.00          0.40         0.56          0.95        0.53         0.30         0 01         0.11           0.43        0.07          0.28        0.57         12.62        21.19
Millloos US$                           16.79        7_     /        0.46       _.Ol_            1.02        1.42          2.42       21.82         0.77         0.02-        0.27           1.00        0.17          0,72       71.90         32.27                   54.17
Fri.c  ecaclation computed OD the banis of Following inereases:
- Civil Works                           127 each year (1977-70)
- Architects' FPrs                      127  _ach yeae (1977-7.)
- Furniture .od Equipment                87. eoch year (1977-78)
- Technical AOei.tO-ce                   87 each1 year (1977-78)
Rats of E.c.hng.: US$1.00 = LE 0.391 (officil rote)
1/ Direct governepnt fin-nc-  for cons .    et--io  or purchase of oddtitona.  hucilding.
2I Goveesgsant financed foreign enchange roses.



EGYPT                                     AlNE= 22
Page l of 7
EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
RESPONSI-                        TIMING
Ministry of Education (MOE)                                BILITIES
0
U
%wmw _ w,  Comprehensive Schools
mm.mmm.mmmmmm  Technician Schools                                   o               IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
-aw-w,w_  Technical Teacher Training Institute           -
z         X z - -  Preparation of Schools for proposed  o
second project - architectural                 0   X          1976             1977       1    1978
designs and equipment lists                 0 0               1976             17 O             1978
v         u ~.                            Quarters
a, _I3 E N X      2   3   4   l   2   3    4   5   6   7   8
A. Alterations of existing buildings:
Description of work and contracts                           O   x                        ..ig.     )RI. __
Construction                                               0   X                                   ii mmmi. mi. mmi
B. Architectural Designs:
Selection of consultant architects and engineers               X                     -,  -- R
Preparation of lists
Review and verification of qualifications
Selection of candidates
Submission of the short list and conditions
of contracts to IDA
Signing of contracts and submission of a
copy to IDA
Selection and acquisition of sites and survey plans        0   X                              R
Identification and survey of sites                                                                      R
Acquisition
Submission of site survey plans (and where
applicable, overall development site plan of
existing instititions) and evidence of
acquisition to IDA
Preparation of space standards and briefs for
consultant architects and engineers                        O   x
Space standards and functional specifications                                                       R
Schedules of implevientation
Submission of space standards and schedules
of implementation to IDA
Authorization to architects and engineers to
commence schematic designs
Schematic designs                                          0   X                                  .m, F"Aw e ", R
Preparation of designs
Review and comments
Submission of above documents to IDA
Authorization to architects and engineers to
proceed with the next phase
Design development and total project cost estimates        O   X                                        X-    - R
Preparation of design and detailed cost estimates
Review and comments
Submission of above documents to IDA
Authorization to architects and engineers to
proceed with construction documents phase
Construction documents and final cost estimates            O   X                                          2`, ' " z    R
Preparation of detailed plans, specifications            0
and cost estimates
Preparation of contract conditions for civil
work and bidding documents
Review and verification of construction documents
and bidding conditions
Submission of above documents to IDA



ANNEX 22
page 2 of 7
RESPONSI-                        TIMING
Ministry of Education (MOE) (continued)                 BILITIES                               _
Comprehensive Schools
.uauuu..aa..  Technician Schools                                  o                 IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
~ ~ ~  ITechnical Teacher Training Institute   ,.v
'          ' '  "  Preparation of Schools for proposed     
second project - architectural                               1976             1977       1     1978
designs and equipment lists                       D                                  Quarter
n      X .: .  n;  1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8
o   -   tC  c  C
C. Equipment  and  furniture procurement 
Lists of equipment and furniture,                                           o_s_,             R proueent            R
specifications and cost estimates                                        - _ _   _ 
Preparation of lists, specifications
and cost estimates                                    0        X
Layout plans for fixed equipment                        0   X
Review and comments                                     X         0
Submission of above documents to IDA                              X
Preparation for bidding
Preparation of bid documents, and bidding                                                    R
and contract conditions                                         X
Prequalifications (if applicable)                                 X
Submission of above documents to IDA                              X
Equipment and furniture bidding and contract                                                   L 11
awarding                                                                                          oboes
Invitation to bid                                                 X
Receipt and evaluation of bid offers                    O         X                             T
Submission of evaluation reports to IDA                           X
Contract awarding and submission of copy
of signed contracts to IDA                                      X
Supervision of delivery of equipment and                                                                        _
furniture and installation                                                                                 a.' _   iiuuI 
Provisions for installation of fixed
equipment and furniture                               0   0    X
Inspection and acceptance of equipment
and furniture                                          O        X
Verification of claims for payment                                X
Submission of withdrawal applications to IDA                      X
Equipment use and maintenance training
Training for instructional staff in the use
and maintenance of new types of equipment,             X
under the direction of technical assistance
KEY:    X  Primary responsibility                    R  Review by IDA
0  Secondary responsibility                 R  Review and approval by IDA



EGYPT                                    ANNEX 22
Page 3 of 7
EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
RESPONSI-                          TIMING
BILITIES
Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources (MOIMR)
-A A        Vocational Training Centers                           Q
uumihh9USmiEI Instructor Training Centers
Preparation of Centers for                C-                           IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
proposed second project -       c                   c
architectural designs and                o X  s  c
o  as         1976             1977             1978
equipment lists                               *  a c
(quarters)
'0. E    c C o   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8
A. Architectural Design: 
Selection of consultant architects and engineers               X                           R
Preparation of lists
Review and verification of qualifications
Selection of candidates
Submission of the short list and conditions
of contracts to IDA
Signing of contracts and submission of a copy
to IDA
Selection and acquisition of sites and survey plans        0   X                           s   rvzA
Identification and survey of sites
Acquisition
Submission of site survey plans (and where
applicable, overall development site plan of
existing institutions) and evidence of
acquisition to IDA
Preparation of apace standards and briefs for
consultant architects and engineers                        O   X                     rr s             R R
Space standards and functional specifications
Schedules of implementation
Submission of space standards and schedules of
implementation to IDA
Authorization to architects and engineers to
commence scbematic designs
Schematic designs                                          OX                                 sm -        R
Preparation of designs
Review and comments
Submission of above documents to IDA
Authorization to architects and engineers to
proceed with the next phase
Design development and total project cost estimates        o   x
Preparation of design and detailed cost estimates
Review and comments
Submission of above documents to IDA
Authorization to architects and engineers to
proceed with construction documents phase
Construction documents and final cost estimates                x                                                       R -
Preparation of detailed plans, specifications
and cost estimates
Preparation of contract conditions for civil work
and bidding documents
Review and verification of construction documents
and bidding conditions
Submission of above documents to IDA



ANNEX 22
Page 4 of 7
RESPONSI-                    TIMING
Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources (con't.)    BILITIES
- _    Vocational Training Centers                         l
Eaasmsavil Instructor Training Cente.-s
-" X > Preparation of Centers for proposed                                    IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
second project - architectural de-            -   e       a
and equipoent lists                                U
C       5t C   E O 1976             1977             1978
c  X    9C1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8
B. Equipment and Furniture Procurement:
Lists of equipment and furniture,
specifications and cost estimates                  .     . ,         .    .  ,   mm_i
Preparation of lists, specifications
and cost estimates                                O         x
Layout plans for fixed equipment                     O   x
Review and comments                                 x         O
Submission of above documents to IDA                          x
Preparation for bidding                                                                   R
Preparation of bid documents, and                                                . Em_
bidding and contract conditions                             x
Prequalifications (if applicable)                             x
Submission of above documents to IDA                          x
Equipment and furniture bidding and
contract awarding                                    .. ,,, . l**
Invitation to bid                                             x
Receipt  and evaluation of bid offers               0         X
Submission of evaluation reports to IDA                       X
Contract awarding and submission of copy
of signed contracts to IDA                                  X
Supervision of delivery of equipment and
furniture and installation                                    _.I-
Provisions for installation of fixed
equipment and furniture                           O   x
Inspection and acceptance of equipment
and furniture                                     0   0    X
Verification of claims for payment                            x
Submission of withdrawal applications
to IDA                                                      x
KEY:
X  Primary responsibility           R  Review by IDA
C  Secondary responsibility         R  Review and approval by IDA



EGYPT                                ANNEX 22
Page 5 of 7
EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
RESPONSI-                          TIMING
BILITIES
Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction (MOHAR)                        Q
u.m..m..smmm    New centers to be built (14)                                          IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
(Government financed construction)                     z
4        "  '~     Centers requiring alterations (6)      z0       a
4) X =  r  E      1976             1977       |     1978
Q a        0                       (quarters)
Xii X  X  D    1   2   3. 4   1   2 ,345    6   78
A. Constructions and Alterations:
Selection of consultant architects and engineers                 X             iii              j l
Selection and acquisition of sites and/or buildings          O                        !
Preparation of space standards and briefs for                              urns..
consultant architects and engineers                          0   X
Schematic designs  (Current stage at 8/05/76)                0 | X        mum.
Design development and total project cost estimates            l                   mm R
Preparation of design and detailed coat estimates             iX                         R
Review and comments                                          :X
Submission of above documents to IDA                         .                                    i
Authorization to architects and engineers to
proceed with construction documents phase                    X
Construction documents and final cost estimates                  X                   mm   I
Preparation of detailed plans, specifications and            !
cost estimates
Preparation of contract conditions for civil work
and bidding documents
Review and verification of construction documents
and bidding conditions
Submission of above.documents to IDA
Civil works bidding and contract awarding                        x                          *samuu, mas    
(The construction contract will most likely be
negotiated with government contractors)
Invitation and prequalification (where applicable)
Receipt and evaluation of (bid) offers
Construction supervision                                   l         l                                m  l      l
Continuous on-site supervision
Overall architect/engineer supervision and                                                   i
design implementation
Verification of claims of payment                                 |1l



ANNEX 22
Page 6 of 7
1RESPONSI-
BILITIES                         TIMING
Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction (MOHAR)                       X
(continued)
mmummmummmmmu    New centers to be built (14)                       o
(Government financed construction)                                   IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
z         X  z-Xt   Centers requiring alterations (6)   a    m
ions(6     os  sn c'
'o X   c    n       1976              1977              1978
z a X        o 1 2,3               (quarters)
1   2_3   4    . =   2    3   4   5,6   7   8
B. Equipment and Furniture Procurement:
Lists of equipment and furniture, specifications                                mm.Lm.mi.
and cost estimates                                                                              R -
Preparation of lists, specifications and cost
estimates                                              0         X
Layout plans for fixed equipment                          0    X
Review and comments                                      X          0
Submission of above documents to IDA                               X
Preparation for bidding                                                                    Igloo
Preparation of bid documents, and bidding and                                            m, R
contract conditions                                              X
Prequalifications (if applicable)                                   X
Submission of above documents to IDA                               X
awarding &                                                                                          mmiii miiR
Invitation to bid                                                  X
Receipt and evaluation of bid offers                      0         X
Submission of evaluation reports to IDA                             X
Contract awarding and submission of copy of
signed contracts to IDA                                          X
Supervision of delivery of equipment and                                                                     e   -  ,    -
furniture and installation                                                                                    li mil i liii
Provisions for installation of fixed equipment
and furniture                                           0    X
Inspection and acceptance of equipment and
furniture                                                    0 O   X
Verification of claims for payment                                  X
Submission of withdrawal applications to IDA                       X
KEY:   X  Primary responsibility                    R  Review by IDA
0  Secondary responsibility                  R  Review and approval by IDA



ANNEX 22
Page 7 of 7
EGYPT
EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Respon-
sibilities                    Timing
01.
Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE)                       o          t    44          Implementation Period
Technical Institutes                              .<        E
X X r   SS     1976               1977       1     1978
0~       1   2   3   4   1   2   3  4    5   6 7   8
A.  Completion of construction on new buildings:
Completion of construction on new buildings                                    R
at Alexandria and Benha                                     0    X                                              w-  M  v  -  -  m
B. Alterations of existing buildings:
Description of works and contracts                          0    X                                  R
Construction                                                C    X                                   % mm    -,MA
C. Equipment and furniture procurement;
Lists of equipment and furniture, specifications
and cost estimates                                                            n"AW, v"e t"d  R
Preparation of lists, specifications and                                                   R
cost estimates                                            0         X
Layout plans for fixed equipment                            0    X
Review and comments                                         X
Submission of above documents to IDA                        O         X
Preparation for bidding
Preparation of bid documents, and bidding                                                   - rw  R
and contract conditions                                             X
Prequalifications (if applicable)                                     X
Submission of above documents to IDA                                  X
Equipment and furniture bidding and contract
awarding                                                                                         2 n, r- X  R
Invitation to bid                                                     X
Receipt and evaluation of bid offers                        0         X
Submission of evaluation reports to IDA                               X
Contract awarding and submission of copy
of signed contracts to IDA                                          X
Supervision of delivery of equipment and
furniture and installation
Provisions for installation of fixed                                                                      v f
equipment and furniture                                   0    X
Inspection and acceptance of equipment and
furniture                                                 0    0   X
Verification of claims for payment                                    X
Submission of withdrawal applications to
IDA                                                                 X
Equipment use and maintenance training
Training for instructional staff in the
use and maintenance of new types of
equipment under the direction of tech-
nical assistance
KEY:  X  Primary responsibility                R  Review by IDA
0  Secondary responsibility              R  Review and approval by IDA



ANNEX 23
EGYPT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Accumulated             Undisbursed
Disbursements       Disbursements               Balance
Semestery       Amount   Percent    Amount   Percent         Amount   Percent
First Year                                                      25.00    100.0
1                0.19        0.8        0.19      0.8        24.81      99.2
2                 9.24      36.9        9.43    37.7         15.57      62.3
Second Year
1               14.02       56.1       23.45    93.8          1.55       6.2
2                1.55        6.2       25.00   100.0          0.00       0.0
1/ Beginning date of Credit Agreement.



El   Comprehecsise Schools~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E k~
f  . E   .g.&         ~~~D=snut      9 r.xMf; El sr                     Co .
A    Tehica  Ta cog Scol
,   f  :-- .je;  -             'S;   tS~~~A, Z-
5     L''    :,co on/ Tranin  Cetr In'ust'ia-radon
ARAB  REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                                                           ,,r.
APPRAISAL REPORT                                                                                                          Door
OF FIRST EDUCATION    -                                                 00 ASSIUT                                      - lc 
Ab.u4sl
PROJECT                                             -- -.                       i. 
{       \, >a;>'\OUHAG
==  --5-'        v       . -
(                                    .~~~~~~~~T.
' ~        ~ SAUD   ARBI                          m-ns>
Econr                                                ,eS .
DPU Dy T-her T--g Collge  E-,g-  -- D-g,,)
Tech-,..o T,.,. ng Schools
A    Tech--lu  T--ing Schoos .      giee,    D-sgns)                             A5WAI
)   T. lh,,Ic  T-aher T,-i,,g School                                                       /AIlose 14-.
A    Techn ,s  T,-i,,ng ,nsfltes                                                              KmOmbo
E1   Vocctol T--nig C-nt., H6,ut-r  T,.d-s
0    Voc-t-.1a T--nig C-nt-rInu,      r   T,sd.,fnieri9Dsgs
*1   Voc-t-o.lIsuco T,. , ng C-nt.e  Ind-sr-l Trades-E                                                 ~
.              *t~~~~'    V-ct-.1o T--nig Centers B.Idding T,.d.,                              AS-NAN   M Awn
-Az      *    \lc.l-tIo   Instruct. Tra mng Center B.ld,,,g T-i-e                       S.F.-a Cvc                        2-
Ifial Roads ,s                                                                                ~         ;
App- xm.t. Gov--ort. B-udcre-,- 
=   $ T U R K E Y  -    Y(f:                          K 1-1-er 0    20   40   60   80  100         / S  
A,  I R A N                  Wes 0       2C       40        O       J         -
ARAdRPBL            5AUDI A R A B I A                                           5
I EGP                                                                                          i'2



