72,47,
CONFORMED
CREDIT NUMBER 681 EGT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Education Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 7, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 7, 1977, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and _2fect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education, or
its successors;
(b) "MOHAR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Housing and
Reconstruction, or its successors;
(c) "MOHE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Higher
Education, or its successors; and
(d) "MOIMR" means the Ministry of Industry and Mineral
Resources, or its successors.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4


﻿of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March
15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 1987, and ending
March 15, 2027, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. The following ,)fficials of the Borrower or
their authorized representatives are designated as representa.tives
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions: (a) the Min-
ister of Education with respect to expenditures under Categories
(1), (2), (7) and (8); (b) the Minister of Housing and Reconstruc-
tion with respect to expenditures under Categories (3) and (4);
and (c) the Minister of Industry and Mineral Resources with
respect to expenditures under Categories (5) and (6) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, engineering, financial, architectural
and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. Not later than December 31, 1977, or such later
date as the Borrower and the Association may agree, the Borrower
shall enter into an agreement or agreements satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association with one or more educational insti-
tutions acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, or make
such other arrangements as shall be acceptable to the Borrower
and the Association, for the purpose of (a) providing the Borrower
with the services of consultants and specialists (about 24 man-
years), whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association, to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B (1) (a)
and (c) through (g) of the Project, and (b) assisting the
Borrower in carrying out Part B (2) of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than eighteen
months after the date of this Agreement, or such later date as
the Borrower and the Association may agree, cause the studies
included in Part B (1) (a) of the Project to be completed and
the recommendations arising from such studies promptly to be
sent to the Association for its prompt review and comments.


﻿Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards in-
cident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any in-
demnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Bor-
rower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall rea-
sonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-7-
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation that such land and rights in respect of land are available
for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause all buildings to be
acquired for use as vocational training centers under the Project
to meet the space requirements agreed upon with the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall causez (a) MOE, MOHAR,
MOHE and MOIMR each to assign experienced staff for the purpose
of supervising Project implementation; and (b) MOE to employ
additional architects, as and when needed, to assist the Buildings
Unit of MOE in carrying out its activities under the Project.


﻿- 8-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations, re-
sources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the de-
partments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. Except as the Borrower and the Association may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a) cause to be taken not later than two and one-
half years after the date of this Agreement,
all action necessary to obtain detailed data
on the current needs, and the projected needs
for the next ten-year period, for trained
personnel in each sector of the Borrower's
economy;
(b) not later than one and one-half years after
the date of this Agreement, cause to be
developed, in consultation with the Association,
a tracer system which will enable the Borrower
to chart adequately the attitudes, backgrounds
and achievements in the theoretical and practical
studies of students within the Borrower's
comprehensive schools and their respective job
placement and performance after graduation; and


﻿- 9 -
(c) (i) cause to be established and to be fully opera-
tional in each technician training school and insti-
tute included in the Project by the opening date
of such school and institute, an advisory committee
comprising representatives oi industry, commerce
and government to help assure the continuing
relevance of the instructional programs in the
schools and institutes to the needs of business
and industry; and (ii) cause the existing follow-up
system for tracing graduates' placement and perform-
ance to be improved and applied in the technician
training schools and institutes included in the
Project by the time such schools and institutes
graduate students for the first time.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) operate the educa-
tional institutions included in the Project in accordance with
sound administrative and educational policies and practices and
with due regard to economy; and (ii) cause said institutions to
be staffed with qualified teachers and administrators in adequate
numbers.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the buildings, furniture
and equipment of the educational institutions included in the
Project to be adequately maintained and shall cause all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof properly to be made.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date July 5, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01, 4.02(b) and (c) and 4.03 of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate or on a date twelve years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Economic Cooperation
or the Under-Secretary of State for Economic Organizations and
International Finance of the Ministry of Economy and Economic
Cooperation of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and
Economic Cooperation
8 Adly Pasha Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                Telex:
Ministry of Economy and       GAFEC 348
Economic Cooperation     Cairo
Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
71818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s/ Abdel-Moneim El-Kaissouni
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Robert S. McNamara
President


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
A.   MOE
(1) Equipment:                  5,000,000
(a) imported                                 100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) procured                                 75% of local
locally                                 expenditures
(2) Technical Assistance          800,000
(a) fellowships and                          100% of foreign
expatriate consultant                   expenditures
and specialist services
(b) local consultant and                     80%
specialist services
B.   MOHAR
(3) Furniture and               6,600,0o0
Equipment:
(a) imported                                100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) procured                                75% of local
locally                                 expenditures


﻿- 114 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Technical Assistance          300,000
(a) fellowships and                          100% of foreign
expatriate consultant                    expenditures
and specialist services
(b) local consultant and                     80%
specialist services
C.   MOIMR
(5) Furniture and               2,500,000
Equipment:
(a) imported                                 100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) procured                                 75% of local
locally                                  expenditures
(6) Technical Assistance           6o,ooo
(a) fellowships and                          100% of foreign
expatriate consultant                    expenditures
and specialist services
(b) local consultant and                     80%
specialist services
D.   MOHE
(7) Furniture and
Equipment:                 7,200,000
(a) imported                                 100% of foreign
expenditures


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(b) procured locally                         75% of local
expenditures
(8) Technical Assistance          500,000
(a) fellowships and                          100% of foreign
expatriate consultant                   expenditures
and specialist services
(b) local consultant and                     80%
specialist services
(9) Unallocated                 2,040,000
TOTAL      25,000,000


﻿- 16 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "local consultant and specialist services"
means services provided by a citizen of the Arab Republic of
Egypt or a corporation or firm whose majority beneficial owner-
ship is effectively vested in one or more citizens of the Arab
Republic of Egypt or in one or more of such corporations; and
the term "expatriate consultant and specialist services" means
any other consultant and specialist services.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 17 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $300,000, may
be made in respect of Categories (2), (4), (6) and (8) on account
of payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
September 15, 1976.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Associ-
ation are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or


﻿- 18 -
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in: (a) expand-
ing, diversifying and upgrading primary, secondary, and technical
and vocational education within its territories, including (i) the
construction or acquisition of buildings for, and/or equipping
and furnishing of, the institutions included in the Annex to this
Schedule, as such Annex may be amended from time to time, (ii) the
increasing and upgrading of the training of primary school teachers,
technical and vocational teachers and workshop instructors of the
above institutions, and (iii) introducing comprehensive preparatory
and secondary schooling, on a pilot basis, to provide more instruc-
tion in practical courses; and (b) improving planning of education
training and manpower development through anpropriate studies.
The Project consists of:
Part A:   (1) Construction or acquisition of buildings for, and
furnishing and equipping of, vocational training
centers and instructor training centers (MOHAR),
and technical training institutes (MOHE).
(2) Furnishing and equipping of:
(a) comprehensive nilot schools, technician train-
ing schools and a technical teacher training
school (MOE);


﻿- 20 -
(b) industrial vocational training centers and
industrial instructor training centers (MOIMR);
and
(c) technical training institutes (MOHE).
Part B:   (1) (a) Educational planning studies (MOE).
(b) Pre-investment architectural designs for
schools not included in Part A of the Project
(MOE and MOIMR).
(c) Teacher training in use and maintenance of
instructional equipment (MOE and MOHE).
Cd) Initiation of new training courses in the
industrial and building trades (MOIMR and
MOHAR).
(e) Development of curricula and equi-ment lists
for technical training institutes (MOHE).
(f) Preparation of basic equipment lists as re-
quired for comprehensive schools (MOE).
(g) Development of curricula and preparation of
equipment lists for about 23 education and
training institutions not included in Part A
of the Project (MOE, MOHE and MOIMR).


﻿- 21 -
(2) Provision of about 65 man-years of fellowship
and overseas training for selected and qualified
teaching and administrative staff.
*         *         *         *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1978.


﻿- 22 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Capacity
List of Institutions            Existing    New       Location
Comprehensive Schools:
Comprehensive Lower Secondary      480    48o    Tanta
Comprehensive Upper Secondary    2,160           Tanta and Souhag
Four Technician Training Schools   4,200           Tanta, Shoubra,
Aswan, Mostorod
Technical Teacher Training
School                           1,500           Kobba
Vocational Training Centers:
Ten Industrial Trades Centers    8,570           Cairo (5), Alex-
andria (2), Port
Said, El Mansoura,
Qena
Industrial Trades In-
structor Center                    200           Cairo
Twenty Building Trades                  6,000    Greater Cairo (3),
Centers                                          Port Said, Zifta,
Dananhour,
Desouk, Kafr El
Sheik, Zagazig,
El Mansoura,
Kafr Saad,
Ashmoon, Berkit
El Saba, El
Fayoum, Belbis,
Beni Suif, Assiut,
Qena, Aswan,
El Wasta
Three Building Trades                     600    El Mansoura,
Instructor Centers                               ismailia, Beni
Suif
Technical Training                 5,400 6,000     Alexandria,
Institutes                                        Aswan, Benha,
Mataria, Zagazig


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of more
than $50,000 shall be procured in accordance with procedures con-
sistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   To the extent practicable, equipment shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent each.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in Part A.1 above:
(a) contracts for: Ci) equipment which cannot be grouped
in accordance with Part A.2 above and which are each estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less, (ii) specialized
items, acceptable to the Association, and (iii) furniture, may
be procured on the basis of competitive bidding in accordance
with procurement procedures of the Borrower, acceptable to the
Association, provided, however, that (A) for equipment and
specialized items contracts, quotations shall be obtained from
at least three suppliers, and (B) for furniture contracts, items


﻿-214 -
shall be grouped to the extent possible in large packages to
permit such bulk procurement as shall be possible, consistent with
sound procurement practices; and
(b) Contracts for equipment which the Association agrees
must be compatible with other equipment procured in accordance
with Part A.1 above, may be procured under negotiated contracts,
acceptable to the Association, with the manufacturers of such
equipment.
2.   Contracts for equipment or for specialized items procured by
each Ministry of the Borrower in accordance with the Drocedures
set forth in Part B.1 above shall in the aggregate not exceed 20%
of the total cost of equipment and specialized items procured
under the Project by such Ministry, provided, however, that the
aggregate amount of contracts so procured by all Ministries under
the Project shall not exceed $4,400,000 equivalent.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 25 -
2.   Goods manufactured in the Arab Republic of Egypt may be granted
a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the folloving three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Arab
Republic of Egypt if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Arab Republic of
Egypt equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Arab Republic of Egypt.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be


﻿- 26 -
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decision by the Association
1.   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall send to the
Association for its approval:
(a) lists of all items of equipment and furniture required
for the Project, incorporating specifications and the estimated
unit and total price for each item, indexing and coding the same
to identify education and training institutions for which items
are required, and identifying all items or categories of items
estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $10,000 and


﻿-27 -
indicating the grouping proposed to permit such bulk procurement
as shall be consistent with sound technical and procurement
practices;
(b) the text of the invitations to bid together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, the draft bid documents and draft contracts.
2.   The Borrower shall make such modifications in the documents
referred to in Part D.1 above as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to said documents shall re-
quire the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
3.   Financing out of the proceeds of the Credit will be limited
to those items of furniture and equipment on the lists and state-
ment sent to the Association under Part D.1 above and identified
in contract documents by the same indexes, codes and numbers as
in such lists.
4.   After bids have been received and evaluated:
(a) in any case where it is proposed to award a contract to
other than the lowest evaluated bidder, or where a proposed award
involves a difference in price of 15% or more from the original
estimate as shown pursuant to Part D.1 above, or where such an
award involves a contract for the purchase of equipment to be
awarded in accordance with Part A.1 above, the Borrower shall
obtain the Association's comments before making an award, and to


﻿- 28 -
this end shall furnish the Association, in sufficient time for
its review, a summary and analysis of the bids received, together
with justification (with due regard to conformity with specifica-
tions and to price) for the proposed award, and the Association
shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it has any objection
to the intended award and shall state the reasons for any objec-
tion it may have; and
(b) in all other cases the Borrower may defer submission of
bid analysis and justification to the Association until contracts
have been awarded.
5.   Pro.mptly after a contract has been signed and before submis-
sion to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds in respect of such contract, the Borrower shall send to
the Association two certified copies of the contract awarded
and such other information as the Association may reasonably
request.
6.   The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower if it
finds that the award of the contract is not consistent with the
Guidelines or with the provisions of this Schedule, or if its
terms and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence,
materially differ from those on which bids were asked and in such
event, no expenditures under such contract shall be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


