Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C / /6 tŽY Ht
Report No. 6024-RW
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RWANDA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
March 6, 1986
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restrieted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(August 1985)
Currency Unit              -              Rwandese Francs (RF)
US$1.00                                  RF 99
RFIOO                                     US$1.01
MEASURES
I meter                    -              3.28 feet-
I kilometer                -              0.62 mile
1 square kilometer         =              0.39 square mile
I hectare                  3              2.47 atres
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BUFMAR                 -       Bureau des Formations M6dicales Agre6es du
Rwanda
CCCD                   -       Combatting Chilhood Communicable Diseases
CRS                    -       Catholic Relief Services
CUSP                   -      Centre Universitaire de Sante Publique
EDF                    -       European Development Fund
EEC                    -      Eurcpean Economic Community
EPI                    -      Expanded Program on Immunization
FP                     -      Family Planning
RC                     -       Health Center(s)
i[C                           Information, Education and Communication
INTRAH                        International Training in Health (Chapel Hill
University)
IPPF                   -      International Planned Parenthood Federation
IUD                    -      Intra-Uterine Device
JHPIEGO                -      Johns Hopkins Program for International
Education in Gynecology and Obstetrics
MCH                    -       Maternal and Child Health
MOHSA                  -      Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
MINEPRISEC             -      Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education
MINIFINECO             -      Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
NC                     -      Nutrition Center(s)
NGO-                          Non-governmental Organization
ONAPO                  -      Office National de la Population
OPHiAR.                -      Office Pharmaceutique du Rwanda
SFCS                   -      Service de Financement et de Constructions
Scolaires
STD                     -     Sexually Transmitted Diseases
UNFPA                  -      United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF                 -      United Nations Children's Fund
USAID                  -      United States Agency for International
Development
WHO                     -     World Health Organization
GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA-FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STF  APPRAISAL RIT
Definitions ..........  ....*...........-..*...     ii
Credit and Project  suwary ........................................ iv
Project CcOt Summary Net of Taxes ......                                  v
I.
-  A.  Booncmic and Social Setting ...........I1
B.  Population, Health and Nutrition Status ..................  2
C.  Pvuation Policy and Activities .......................... 4
D.  DBalth Policy and Services .............................    8
II.            ML=  AM BAt  EppEJC
A. Sectoral Strater              a     t     e     g     y     - ...............  16
B.  Bank Lending Strategy .....................................    16
C.  Bank Experienoe ........................................... 17
III. InjtDC
A.  Project Cbjectives and Camposition ....................... 18
B.  Detailed Project Features               ............           20
IV.  _SMT-M         _UWJUPW(             MA
A.  Project Cost                      goo6*-  -            *        27
B. Fi$nang                            ........  29
C. Procurement                                                     31
D.  _ibrSMn  .................... ......                              33
VI.       W
A.  Benefits ,                                                      37
B. Risks ......  38
VI.                        ............................... 38
4.1       Project Cost Summary by C.t..o     t ................. ....  27
4.2       Estimated Price Im.-reases .............. ...... .......... 29
4.3       Financing Plan and Cost Simmry by Expenditure Category.. 30
4.4       Procuremint Arrangnts. ................................ 31
This report is based on findings of an appraisal wvls Ln ocaprising Dr. B.
Liese, Dr. J. Bawdbuy and Ms. Y. Powers (IB) and tMr. -. Naleppa and mr.
J. Allmann (consultants) which visited Rwanda in Ju.Ly-ugust, 1985.
This document has a restted distribution and msay be ased by recipients only in the porfomance1
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Word Bank authorization.



Table of Cg,tets  (continued)                       -      -            S8
A?~1
Table  1: Population and Density by Prefecture .............. 40
Table  2: Population Projections under Alternative
Asuqptions .................~.. ..,                 41
Table 3: Number of Health Facilities and Hospitals Offering
Family Planning Service and aumber of Users by
Prefecture (1984)       .........      ........ .. 42
Table 4: New Cntraceptive Acceptors by MNthod 1980-1984 ... 43
Table 5:  Projection of Users by Contraceptive Metbod in  -
Health Centers Cnly             .......             44
Table  6: Projection of Users by Contraceptive Metbod in
Health Centers and Hospitals  ............** 44
Table 7:  Projection of Acceptors and Users
and Birth Averted ......................*..**.** 45
Table  8: Contraceptive Method Mix *0**0**0**....0.0S    ......... 45
Table  9: Five Principal Causes of Reported Morbidity ....... 46
Table 10l  Trends for Four EPI Diseases ...................... 46
Table 11:  Principal Causes of Death in Hospitals ........*....  47
Table 12:  Surveys of Nalnutrition-mwimary of Findings ...... 48
Table 13: Trends on Food Crop Production, Acreage
and Yields ..*.......**....***..*R..S************* 49
Table 14:  Hum      ources Projections 19851990 ............. 50
Table 15: Projectios of Average Nwrter of Paramedical
Personnel by Govemment Health Center .    ............ 51
Tae 16: Staffing Pattem for A3 Schools ....................  52
Table 17:  in-Service Training for a Medical Region .......... 53
Table 18:  Sources of Drugs, 1984       ............................ 54
Table 19:  Bealth Recurrent Expenditure Financing
by Source, 1984  .     .........        ..       * 55
Table 20: IOWA, Budet, 1984/1985 ........................... 56
Tabl,j 21:  List of 25 Health Centers ......................... 57
Table 22:  Summary of Tecbnical Assistance ................... 58
Table 23:  Key Project Indicators .......................      59
A*N=E  2
Detailed Cost Tables *...............,...*   *..*..*... 60 - 69
Am*=c 3
- IJlementation Schedule for Non-construction Activities ..g... 70
Imp}ementakion Schedule Civil Works      .......................... 71
Estinated Schedule of D.sbursements  ..........0..... 72



Trbl of Q2ntents (otinued)                                  '
ANNEX 4
Proposed Poplation Policy Stuadies ................**......... 73
ARME 5
Nutrition Centers Performance                                     74
ANNEX 6
Nm Weaning Food  .............7..................6..... + . * 76
ANNEK 7
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File .... 77
Chart 1: Organization Chart of Ministry of Bealth (ENOR    ... 79
Chart 2:  Organization Chart of ON    ............  80
Fdarida Family Health Project ........... . .    IBM 19455



RiANDA: FAMILY UBALlE PiRJBCr
Basic Data
Total Area                                          26,340km2
rotal Population (estimate, 1985)                   6 million
Current Growth-Rate p.a.                            3.7Z
Density per km2 (estimate, 1985)                    230
Density per km2 Arable Land (estimate, 1985)        500
total Fertility Rate (1983)                         8.4
Crude Birth Rate (1983)                             54 per 1000
Crude Death Rate (1983)                              17 per 1000
Life Expectancy at Birth (1983)                     47 years
Infant Mortality Rate (estimate, 1983)              125 per 1000
Child Death Rate (estimate, 1983)                   250 per 1061
Rural Population (estimate, 1983)                    95%
Adult Literacy Rate (1982)                          37%
Primary School Enrollment (1984)                    651
Secondary School Enrollment (1984)                  5%
Age Structure (1983)
0 - 14                                    49%
15 - 64                                    41%
65 - above                                 10%
Population per Physician                            26,000
Population per Nurse                                4,300
Population per Hospital Bed                         630
Daily per capita calorie supply
(as percentage of requirements)           88%
GNP per capita (1983)                               US$270



- ii -
RVhMD&: FAMILY UKALTS PROJICT
Deflnitions
Adult Literacy Rate           :   The percentage of persons aged 15 and
over who can read and write.
Case Fatality Rate            :   Percentage of deaths due to a disease
among the total number of people who have
contracted the disease.
Child Death Rate              :   The number of deaths among children one
to four years of age per 1,000 children
in that age group in a given year.
Crude Birth Rate                   The number of births per 1,000 population
in a given year.
Crude Death Rate              :   The number of deaths per 1,000 population
in a given year.
Incidence Rate                :   The number of new cases of a disease
which occur in a population during a
specified period of time. Usually
expressed as the number of cases per
1,000 persons.
Infant Mortality Rate         :   The number of deaths of infants under one
year of age in a given year per 1,000
live births in that year.
Life Expectancy at Birth      :   Number of years a newborn child would
live if subject to the mortality risks
prevailing for the cross-section of a
population at time of birth.
Maternal Mortality Rate       :   The number of deaths to women who die due
to pregnancy and childbearing
complications in a given year per 1,000
live births in that year.
Morbidity                     :   The frequency of disease in a population.



- ii$ -
Prevalence Rate               :   The total number of people affected by a
disease estimated either at a specific
time (point prevalence) or over a stated
period (period prevalence) expressed per
1,000 population (in case of low figures,
prevalence is expressed per 100,000
population).
Total Fertility Rate          :   The average number of children that would
be born alive to a woman during her
lifetime if she were to pass through her
childbeating years conforming to the
age-specific fertility rates of a given
year; serves as an estimate of average
number of children per family.



XVAUD: FAMILY hEALT PMOJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Rwandese Republic
Beneficlary:          Ministry of Health and Soctal Affairs (MOHSA),
including National Office of Population (ONAPO);
Ministry of Liucation (MINEPRISEC).
Amount:                SDR 9.8 million (US$10.8 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms
Project Description:
i)  Objectives:  (a) make family planning (FP) services
available in all health facilities as part of the maternal
and child health (MCO) program; (b) improve the quality and
increase the coverage of MCH services; (c) target and
integrate nutrition activities into MCH services; (d)
strengthen the institutional capacity of MOHSA at the
central and regional levels; (e) increase the output and
improve the quality of basic paramedical training programs;
and (f) improve ONAPO's data base for population policy
formulation.
(ii) Components: The project would provide for: (a)
strengthening of Family Health Services through support to
restructuring the MCH program, including the addition of an
FP component nationwide, provision of medical supplies
(including contraceptives) and upgrading/reequipping of 30
health centers (BCs); (b) institutional strengthening of
MOBSA at the central and regional levels; (c) assistance to
human resovrces development through in-service
MCH/FP/Nuttition training for 1,400 RC staff, with
particular emphasis on 200 (M) nurses aides and
construction of two new nursing (A3) schools; (d) financing
of two studies intended to lead to the strengLhening of
population policy; and (e) project management services.
(iii) Benefits and Risks:  MOHSA will be considerably strengtb..ened
in terms of more and better qualified staff as well as tite
improvement of its infrastructure, particularly locally.
The main beneficiaries as a result would be the most
vulnerable population groups--fertile women and children
under five. The introduction of a new weaning food is a
specific benefit. The major risk is MHOSA's limited,
administrative capacity, which this project seeks to help
overcome.



RVADA: FAhILY hALT POIJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY NET OF TAXES
(US$ '000)
Local  Foreign   Total
A. Strengthening Family Health Services
In-service Training Program                            421       57      479
Medical Supplies                                        -       278      278
Rehabilitation/Upgrading of HCs       -               1,138   1,765    2,902
Sub-total Strengthening Family Health Services       1,559   2,099    3,658
B. Institutional Strengthening
Central Level                                          167   1,257    1,423
Regional Level                                          750   1,011    1,761
Sub-total Institutional Strengthening                  916   2,268    3,184
C. Human Resources Development
Recruitment/Training of Nurses Aides A4                858        0      858
Training of A3 Nurses                                1,209   1,211    2,419
Sub-total Human Resources Development                2,066   1,211    3,277
D.  Population Policy Studies                                113     119      232
E.  Project Management                                       368     555      923
F.  Refunding of PPF                                         176     264      440
Total Baseline Costs                                       5,199   6,517   11,715
Physical Contingencies                                  79      114      193
Price Contingencies                                  1,292   1,251    2,543
Total Project Costs                                        6,569   7,882   14,45
Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange/Local
(US$)
International              Government
Development  World Health    of
Association  Organization  Rwanda         Total
Amount       Amount       Amount        Amount
I.   Foreign                   7,063,037      725,375        93,203    7,881,615
II.  Local (Excl.Taxes)        3,740,048         -       2,829,358    6,569,406
Total Project                 10,803,085      725,375    2,922,561   14,451,021



- vi -
Estimated Disbursements
FY87     FY88      FY89     FY90      FY91     FY92
Annual                 0.6      2.0       2.8      2.9       1.9      0.6
Cumulative             0.6      2.6       5.4      8.3      10.2     10.8
Project Completion Date
December 31, 1991
MAP: IBRD 19455



I. 1
A.     =11rncad  ilSetn
1.01-    Rvtanda is a  maLl, landlocked East African country covering
awrouiaately 26,000 km'. Nountains with plentiful rainfall rise in the
west and slope dom to drier hills in the east. There are volcanic high-
lands in the northeastemn comer. The Akagera National Park runing alao
the eastern border with Tanzania contains almDst 10% of the nation's land.
The Zaire Nile divide runs North and South tbrough the length of the
country. The capital city, Kigali, is mDre than 1,700 km by road from the
nearest ports of Ibwah and Dar-es-Salaam. Transportatin costs are very
high.
1.02     With 230 people per kn2, R1anda is Africa's nost dnsly populated
country. About 95% of the people live in rural areas on small subsistenc
fan  (about one bectare per family) scattered across the hills. Bmlets
and villages are very few and only about ten tow  have        o xceed-
ing 5,000. Per capita income is about US$270 (1983), placing 1wmda
in the grop of "least deelop    countries. Agriculture is the dminant
sector of the econay, aocounting for almost half of the GDP and 75% of
total export earnings. About half the total area is currently epoitable
for agricultural       . Of this, 50% is planted with food crops: bes,
sweet potatoes, cassava, banana and sorghum (and more recetly, potatoes#
maize and peas). About 5% is under export crops-minly coffee, but also
tea-and approximately 40% is used as pasture land, wodlots and fallow.
While    da's econic perfonnce  ring the 1970's was excellent-thanks
to good weather, frae world markets and sozd economic policies-the
outlook today  ppears mre precarious.  The possibilities for diversifi-
cation of the eamoq are lmited by Rwandasl lack of natual resources and
geographical isolation. Market forecasts for the major export crops are not
favorable, and increasing food production to keep pace with rapid o i
growth will require significant iprovnts n methods and inputs.



-2-
1.03     bnda becae independent from Belgium in 1962, and since 1973 has
bee  govened by the President and the  UmML 1&ItIonnaire P03r _a
D&Igowwtv which he fouded. The national language is Rinyarwanda, a
Bantu tongue and a minority of the people also speak French. The majority
of the people are Catholic, reflect:ing the influence of missionaries who
first cm  to Amnda before World War I. About one third of the population
is literate.
~~~EB. th
1.04        i                        The 1978 oensus enumerated a popula-
tion of 4.8 million, and the 1985 population is estivated at 6 million. -he
age structure is very young-about 49% of the population is under 15 years
of age. The population is relatively evenly distributed (see Annex 1, Table
1). The crude birth rate (54 per 1000), the total fertility rate (8.4) and
the population growth rate (3.7% per annum) are among the highest in the
world. The rate of natural increase of the population is likely to rise
even further in the near future as mortality declines.
1.05     In the past, spontaneous net emigration mainly to Uganda but also
to Zaire, Tazania and Burundi reduced the overall rate of national popula-
ticn growth significantly. This safety valve has nrow been largely closed by
the economic and political changes in Uganda, the exnomic problems of
Tanzania, and the continuing population pressure on the land in the Kivu
province of Zaire. The most izportant internal flow is a rural to rural
MDVeuint of subsistence fanrs out of the ares of heaviest rural densities
to the relatively less densely populated and less exploited East. The
secnd strean is rural to urban, chiefly into the capital, Kigali, which
grew at an anmual rate of 9% during the 1970's and now has probably about
200,000 inhabitants.
1.06         lat=igaPioJm;tig.  Population projections for the period
1985-2015 have b    made (see Anex 1, Table 2). All assume continuously
declining mortality, in acowrdance with the standard path used for projec-
tions in the 1984 World Develolmnt Report. Three different assumptions
about trends in fertility, and two about migrations have been used. The
fertility assumptions are: no fertility decline; a gradual decline starting
In 1995; and a rapid decline after 1985. The gradual decline oorresponds to
the likely spontaneous evolution of fertility with eomciic develoment,
while the rapid decline represents the possible result of an effective
family planning program. The two migration assumptions are: no emigration;
and emigrati$n of 600,000 people between 1985 and 1995, such as might cocur
under a major offical program to promte it.
1.07     Major population growth is inevitable for Rwanda. As Table 2 of
Annex 1 shows, under the most optimistic assumptions (rapid fertility
decline and emigration of about half a million people), the population will
double by 20157 under the worst (witl, the current rate of popuLation growth
prevailng and no emigration abroad), it will more than triple and reach



-3-
22.3  llion. Moreover, growth rates will reain high enough at the end of
the projection period to permit a further doubling of the poPulation witlin
the following 20 to 25 years.
1.08     The country does not have the capacity to a           dte  this
growth.  Rwanda's agricultural performne over the past decade has bee
excellent, with production keeping pace with population growth. But the
increase in food production cmannc be sustained, because the intensification
of cultivation has led to deforestation, erosicn and a decrease in soil
productivity. As land reserves vanish, it will be a difficult challenge for
krianda to develop and apply, within 30 years' time, agricultural telogy
and methods adequate to support the projected 800 peple per m2 of agricul-
tural land. The effect of population growth an oonsuwtion needs will be
ist strongly felt in the area of food availability. The nutritional situa-
tion and its uwertain prospects are described in paras. 1.12 and 1.39.
population growth will also increase the deund for sobs, housing, water,
electricity, scwoling and health care. This increasing pressure on the
comtry's social and econmic systems makes the need for large-scale efforts
to reduce fertility more urgent.
1.09            *Ult .  As in must sub-Sahran African countries, health
conditions are poor, particularly for womn and children. Life expectany
is 47 years, infant mortality is estimated at 115-125 per thousand and about
one-fourth of the children die before age 5.  Rwanda"s diseae pattem  is
dominted by a small nuter of illnesse, and disproWprtionately affects
young children and women of child bearing age. The five leading causes of
reported morbidity (Annex 1, Table 9) are communicable diseases primarily
affecting children under 5 years of age. The leading causeF of death among
children are malaria, measles, diarrheal diseases and acute respiratory
infections. Malnutrition contributes to the high mrtality, particularly
from measles and diarrhoea. Many of these deaths can be prevented with an
effective MNC program including imunization, oral rebydration, systematic
chenrtherapy for malaria and nutrition activities.
1.10     For womn in the reproductive ages of 15 to 49 yea=, mDst deaths
are related to pregnancies.    aternal mrtality is difficult to estimate
since ninety percent of deliveries take place at hom, with no sdical
assistance. In health facilities, maternal nxrtality is about three per
thousand births. Cbstetrical problem are among the ten top causes of
deaths in hospitals. Major causes of this grim picture are the absence of
birth spacir.g and inadequate prenatal care, particularly the lack of early
identification of pregnancies at risk.
1.11     While communicable diseases dominate Rwanda's health picture,
several other problems are of growing importance. Sexua.Uy transmitted
diseases (SUrs) are exceeded only by malaria as a cause of illness among
adults. 9TDs are a problem becas  resistanoe to antibiotics is spreading
rapidly.   The use of condom, the early detection of the disease and the
development of standardi2ed treatment can contribute substantially to the
reducLion of this problem. I,ad accidents have increased dramatically and



-4-
appear to be one of the major causes of deaths among young male adults (a
major road safety program is being launched under Bank-financed Sixth
Highway VI project), while liver diseases, mainly cirrhosis and liver
cancer, are a major cause of death among adults. Principal caue probably
are alcoholism and the high prevalence of hepatitis B viral infections.
1.12         Nutdrion faft.  Malnutrition is a widespread problem in
Rwanda. Several nutrition studies have found about one third of the
children to be suffering  from sme  degree of protein-calorie malnutrition
(see Annex 1, Table 12). Malnutrition of children is one of the six
ammoest caus  of death (see Annex 1, Table 11) and also contributes to
the higb mortality from measles and diarrhoea. Data on wotn's malnutrition
are more scanty but there is evidence that pregnt and lactating wma
suffer frequently from malnutrition and anemia. Causes of mlnutrition are
multiple and interrelated. A major cause is limited food production and
dvailability. The daily per capita calorie supply represents 88% of re-
quirements. Over the past decade, total production of food crops has
increased over 50% but this increase has just been sufficient to keep pace
with population growth (see Annex 1, Table 13). Furthermore, the
larn/population ratio shows a continuously unfavorable trend. Another nega-
tive factor is the coa ,osition of the food crop which works against dietary
adequacy. The usual diet is poor in fat which accounts for only 5-10% of
total calories instead of the recamnended 15-20%. Other causes of malnutri-
tion are the ones found in most developing countries: parents' lack of
education (particularly of women) leading to inappropriate feeding practices
during the weaning period, short intervals between births, and high
incidence of infectious diseases (particularly diarrbeal diseases and
measles). In order to arrive at a better more systematic assessment of the
nutrition status in Raanda, MOHSA is developing a nutrition surveillance
system with the tecbnical and financial support of the European Development
Pund.
C.      ation Policy and Activities
1.13                PoliQc. Througbout the 1970s the Govemnment expressed
increasing concem about rapid population growth. In 1974 it created a
Scientific Advisory Comcil to study the problem and nake reccmaridations
for bringing about a balance between production ad demographic growth. The
Seond Five-Year Developnt Plan (1977-81) included among its objectives
the strengthening of public awareness of the demographic problem and the
prmotion of relevant "educational and preventive actions. With the cre-
ation of the        National de la  gonlatio  (CWO) in January 1981 and
the launching of the Third Five-Year Plan (1982-86),r Gonernnut emphasis has
cbanged from analysis of the problem to developnnt of specific objectives
and action programs. The demographic policy expressed in the third plan is
to stabilize demgraphic growth at the present rate of 3.7% per year and to
put in place the conditions necessary for the eventual reduction in growth
that is indispensable. Several measures are envisaged to meet this objec-
tive: provide family planning services nationwide; raise the legal mninimum
age of marriage; carry out socio-demographic studies, notably a national



fertility survey; and organize mDtivational caupaigns on fadly planning so
as to reach the entire population by 1986.  The Govenmnt has initiated
discussions with neighboring countries to explore possibilities for a policy
on external migration, and has indirectly encouraged internal migration
through rural developnt- activities in less densely populated areas.
1.14     CAPO, the lead agency in population policy formulation and coor-
dination, has a mandate to study the relationships between population growth
and socio-eonomic development; to nsensitize all levels of the population
to the demgrapic problem; and to carry out a research, evaluation and
program development.  Objectives for the Fourth Plan (1987-1991) are
presently being finalized. During the December 1985 seminar on population,
CPO proposed to set up a family norm of four children for the Fourth Plan.
This proposal has stiU to be discussed by the Govement. Officials are in
the process of translating the broad policy of reducing population growth
into detailed action programs for family planing and fertility reduction.
However, because of religious sensitivities and cultural traditions
regarding population control measures, the Gavenment is cautious about
setting up ambitious targets for reducing fertility. The Catholic Church in
Rwanda is aware of the population problem and promotes only natural family
planing mthods.
1.15     Strategies concerming the population program have been evolving
since QNKPO's creation. The 1981-1983 period was marked by major efforts to
develop population related Information# Education and Communication (IEC)
activities throughout the country. A broad range of ministries, government
leaders and administration officials participated under CUMF leadership.
In 1984, efforts began to focus on family planning service delivery, since
awareness and demand bad begun to increase. The Government decided to take
advantage of WOHSO's existing health facilities for delivery of family plan-
ning services, but allowed CNMV to continue focusing on socio-demographic
issues, vultisectoral programs, and its IEC, research, training and monitor-
ing activities. In January 1984, it combined the Ministry of Social Affairs
(which included OQP) with the Ministry of Health to facilitate implennta-
tion of this strategy. This action brought under the umbrella of MMS the
strong cadre of OWNPO's specialist staff and mmiagers who can now be used to
make a major contribution to the implementation of a national family
planning program. As family planning services become available in health
facilities, CON^P will begin to explore possibilities for a non-medical,
ccmmunity-based contraceptive distribution system. Surveys and operational
research studies will be needed to develop this new type of approach involv-
ing social marketing techniques.
1.16              Lo  and            of .the   ploC                       is
a parastatal agency under the umbrella of MCRL (see organizational chart).
Its administrative council (the Secretaries General of Health and Education
are on this council), which comprises senior civil servants, pbysicians,
academics and others, approves the annual budget and work plan. OMMIV has
127 employees, of whom about 50 are professionals, including sociologists,
demographers, social workers, nurses, physicians and educators.  There are



-6-
three operating divisions: studies, evaluation and research; medical
policy, and education, training and informtion.
1.17     At the central level, OIN('s Director reports to the Minister of
Health and Social Affairs and is fully accontable for all key decisions.
Although decision-making is centralized in the office of the Director, CUM()
has organized regional teams comprising a physician, a medical assistant, a
nurse and a social worker for helping M(M  iuplement its FP program. SincO
Oa0 does not have a separate service delivery network, these team work
under the administrative direction of VOMHI's regional health directors,
thus providing the regional offices with much needed staff especially
trained in, and solely responsible for, FP activities. Actual delivery of
PP services is undertaken by MOESM field staff, acting under the technical
guidance of ONAP3 specialists. The ONAPO teams also carry out motivational
programs designed by the ONPO central office.
1.18     Population Inomtion. Eduan and    [mion                       In
Septester 1982, ONAPO organized a national colloquium on "Family, Population
and Development,I which was attended by about 200 persons including depu-
ties, camnumity leaders, civil servants, physicians, religious leaders and
other influential people. Having been favorably received and widely
publicized, it represented a breakthrough in public awareness of the
issues.  IEC programs are now being targeted at several ministries and
groups specifically concerned with development. These multi-sectoral
activities funded by USATD and other donors include:  (i) developing an
in-school population education program executed by the Ministry of Primary
and Secondary Education (NOPC    EC); (ii) collaborating with the Ministry
of Planning in determining population policies to be included in the next
(1987-1991) Economic, Social and Cultural Plan; (iii) assisting the Ministry
for Coonunity Developant and National Revlutionary  bovement for Develop-
ment (NRMD) with ccmmity developint and promotional activities; (iv)
working with the Ministry of Professional Training and Civil Service, the
Ministry of Agriculture, and the Ministry of Youth and Cooperatives to add
population activities to their programs; (v) coordinating with the Defense
Ministry to establish PP services in its health facilities and to educate
military personnel about population issuest and (vi) sponsoring, with the
National Information Office, programs using mass media to educate the popu-
lation.  In addition, numerous population education seminars have been held
with key administrative officials (AMW*                      and chefs de
==ice) throughout the comtry since 1983. Most governrt officials and
politically active citizens are now clearly aware -of the Govement's
decision to deal effectively with the population problem.
1.19     Since January 1983, ON1PO has also used the radio for disseni-
nating FP messages.  Radio is Rwanda's mDst important mass medium and
reaches at least 80% of homes. ONAPO has produced a popular weekly
15-minute radio program about the impact of rapid population growth and
large family size. The program's format includes dramas, interviews and
discussions and lectures.  ONAPO also records short "conmercials' and
traditional style topical songs. At present, the equipnent and expertise of



-7-
COtI's radio team are limited, but a USAID project will provide adequate
funds to neet its needs. Information activities using other media are stll
at an early stage: a few newspaper articles and brochures have been
published, and a film an a play have been prepared.
1.20     At the ecomunity level, OWt's strategy is to sensitize local
officials and commity workers at the prefecture level through three-day
seminars conducted by ONWPO staff.  Local officials and commmuity workers
then conduct shorter informational sessions for the general public. The
meetings consist of oral presentations and a questioztanswer session,
followed by an opportunity for people to question the speakers privately.
These gatherings are proving an effective way of promoting the subject of
fertility reduction because they are easy to organize, take place in an
informal setting, and include men and women of all ages. The participation
of local political leaders adds credibility and underlines the Government's
support for the population program. Thus, with all its activities, CMPD
has successfully conmmuicated population and family planning messages
throughout the country, and major political support from key local and
Government leaders has been oktained. However, there is still a great deal
to be done at this level of general education, leading to more specific
targets and programs.
1.21      amsily Planning Services. Since the late 1960s, FP services have
been available in Rwanda on a limited scale as part of gyeological
servioes at the Government's central and prefectoral hospitals. Presently,
FP services are provided in only one third of peripheral health facilities
(nnex 1, Table 3).  whereas public hospitals recruit mmre acceptors than
private hospitals, private health centers (protestant and catbolic) recruit
nore acceptors than public health centers. Various contraceptive methods
are available. Sterilization and abortion are not offered as part of the PP
program, but are permitted on a case by case basis for medical reasons
only. The number of new contraceptive acceptors by method for the period
1980-1984 is given in Annex 1, Table 4. Acording to the 1983 National
Fertility Survey (NPS) contraceptive prevalence for mxdern methods was esti-
rated at 0.9 percent of women aged 15-45 years who were in union, not preg-
nant and fertile.   Traditional or 3naturalm methods were used by 10.1
percent of womn. Oontraceptive method mix was as follows: injectables
45%, oral ccntraceptives 44%, IUDs 8% and barriers (mostly condoms) 3%.
1.22     Data from the 1983 NFS suggest that a substantial demand for
contraceptive services already exists in Rwanda. Of the women aged 15-49
years in the sample, 31% (representing 223,200 woven in the country) said
they intended to use contraception in the future. An additional 20% of the
womH of the same age group (representing 144,000 women) did not want an
additional child. Thus, the unmet demand for PP servioes amVng women was
much greater than service delivery capacity in 1983. Men's attitudes and
their receptivity to oontraception were not assessed, but mist be in the
context of future work. Given the major and effective efforts by CtAPO to
increase knowledge of PP methods and to create broad awareness of the demo-
graphic situation and its im;act on socio-econcmic and health conditions,



the demand for modern contraoeptive vetbods aB probaly now increased eve
further.
1.23     consequently, it is now inportant to find ways of meetiDg the
current and increasing demnd for FP servioes-.    rving   the MM&s FP
service delivery system is the best way of doing this.   1   and OHMO
have already approved, in Dbeier 1984, a doamt describing tbe division
of tasks betwen the two  nstituti . A high level sMnr  held in May
1985 brought together    Ssk  oentral staf, regial helth  and bospital
directors, and ON     rereni    to expand  a  futher develop the
strategy to extend PP services natiorwide.
D.  _1h
1.24     WaLth  ±o.  The Governuntls helth policy and strateu for
the Third Five-Year Plan (1982486) are somd, giving priority to the main
elemants of primary health care as defined by MWD, and include: Mi) reorga-
nization of  P,, based on the iliatin  requirmnts of a policy
Of Rants por 1  nosse; (ii) d wselit of the health infrastructure bY
providing at least one health ienter per ac_mue (tbhre are 143 caaes in
Rwanda) and two rural bospitals in each of the ten prefectures  (iii) an
increase in hospital beds to keep up with populaton growthb  and (iv)
mapower developaet boy stregtheing present and plwaned facilities.  To
further operationalize these general goals, NORM, with the support of WID,
held a workshp in May 1983 to fonulate a specific health plan. Priority
was given to improving existing facilities (ratber thmn building nvw ones),
to converting dispensaries into health centers and to expanding nationwide
the Expanded Program on Inmunition (EPI).
1.25     MEISN is presently preprig  its FEurth Develont Plan.  T¶e
Preliminary draft reflects serious efforts to enhance quality of oare and to
develop priority service programs that go beyond nmerical targets for
buildings and personnel. The proposed Bank suported family health project
would be the major investment in the sector and would constitute support to
the core of the integrated national MC"/NP/trrtion program.
1.26     organization  Md                        Senmh   .  As mentioned
above, MOES  has recently been reorganized.  Ihe former Ministry (now
Department) of Social Affairs has became part of the Ministry of Health.
CNAPO is under the umbrella of MDHS but retains its essential cbaracter
as a parastatal (see ozational chart In Am. MOM  itself capris
three departmnts: General Services, Pblic Health, and Social Affairs, all
under the Secretary General. Three anuc needed ted mical divisions have
been recently createds a tCH Division (inc1uding a famlly planning bureau),
a Study and Ealuation Division, and a Trainin  Division (for basic and
in-service training).  IOE*  is gradually bringing these divisions  nto
effective operation. The Study and Evaluation Division is responsible for
statistics, docwietation, studies and project n-mitoring.  The liraining
Division is in charge of organizing a systemtic Inservice training program



-9
and developing curricula for auxiliary staf.  The 1X::E Division is setting
up standards and procedures for priority progras (iriunizations, nutrition
activities, prenatal care, etc.)t and its FP bureau is responsible for the
developwnt of family planming activities in hea}tlt facilities.
1.27     Decentralization of health services management to the regional
level has been initiated, and ten halth regions have been formed. The
extent of decentralization in the different health regions is, however,
quite uneven. While administration in som regions-Ruhengeri, Gisenyi and
Butare-is essentially decentralized,, the; others are iust beginning the
process.  Formally, the regional bealth directors havt   11 control over
personnel and services in their regions, and their administrative and finan-
cial authority could allow them to effectivly run health services and to
adapt them to local needs.  In practice, however, except for the regions
mentioned above, the regional directors are constrained by the limited
facilities and staff available to thae, and also need more techical
guidance and logistical support fron the central level, particularly in the
key areas of in-service training and program monitoring.
1.28     In January 1984, through the reorganization of the Ministry of
Health and Social Affairs, the Nutrition Bureau also came under MOHMA.
if is now Part of the newly created MC1  Division and is responsible for the
integration of nutrition activities with the MCH program. It is also re-
sponsible for promoting, coordinating and evaluating the activities of the
various local nutrition centers, and of the central Nutrition Training
Center located in Fddengeri.
1.29     Health Infrstructure.  Rwanda has 27 hospitals, 170 health
centers and 69 dispensaries evenly distributed throughout the country. More
than 50% of the population is within 5 km of a bealth facility, which is a
high health coverage by Sub-Saharan Africa stadards. Nevertheless, due to
the m uitainous terrain, accessibility to health centers varies, even though
the average catchment area is less than 10 km radius.  Three of the
bospitals-those at Kigali, Butare and Ruhengeri-are referral institutions,
and the one at Butare is the School of Medicine's Teaching Hospital. Health
centers have beds, but dispensaries do not, and MoRSA plans to gradually
eliminate this distinction by upgrading all dispensaries into health
centers.
1.30     About 60% of Rwanda's health facilities are operated by MCHS,
with the remainder belonging to religious missions. Operation of mission
facilities is based on legal agreements between the Government and the
sponsoring church, and these facilities are directly supervised by MOWSA
regional directors. Governuent policies on health services apply equally to
all facilities. MOMS pays 80% of the salaries of Rwandese staff working in
the mission facilities and approves the missions' fee for service
schedules.  The missions have a coordinating body called "liIgI ,des
Formations M&3icale  Agre  du BM" (BUENWR, which represents the
missions in negotiations with MEO   and provides services for its mwbers,



- 10 -
including drug supply, maintenance of equipment and production of
educational materials.
1.31     The poor condition of health facilities, particularly the beath
center network and equipment, significantly Affects the quality of health
services provided. Building are often dilapidated, poorly maintained and
too small to ac   reMwt their outpatient load. Medical equipnt is geer-
ally minimal, and being old, is difficult to mintain.  The nuirber of
vehicles is insufficient, and most health centers have no vhicles at all.
in general, mission facilities, having             sources of funds, are
better equipped and maintalned than Govermnt facilities.  Alftbfh an
expanscon of the service network is not presently required, there is an
urgent need to upgrade and rehabilitate health facilities in many locations.
To address this need, during project preparation MOM  prpared a prior-
ity list on the basis of a systematic             of phical cotion,
geographical acoessibility, utilization pattems and staffing
of dispenaries to be upgraded and health centers to be rehabilitated.
1.32     Health StAffn.  The main categories of health personnel are
physicians, medical assistants (level Al), licensed nurses (level A2),
nolled nurses (level A3) and nurses aides (level A4) (see table below).
Category            Levl    NUiber        Training        Training
(1985)      Duration       Location
Physician                      247         6 years         University
post-sec.
Medical Assistant    Al         81        No longer           -
trained
Medical Assistant    A2        407         6 years         3 scbools
post-prim.
Licene Nurse         A2        377        6 years          2 schools
post-prim.
inrolled Nurse       A3        487        4 years          2 schols
post-prim.
Nurses Aides         A4        157        One year         No permanent
facilities
The above nunters include about 60 expatriate physiciam  and 130 expatriate
nurses, most of wbom work in the three referral bospitals. Tie training of
medical assistants at the Al level (nurse practitioner) do not meet intema-
tional standards, and their training was disoontinued in 1977t tbey are now
trained at the A2 level (licensed nurse). Traditionally, mn bece aiefs
of bealth centers, whereas A2-level female - nurs work unxer their super-
vision. The training of medical assistants eapaizes diagnosis and thera-



- 11 -
peutics, while the training of A2 nurses focuses on midwifery and matemal
and child health.  Enrolled nurses (03) are trained as sport staff for
technial activities under the supervision of physicians, medical assistants
and A2 nurse.  The nurses aides (A) are trained in basic primuy health
care on an ad hoc basis at the regional level. They fill the gaps in teath
center stfing.
1.33     The training of physicians is undertaken by the Ministry of Higher
Education and scientific Research. The Faculty of Medicine of the
U12iversity of Butare has been graduating physicians since 1973. The yealy
output of about 20 is adequate to staff the new hospitals and to gradually
replace expatriates.  The pre-service training of medical assistants and
(A2 and A3) is undertaken by the NINEPEC. About 40 medical assis-
tants are trained annually in the Kigali an  Butare schools.  Licensed
nurses (A}) are trained in Rwamagana and Kabgayi, which have annual outputs
of about 30 each. Enrolled nurses (h3) are trained in KRlinda and  ugonero.
the cowbined yearly output is about 25, which falls far short of needs.
Nurses aides (A) are trained by WHS in three locations-Ngarame, Butare
and Kabgayi-which provide this training with the support of UWr"EW. The
yearly output is just enough for maintaining the present staffing levels
in the health centers.
1.34     Health staff is insufficient at the health center level, primarily
due to the heavy load of outpatients. The skortage is particularly acute
for enrolled nurses (A3) and nurses aides (A). In order to overcome this
shortage,I M  RZISEC is planning to build additional A3 training facilities,
and MiOM is- planning to increase the output of nurses aides (A) trained at
each regional location. The content of paramedical training is being
revised by a joint task force of MHOSA and MINEPRISEC officials.
1.35     For the past three years, to overccme the critical staffing
shortage and to effectively deal with the needs of the intensified MCI/F?
program, NOWS has trained nurses aides for one year and employed them on a
contractual basis at the health center level. The A4 level curriculum has
bee. developed through a WHO supported training project.   It has been re-
vised during project preparation to clarify the educational objectives and
target thbm towards MCM and FP activities. Trainers are recruited from
among local physicians, medical assistants and nurses employed in nearby
health facilities (bospitals, health centers and dispensaries). Practical
training is undertaken in bospitals and health centers under the supervision
of trainers who receive an allowance for the time spent on teaching,
training and supervision. All trainers have been prepared for their task by
a two-week teacher training course organized by the new MOSM  Training
Division, with assistance from UNICEF.
1.36     In-service training is presently done on an ad hoc and infrequent
basis. Regional medical directors assemble the chiefs of health centers and
dispensaries every two or three mDnths for seminars on priority topics, but
this instruction is not systematic and it is difficult to evaluate its
impact. The development of a systematic training program for health staff



-12-
is now the najor responsibility of the new training division. For this,
priority subjects must be determined, curricula developedt trainers trained,
pedagogical materials produced, and transport and facilities arraged. The
role of the regional health directors in organizing in-service training
needs to be increased, with sujport from the central level staff of MO
and ONAF, who bave agreed to collaborate on providing training in FP to all
health personnel.
1.37     Health  ervi=s.  General   atient services in hospitals and
peripheral facilities are beavily utilized, the average nuLber of consulta-
tions per day ranging fram 100 to 300, and outpatient facilities are almost
invariably crowded. The level of utilization of inpatient servicw varies,
depending on their type and location. The average bed occupancy rate for
bospitals is 70%, which is relatively high. The occupancy rate for health
center beds is 30%, which is typical for this type of facility. Saw
hospitals and wards have occupany rates over 100%. This suggests that
future plamning of capital investants should be based on a careful analysis
of each facility's needs.
1.38     MM services are provided in mDst health centers and hospitals.
An Expanded Program an Imnization (EPI) bas been underway since 1980 with
financing from WRs, UNICEF and USID. It was earlier managed for five years
by a WHO expert, and it is now under a Rmandese national. The program is
iaplemented in all of Rwanda's hospitals and bealth centers. Coverage of
children is presently approaching 50%, a respetable achievent as shon by
the decrease in incidence of measles and pertussis (see Annex 1, Table 10).
A new program, Combatting Children's Caicable Diseases (COD)), hs 
laumched to coplenent the EPI. It includes Diarrheal Disease Control with
oral rehydration therapy, malaria control through standardized treatunts
and prophylaxis. This program is finaced by the sane donors (USID, WHD,
UNICEF) as the BPI. It is presently            in three pilot zones and
will be expanded nationwide within five years. Prenatal care is provided
for 80% of pregnant women, but the average of two visits per woan is insuf-
ficient for the proper mnitoring of a pregnancy. most wen deliver at
home; it is estimated that only 10% of all deliveries take place in bealth
facilities. Postnatal care is almost non-existent and there is no prootion
of FP during this particularly receptive period. A national program is
needed to establish standards, procedures, and skill requirements for deliv-
ery of MCH services.
1.39       i. The nutrition centers network is the corner-
stone of the national nutrition effort. The 167 centers are distributed
throughout the country, averaging one ceter for every 30,000 persons.
Tiheir operation is financed by beneficiary families (who pay a monthly fee),
the cormues (whict. are responsible for stf salaries) and external donors
(who mostly finance food and equipment). The Gomenmt undertakes plannng
and supervision by the MOHSA Nutrition Bureau, and staff training is
provided through the National Training Center at Ruhengeri. About
two-thirds of the nutrition centers are privately operated, mstly by
religious missions. The Catholic Relief Services (CRS) provide food for



-13 -
about 95 centers (mostly located in Catbolic or Protestant missions).
Utilization of nutrition ceters by the public is high, on average a center
serves 500 Ilthers per month. Major activities include growth mnitoring of
children, nutrition rehabilitation of malnourished children, educational
tal  on weaning practices, dbveloQmet of family gardens, and food distri-
bution. The Government's present policy is to integrate the nutrition
center activities with health center MMC activities, i.e. no new nutrition
centers will be built, but some spwce will be devoted to nutrition activ-
ities in new or upgraded health centers.  Most of the nutrition centers
are located close to health centers.
1.40     There is evidence that the centers' performance could be improved
by targeting the program towards high risk groups (See Annex v). Most of
the mothers who attend the nutrition sessions are more interested in the
almost free distribution of imported foods than in educational talks. These
foods are most often not given to malnourished children but are distributed
among family my";ers or sold at the market. Due to the absence of strict
enrollmnt criteria, such as         rished children or poor families, the
nutrition center Staff are presently spending much of their time taking care
of well nourished children. The waning mixtures presently suggested to the
parents are also inappropriase. The light porridge of sorghum is insuffi-
cient in caloric content and the mixtre of sweet potatoes and beans is too
thick for young children. Parents also face other constraints in preparing
these foods: lack of wood fuel for cooking several smal meals a day,
mothers' workload during the day, lamc of availability of products on the
farm or lack of mey to buy them, amon others.
1.41     _                       Drugs come from four main sources:  the
Government's pharmaceutical office (OcpHAR, the mission-operated office
(BUFWE) , private comercial       cies and bilateral aid. In recent years,
OPIAR bas been increasingly less able to meet the needs of the health system
and commercial pharmacies have steadily increased their role.  In 1984,
aPHAR purchasd only 25% of drugs available in R1anda. An essential drugs
list of 286 ites was established in 1980, but only applies to the Goven-
ment bealth system, since BUFMR and the comercial pharmacies inport
freely. Also, there is no control over direct doations of drugs to the
facilities supported by missions, and over French and Belgian assistance.
Cbmmercial Phamcies specialize in items not on the essential drugs list
because they tend to generate higher profits.
1.42     OPHAR is facing increasing difficulties in supplying drugs to
health facilities. Its budget for drug purchases has not increased for the
past five years, and  nagent procedures and storage facilities need to be
improved. As a result, In some Government facilities quarterly stocks run
out after two months. The Government is aware of this problem, which
reduces the quality of health services provided, and is taking various
measures to iNprove the situation. CPI%R will be reorganized as a para-
statal agency--WHO will provide technical assistance to implement the
reorganizationrand the African Developmnt Bank is financing a new ware-
house and is likely to provide technical assistance.



14
1.43   Uam         Sftur                    A1.              Total private
and public outlys for bealth care amounted to about 3.5 % of GNP in 1984,
or an equivalent of uS$5 per capita, which is close to the average figure
for Sub-Sabaran African coutries with a simlarly low income level. mhe
major sources of finance for recurrent expenditures are the Governent
(38.7%), bilateral aid (21.9%) and the missions (18.4a). Estimated payuuts
by individuals (8.5%), not including outlays for traditional medicine,
and insurance (3.1) are minor soutes of funds.  A sumary of estimated
recurrent health expenditures for 1984 by source of finance is shom in
Amex 1J Table 18.  With only 39% of recurrent exp ture financed by the
Government, Rwanda's helth sector is heavily dependent on foreign assis-
tance.
1.44     More than 80% of the capital expenditure is financed by external
dmnors. About half of the capital exenditures during the past five years
were funded by Belgium and were used for purchase of equipmnt, renovaton
of boepitals and for a new drug production unit. K1A's budgeted capital
expenditure for 1984 is about 6% of the Govemment's total investent
budget. The ccuposition of capital expenditure seemn  in general to be well
balanced between central and peripheral facilities. The public contributes
to the cnstruction and rehabilitation of facilities through the system of
cooperative labor (Uniganda).
1.45     MOHSA enjoys a relatively high priority in central government
allocations. In terms of its recurrent budget, MOHSA ranks seventh highest
among the 19 Government ministries. For the past 10 years, its recurrent
tures have averaged 6% of the Government's annual recurrent budget.
Its share of the budget first rose in the exceptional budgetay situation of
1978-81, then fell in the general recession of 1982-84, and regained its
1981 share in 1985. Budgets for 1984 and 1985 and actual expenditure for
1984 are presented in Annex 1, Table 17. The two major categories of
expenditure, as per the 1985 budget, are personnel (57%) and drugs (13%).
The proportion of the NOISR budget devoted to personnel is much lower and
more balanced than in most countries of the region.  Hbowever, annual
spending on drugs (in current RNandese Francs) was cut back in 1982 to its
1977 level. This resulted in a 35% reduction in real per capita terns
compared to 1977. One consequence of this reduction was the growing
inportance of the private sector in drug supply.
1.46     Several ministries other than MOHS also nake expenditures for
health. The Ministries of Higher Education and Scientific Research, and
Primary and Secondary Education are responsible for the operation of the
nursing scheols and the School of Medicine and spent about 40 million IF for
training of medical and paramedical staff. The Ministries of Defense and
Foreign Affairs pay for the medical care of their personnel.
1.47     External assistance to the health sector has been provided by a
variety of agencies, particularly by the missions and philanthropic organi-
zations. External assistance to MCHas itself has been limited. USAID, in



-p15-
addition to its support of aMM  is co-financing the MM project with  ,
UNICEF and the Centers for Disease Ontrol. UWCEF is supporting training
activities in VKH and nutrition and scm  activities in water supply and
appropriate technology.  The XE  is supporting the developmnt of a nutri-
tion surveillance system through the EDP, and 300,0OO ECU have been
allocated to this project, which is scheduled to begin shortly  French and
Belgian aid supports hospitals in the Kigali and Ruhengeri regions.
Following a recommendation by the Bank to imrprove coordination of donors in
the health sector, MOII  created a "National Health P.-ojects Coordinating
Committee which held its first review meeting in October 1985.
1.48     For the poplation progra., the Governent is receiving substan-
tial external assistance, alzwt all of which is being channelled through
(NPO.  rilD, with a US$6.25 million project for 1982-88, is the largest
donor. It is financing, inter alia, the costruction of a training center
in Kigali and six health centers, ten person-ye=  of short and long-term
technical assistance, scholarships, contraceptives and operating costs for a
wide variety of training and informational activities.  U&I  has also
provided funds for the national fertility survey. UMPA is financing a
medical advisor and a deoDgrapher for OMPO, scholarships, medical and
offic  equipent, and construction of health facilities.  Various training
activities are provided by  PTIE, INJIMH and the Ulniversity of Chicago.
IDA is financing construction, tec}nical assistance, materials and equipuent
for pilot PP activities in the Kibungo region. In all, an estimated US$9
million in external assistance will be provided for population prograns
during 1982 through 1986. The Government's main financial contribution is
the personnel and admini.trative costs of ONAO. These amnt to US$0.6
Million in 1984 or about 0.5% of the Government's total operating budget.
1.49     Health Einancing.  Both Govenmeent and mission facilities levy
fees for health services.  In Governmt facilities, drugs are included in
the consultation fee, but in the missions they are charged separately. The
Government's revenues are sent to the Treasury but are not earmarked for
health services.  In 1984, these revenues represented about 7% of the total
costs of services provided by government health facilities. Coplete infor-
mation about fees charged by the missions is not available. Since most
mission facilities rely heavily on fees for their financing, it can be
inferred that their fees are higher and the collection more vigorous than in
Government facilities.  MOM  is not adverse in principle to raising its
fees, but is currently focusing on the possibilities of charging for drugs
as the most effective approach to cost recovery. !H'EBA is presently
reviewing an operational research project on drug financing at the couunity
level including preliminary studies on comnuity willingness and ability to
pay and managerial capabilities needed which would be financed under PPF.
To prepare the Fourth Development Plan (1987-1991) MMHS is undertaking
with WWH support a corprehensive health financing study. It will update the
previous health financing study (1977), analyze recent trends in health
expenditures,, identify sources of financing and review opportunities for
additional resource mobilization in the sector. It was agreed during
negotistions that, by April 30, 1987, MJJSA would present to the Association



-     ~~~16-
the findings of the flnanci   studies and a proposal to irpleat the
r        tione (para. 7.02 (a)).
II. iLJ                   . i
A.b
2.01     In order to increase the contraceptive prevalee rate and to meet
the current and increaigX  dansd for IT services, the G wvent has
recently adopted a stratey of integratin  llate'l and Child Bath  anld
Famly Plann  serice delvr.   At the central leel becie  of thie
Lovrnmnt deciio  t;o put (^PO and the nlutrition center network tzer the
helt uzrela, coordntio  beWee M5A and OaN  is ilovi             Inx the
regions, workin  reationship, betwe  the CtPO- e    and  dca. hath
directors have been clarified. I'rweased efforts tard  deenra-
lization are being made to develop, iniseznt and mnxidtr the M'PP
program. At the field level, efforts are underway to provide health
personel with clear task descriptions, tcrainng, and tecnial sport for
family planning and maernal and child heat activities.  Primary health
care facilities (i.e. disesries anld healthg centers) are pilanned to be
upgrae so that they can effectively deliver baic health services.
2.02     ID's principal objective in the PHN sectors is to assist the
Govermiunt in the urgent task to reduce the rate of populatio growthi and
improve maternl and child health. The Government's strategy of developing
a cotirehesive fanily helth proram is s8n  an thedvloen of a st
of operational policies to iulernnt thi strategy are the key features of
Bank assistne in the sor.  Thbe fivepronged approachi envsagd  is to:
Ci) improve family health services to adequately mcet the increased duen
for Ee and NCEJ servicesj (ii) proide assistance for improvring the effecti-
vens of the nutrition center progra  and for integraing them with te
health cenlter IKJ/Pactivitiesw. (iii) strente  !(HS furthier, especially
its regional ization and decentralatin efforts and the three central
divisions, so that the Ministry could dicage  its nay repnibilities
more effectivelyu  (ivr) delo  the adtional saf  needed to overcan
shotagsj and to (v) delo a data bas  for imlproving policy fonmlation.
Bankc involvnent in the sector is essenltial sincOe (i) populationI control isG
central among log-erma deveout issues  (ii) natinwde avaiability of
& ~oprenive  iC/~/triton  program is of utms  priority to reduce
fertilitEy and maternVcdl1d IKrtalityl and (iii) thsaproah ccmpeamts
the assistance being provided by USAD and other donor  for the FP and
limiaion  programE and for the diarrheal disae control activities that
are key eleies of te KE program.



-17 -
C.
2.03     The Bank Group direct leng  for popuation-related activities
in Rwanda has hitherto been confined to a p   ation cononent in the IDA&-
financed BDQ II rural deelopment project (Credit No. 1283-U. The credit
was appred in July 1982 and the project will be ccrpleted by the end of
198e. mhe objective of the   u         was to develop, on an experimental
basis, ccmnityt3aed family plaing services. OMPO was responsible for
Jiuntloglethis coaponant which included ZEW  and traing activities,
rehabilitation and equipping of a few health centers, and improved supervi-
sion from the central levl. gme couponet was limited to the prefeture of
Kibungo (about 500,O00  people).  While CM   was successful in raising
awareness of the polation problem, it was unable to increase significantly
the number of contr       acceptors. %te major constraint was the lack of
involvement of MOM  in EP services provision at the health center level.
Other comtraints were  taP's reluctance to use tecinical assistance as
planned and its limited planning and managerial capacities. However, this
cononent gave MR, the o:ortumity to learn about the sector and to identify
the need for improved collaboratio  and coordination between ONAR) and
MO.
2.04     In addition, the Second mI  Eduction Project (Credit No.1263-MR),
approved in June 1982, included support for the establisbnat of one
A3-nursing school in Gisenyi. Construction of the facility is ongoing and
is of good qiality. General progress is in line with appraisal estimates.
2.05     Proiga                A population, health and nutrition sector
mission visited rhanda in June 1983 and prepared a detailed sector report
(No. 4926-RW).  A project identification mission then visited Rwanda in
Ibveaber 1983 to discuss the findngs of the sector mission and to reach
an agremnt with the Governient on the outlines of a project. Following
the January 1984 merger of the Ministries of Health and Social Affairs and
the appointment of a new minister, the Governmnt prepared a project
propcsal in March 1984. mtis initial proposal was revised with the help of
a WPF advance of US440,000, approved by MR on Novemrer 15, 1984.  The
project was them prepared by EHSS asmisted by a task force of four extermal
consultants (in FP, Nutrition, Architecture and Preparation Coordination),
who worked in close coordination with seven staff menbers from MCW  and
oNaPO, under the chairmanship of the MHOM Director of Administrative and
Financial Affairs. in April 1985s, a detailed draft report was made avail-
able to the ipre-pprasl mission, and in late June 1985, a proposal was
submitted to Im. The proposed project was appraised by an IDA mission
in July/August 985.
2.06     During the two ywrs of project preparation and appraisal, the
proposed project has changed from a hardware-oriented project (i.e.
buildings, equipment, vehicles) to one focused on delivery of cmpre-
hensive family health services. As a result of the dialogue between
Government and Bank staff, the working relationships between MORS& and
ONACP staff have been defined, and the overall strategy of inplenenting an
integrated MCBV/FP/Nutrition program has been developed. The proposed



-18-
project nw constitutes a key eleent of the govemment's action pla  for
reducing the fertility rate and providin effective health services to the
genral popuaton.
m. 
3.01      QXJ2QUM    The proposed project wwld, In the contest of the
natioal prinry beath care strategy, improve maternal and child health
status and, more specifically, develop faily planing.
7hese objectives would be achieved through:
(a) improving the quality and increasing the coverage of MYA and EP
services;
(b) improving the focus of nutrition activities and integrating them
into vaternal and dcild health servicesi
(c) st     ein  the intituna capacity of MOEI at the
central and regional levels; and
(d) inereasing the ouput and iproving the quality of basic para-
madical training programs.
3.02      As prVposed, the project will be mplmaented over five and one
alf years ad  wuld be an Integral part of the Pourth Development Plan
(1987-91).  It would complement other donor assistance in health and
populaion. Por the Bank to be of assistance In assessing the potential
finial    lcns of the Plan, it was agreed, during neotations, that
by Sber 30 of each year of project  l        ItaIon, MEJS  would transmit
to the Association for comnt its annual proposed health sector inestment
program  includin the family health project budget (para. 7.02 (b)).
3.03     a.    The project would provide for:
(a) t11r.ngthenina Of  at              ELo.   The project would
support the development of a restructured M program which
includes nutrition activities and, mt  importantly, nlkes Pp
services available nationwide. It would achiev this through  )
the implementation of a CWPP/Nutrition in-service training
program for about 1,400 bealth center staff, including abort and
long-term foreign consultancies for curriculum develo3aOnt,
training of trainers and operating aosts (ii) the provision of
medical  ppUlies; and (iil) the upgrading and reequint of 30
health  centers to strengthen the family health care
infrastructure.



-9
(b)       __                  of  _.  TPo iaplant effectiely
the restructured MCl program, NORSA would be strengtheed,
both at central and r"i=W levels. At the central level, t
M,  Training and Stxude dlvisin  wini be providtd with equip-
ment -and logistical support to better mnage, evaluate and
supervise field activities and with a long-tmem NCU/PP alviser.
Tmprovements of the health informatioui  ystem thruugh tecinical
assistance and equipment will strengthen the plnning capabilities
of MOE.  At the regional level, the decentrat  prooess
initiated by MOM would be suported by: (i) traini  of regional
teams to .lemnt an in-service trainig progr   (U)   gth
ening the     nt  and    rvision capacity of -the regi
staff by providing vehicles,  Ples, equipmnt, ir
operating costs and short-term foreign oonstaniesa and (iii) by
building eight  /       regia offices.
(c)       Res ourcs             .  Since training of additional
paraudical  pernl is an urgent nead, the project woulds Mi)
provide pre-service training and d    a  of about 200 nurses
aides (A4) to redy he ser   shoage of auxiliary staf in
health centers; and (iiu finance the costuction of two ne
3-nursing sbhools with an estinmted capacity of about 120 stu-
dnts each.  The Ministry of Bducation would be reponsible for
staffing the nursing schools and managing tbem.  Tedmical
assistance is provided to improve teaching and curriculum
develcpnt in the A3 scwols.
(d)                 * _  .  .   e project would provide diret support to
NAWPO to strengthen its capacity to fornlate and coordinate
population policies by suporting two key  perat   research
studies. ¶he studies would focus an (i) factors influencg the
acceptance and continuation of contraceptive uset and (il)
mateal and under-five uxrtality.
(e)        ro. The project wuld strengthen MOM  project
zmnagamnt capability b  financing 48 safnths of consultant
architectural assistance  for the project coorton office,
incremnta salaries for a project coordiator, an acountant and
support staff as well as qj5ent and incral operating
costs.
B.  11       2= bob=
S_X aJmilLFaevc
3.04      gm project would support the delopunt of a camrehensive
service package by providing Mi) l-rvice trainin  for health center
staff focused on FP, Cii) essential medical supplies an  Cii) iit
of facilities and equipuet in a selected nuier of heath centers.



- 20 -
3.05        Tn-Se.vUg T=rinin    ogr.  Training in PP and MM service
delivery would be provided for the following categories of health center
staff: medical assistants (in charge of the health center), certified and
enrolled nurses tA2. A3 level), nurses aides (A4 level), and social
workers/nutritionists. The training would include non-clinical techniques,
so as to enable staff to work mDre closely with the cawmity and develop
interpersonal conuunication skills. Natrition and social workers would
receive instruction for integrating their work with health center activi-
ties, delivering PP messages to clients of nutrition centers and preparing
and promDting the new weaning food developed during project preparation (see
Annex 6).
3.06      Over the five year period, the project is expected to train about
1,400 staff (200 medical assistants, 400 nurs  (A2 and A3) and 800 nurses
aides/social workers/nutritionists. Training courses would normally last
between 3-6 days. An average of about 7-10 training day per staff per year
are planned (see Annex 1, Table 17). By project coapletion,.the in-service
training program would be a well-established ongoing activity. To ensure
this, the project would provide 7 staff-mnths of local ad  3 staf-mnths
of foreign consultancies for curriculum developient and operating costs for
training sessions.
3.07     Training sessions would be organized at the regional level by a
joint tCES&/ONMO tem  led by the regional health director.  The MHSA
Traiing Division would develop a specific curriculum for eah category of
health worker.  According to the training program, stf support would be
provided by the MOHSA Training Division and ONAPO. A detailed
inplentation plan for the first year of the project has been prepared.
3.08       Mdical a       .The project would provide for the essential
medical supplies, including oontraceptives, required by an accelerated PP
program. MOBSA/ONAPO have agreed on a target of 10% contraceptive
prevalence rate (modem methods only) for women in the fertile age (15-49)
to be reached in 1991. The target, though modest, is realistic. It inplies
that (i) in 1991 more than 100,000 women will be using a modern
contraceptive method (excluding unaturalu family planning methods), 10 times
more than in 1983   and (ii) during the 1987-1991 period mere than 200,000
new acceptors would be recruited. It also inplies that CUPO would sustain
its IEC efforts in estimating contracptive requirements.  It was assumed
that the FP program would give some prominence to injectables, IUDs and
condoms (see Annex 1 Tables 5, 6 and 7).  Presently, the limited
contraceptive needs are met by various inteniational organizations (IPPF,
Pathfinder and USAID).  Since contraceptives are provided free, the
Government prefers these sources. na funds would be used to supplemnt the
free supplies and to purchase injectable contraceptives for meeting 30% of
the expected health center needs. Information and counselling will be given
on all family planning methods permitted in Rwanda. While the broad
"cafeteria approach" will be pursued, it is likely that in the near future,
injectables and mD's will remain the most popular metbods. The project
would also provide for other medical products, which might be needed during



-21-
the implementation of the intensified MM, activities.  Thes  products
incude some vaocineb, oral rebydration salts or otber suppiies, which are
essential to the NCO program.
3.09                 at       Bpa1   qAi  NWok. Te Gwernment's two
major obj etivesgading the prim:y health care network are (i) to make
each health center capable of delivering key services, including
Pe/Rutrition services, short-tem  inpatient care and commity outreach
activities; and (ii) to provide an average of one health center per 30,000
population (presntly 43,000).  In order to reach these objectives, MMS&
has been gradually increasing the number of health enters with the
financial-support of various dmnors and is now planing to upgrade and
rehabilitate about half of the existing health centers and dispensaries,
wbich are in poor codition and do not meet the standard required for
adqate service delivery.  The project suport of this effort by financ-
ing the rehabilitation of the first phase of a health oter rebabilitation
program wuld benefit about one million people.
3.10       Mns  hal established a priority list of 30 balth centers to be
upgraded and rehabilitated. This list was established by a working group
including the regional medical directors, the prefects and staff from MNME
headouarters. During project preparation, consultant architects and MOSM
staff coazleted a systematic ase     t of each proposed facility, including
present physical status, geographical accessability, catchment area,
staffing pattern, equipment and utilization patterns. The appraisal mission
reviewed this work and accepted 25 facilities (see Annex 2, Table 21) which
matceud the selection criteria.   Five furtber locations remain to be
selected.  It was agreed during negotiations that the Govenunmt would
provide by December 31, 1986 to the Association the locations of five bealth
centers prqposed for rehabilitation during the third year of the project
(para. 7.02 (c)).
3.11      During project preparation,  ML  undertook a functional analysis
of health center requirements, including services to be provided, staff,
equipment lists and space needed for each type of activity. Based on this
analysis, a standard schedule of acoczwdatlon was developed, inoorporating
a modular design. ¶he diffe.,ent modules art: outpatient semices (83 ma)s,
inptient servces t68 uvi), maternity (86 mi), nutrition (25 en) and staff
housing (166 m4 for two houses). ftis approach allows flexibility for each
health center to be upgraded depeding on the specific requiremnts of eah
site, its physical condition, and the type of services provided. The
priority given to faily health is reflected in the centers' design, which
include  areas for prenatal, wel-baby and PP services, a nutrition center,
and space for educational taks.
3.12     Dave] Q=gt or pp  Mn  Ni               livery.  Through specific
in-eervice training, provision of essential ndical supplies and Intensified
supervision (see para. 3.19) FP services will be made widely available by
1991 (i) all bealth centers- (public and private) would be providing PP
services (three times as many as in 1983)1 (ii) each health center would be
recruiting 20 new acoeptors per month (five tims as many as in 1983)u (iii)



-22-
in each health center about two hours would be spwent daily on PP services,
including clinical and non-clinical activities (O to 30 minutes daily in
1983)i and (iv) all the nutrition centers (162) would praute failUy
planning. Te latter point is particularly innovative and should generate
more demand for EP since nutrition center clients are numerous. Other MME
activities would- benefit from the in-service training/supervision program:
(i) pre-natal care will iaprove quantitatively and qualitatively: (ii)
post-natal care (which is presently almost non-existent as mentioned in
para. 1.38) will be progressively developed: (iii) the control of sexually
transmitted diseases (a problem of growing iportance, see para 1.11) will
be introduoed through use of condomi and standardizd treatments to the
extent these are applicable: and (iv) nutrition enter activities will be
targetted towards high-risk groups and the nutrition workers will learn how
to teach wthers how to use the new weaning food.
3.13     The project would also develop specific           ict        in FP
and oral rebydration.  These activities would start from bealth oxters
where staff resources are adequate nd new A4 nurses aides have been
posted. The program would be gradually expanded and if necessary adjusted
on the basis of OWM's initial experience with FP outreach activities and
on the basis of USar  supported experimental outreach efforts under the CCCD
project which is presently being started.
3.14       The project will strengthen the MOHRM's institutional capacity
to: (i) better plan and manage central level activities, particularly in
the three new units (MCHl, Training, Studies and Evaluation); and (ii)
implement, at the regional level, the new strategy of integrated
MCH/FP/Nutrit ion service delivery using a decentralized administrative
System.
3.15            tr5Lcal   l.  The project would enable the Kr. AnivMiion,
including the PP and Nutrition Bureaus, to better manage ano supervise field
activities by providing equipment,, suplies, two vehicles and fellowshtps.
A long-term foreign AMIZFP adviser is being recruited under WID contract for
five years to assist in the planning and inplmntation of the family health
program. The tern of reference and scope of work for this expert have been
agreed upon. The project would also support overseas fellowships in public
health (MPH degree) for the MMl Division Chief nd for the PP Bureau
Deputy (one year each) and abiout fifteen study tours to countries where PP
programs are successfully iCmlenented. The M10 Division has been run until
now by the Director of Basic Health Care in an acting capacity. It was
agreed during negotiations that, by September 30, 1986, hORM wuld apoint
a full-time MMH Division Chief (para. 7,02 (d)).
3.16      TIe project would also strengthen the MCM Division's Patrition
Bureau.  It would help the Bureau in (i) introducing a new woanlig food:
(ii) argeting nutrition activities towards priority groupst and (iii) in
collaboration with the PP Bureau, integrating PP activities into the



-23-
nutrition center program. The Burea and the -l trition Training Center
supervised by it will be strengthened through the provision of teacing
materials, equipent and a vehicle each.  The project would also finance
study tours in neighboring coumtries where nutrition progranm have bee
successfully integrated into MCM activities.
3,17         The TrainL=gDJylsian wuld develop the in-service training
program for health center personel (para. 3.05). The project would provide
for 24 sf-imths  of foreign advisory assistance to help the Division
develop an in-service training curriculum, a plan for its inluwntation,
supervision procedures and an evaluation procedure. The project would also
provide equipment, teaching materials and a vehicle. It was agreed during
negotiations that, by December 31, 3986, MOM  would apoint an additional
training specialist in the Training Division (para. 7.02 (e)).
3.18         The Division of           and              created to develop
plamning and evaluation capacities of WEMS, needs a sore effective health
information systan (vital and service statistics) to fulfil its functions.
The project would finance seven staff-months of foreign consultancies to
analyze the present system to propose and introduce iVproviMents.  Tt was
agreed during negotiations that, by December 31, 1987, MOM*A would present,
for approval to the Association, its proposal to inprove its health
information systems (para. 7.02 (f)). The project would also provide
two fellowships for statisticians, office equipment (including one
microoonputer) and a vehicle. ¶o monitor (see para. 5.10) the impact of
the family health program, the project would also finance operating costs to
undertake two surveys on fertility and MCM status.
3.19        ,gcdl  Lel.  Presently, only two out of ten health regions
have adequate offices for the regional health director and his staff,
including the ONAPO pbysician, nurse and social worker.  In the other
regions, staff is poorly housed at scattered locations and cannot effective-
ly undertake its supervision responsibilities. The project would, there-
fore, finance the construction, equipment and one vehicle each for eight
regional offices, Including 13 staff houses. The office design is based on
the functional analysis of tasks that has recently been coupleted. Each
regional office would include administrative space, storage facilities
and residential quarters and comprise about 540 m2.
3.20      The regional director and his staff would play an important role
in developing a supervision system for the family health program and in
implementing the in-service training program for health center personnel.
Th strengthen supervision of the health center network,, M3SA and ONAK) have
agreed on a work program which familiarizes the regional staff with plan-
ning, managing and supervising the restructured MCH program.  Staff from
five regions have already been trained with funds from the PPP. Tb continue
this effort, additional workshops will be held in Kigali with participation
from senior staff from MShI, CUMPO and MINPRXSEBC, including the training
consultants.  This training of the regional staff would also inprove
qualitatively the supervision procedurer.. In addition, supervision will be
lJproved quantitatively, each health center will be visited by the regional



-24-
medical director (or his deputy) at least aoe every two mmths (instead of
once ewry four mnths presetly).  The project will finance the incretal
operating costs of the increased nuaber of supervision visits. sTe project
will also support the salaries of 10 additinal regioal ME supervisors end
their operating costs (gas, per diem).  ,1s  supervisors will be social
workers in charge of nuiitoring, on a umthly basis, the Integration of PP
activities within the daiy  ctivities of health and nutrition centers.
They will also supervise the strengting of pro and postnatal activities
and the development of the reesigned nutrition activities (targetting
toards high risk groups and use of the new weaning food).
3.21      This ccsuonent would have two parts (i) pre-service training and
deployment of nurses aides (A4 level), undertaken by ICSP4 and (ii)
construction, staffing, and        t      of two new nursing scbools for
A3-level nurses, undertaken by the MINEPxIMSC.
3.22      1?e:rAe_ice ra  n and               of ?in  Aids   To address
the critical manpower shortage and to deal effectively with the needs
generated by the intensified and restructured IKR/NPuitrition program, the
project would support the pre-service training of about 200 nurses aides
(A4).  The training would be done in the existing schools, which can
te additional students.  The project would provide for training of
trainers, incremntal operating costs and mcnitorlng and evaluation by the
WOJBSA Training Division. The curriculum was reviewed by Bank group staff
and found appropriate.  The additional yearly output would be about 40
nurses aides.  The Government has agreed to darrhoaize the use of nurses
aides in the hospital sector and to give priority to health centers to
ensure adequate staffing of primary health care faciities.  The project
would also support the deployment of the 200 new nurses aides in the bealth
center network to belp introduce the restructured MCS program and to make FP
services widely available. Tbe project simultanecusly provides for training
of enrolled A3 nurses, who would be ready for deploymnt in 1992. At that
time, the question of career opportunities and professionl future of nurses
aides would arise sinoe the A3 nurses will progressively replace them. To
facilitate eventual absorption of the nurses ai    into the cadre of
enrolled nurses, MOOS& is presently reviewing a nuchanism by which a career
path for A4 staff could be established. It was agreed, during negotiations,
that by Decetber 31, 1987, a career path for nurses aides would have been
agreed upon between MOES and MINEPRISEC (para. 7.02 (g)).
3.23     Nursing Schools for Al-Level Nurmms  Training of additional
paramedical personnel, particularly enrolled nurses (A3 level), is an urgent
need recognized by the Government since 1982. The total stock of A3 nurses
is presently about 500.  This is less than half the nxmber needed, and
averages cnly 0.8 enrolled nurse per health center.  Ite yearly output of
the existing nursing schools In Kilinda (18), Rugonero (6) and Gisaiyi
(20)-the latter financed under the IDA Second Education Project and
expected to open in Septerber 1986--barely offsets the yearly attrition



25s -
estimated at 5 percent.  Kilrnf and Nuonero are small private schools,
located nearby mission-run health facilities.  MMy cannot be easily
expanded.  Gisenyi, presently under construction, will be a Govemient
scbool, with a capacity of abwt 100 studmts.  Student intake cannot be
increased since it would exceed the absorptive capacity limitation of the
Gisenyi regional hospital.  With the population increaing anually by 3.7
percent, substantial shortages of nurses would reanin until mid-1990 unless
additiona training facilities are provided.
3.24     The project woldd, therefore, finance the construction of two new
nursing schools in Byumba and Kaduha for enrolled A3 nurse with a capacity
of 120 students each. The schlol complex would be about 2,270 m2 and would
comprise five classromw, a laboratory, a preparation room and a library.
The project would as well provide for osntnrtion of two houses for
teaching staff. The full range of required professional services during
construction would be provided by the Nf    sBC Service de Finaceunt
Construction Scolaire (SPCS), which is presently supervising the
construction of a virtually identical nursing school in Gisenyi, financed by
the MA Second Education Project.  In Byuaba, the new nursing school would
be established adjacent to the Government bospital, which has about 130 beds
and is located 100 km northeast of Kigali. The bospital is in good physical
condition and is weU administered. In Kaduhal the school would be built
adjacent to a 250-bed hospital, which is presently being constructed with
financial suport frcm Algeria. Comletion of construction is expected in
July 1987. It was agreed during negotiations that disburents for this
school would begin only when the hospital constructicn has been coWpleted
and equipment has been ordered. The schools would, in line with Government
policy, provide a four-year training course for selected primary scbhol
graduates.
3.25      The yearly output of the schools would be about 25 nurses each,
starting in 1992. The training course wold have two semesters each per
year. The curriculum, which was revised by NI:NEPRISC in 1983,, ha been
reviewed by Bank staff and fomud to be satisfactory. The syllabus for the
four-year program was similarly reviewed by Bank staff. During the
four-yar oourse, time allocation for general subjects will be gradually
reduced from about 70 percent in the first year to about 10 percent in the
fourth year. The practical training courses will consist of 35 percent
public health, 25 percent MA, including FP, 35 percent general nursing and
5 percent laboratory practice.  tpo  successful completion of training,
graduates would be awrded a MINBSBC diplem and assigned to health
centers and hospitals.  When In hfull  peration, each new school would
require four full-time teachers, seven part-time teachers and an
administrative staff of about 22. To iiprove teaching metbods, a technical
assistance specialist (two staff-years) provided by the project would
conduct training of nurse teachers.
3.26        The project would strenthen O(P's capacity to formulate
population policy by funding two key operational research studies. The two
proposed studies, to be undertaken during the first and second year of



- 26-
project implementation, are described in Annex 4. one would focus on
factors influencing the acceptanoe and continuation of modern antraception,
while the other would analyze maternal and under-five mrtality and
mucbidity.  Overall guidance would be provided by the OaK research unit
located in Kigali; but the studies would closely involve MOM service staff
and the University Public Health Oenter in Butare. The project would
provide equipuentg, six staff-inths of foreign aonsultancies, and operating
costs for the studies.
3.27     The project would be managed by two separate entities:  1'I,
through its Project Coordination Office and line directorates (80% of
funds), and by I3PRISBC's SFCS#, which is already executing M-financed
education projects. The project would strengthen the l;A project mVOng-
ment cpability by providing for a coordinator, an accountant and support
staff. Forty-eight staff-months of an architect for supervision of project
construction and procurement would also be financed, along with three
vehicles, office equipment and incremnetal operational expenses. The
project coordinator would report directly to the Secretary General of 1MO.
It was agreed, during negotiations, that the appointment by MOSM  of a
project coordinator, an architect and an accoumtant with qualificaticns and
experience satisfactory to the Association would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (para. 7.02).



-27 -
A. PIlQis
4.01             The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$14.5
millicn eqivalent net of taxe. Tbe estimted  eosts, expenditure cateo-
ries and foreign exchange caixxets, given in Annex 2 are sumrized
below:
1W IIE 
TAWS  LI: PW   OOS SEMM Br (X3PCN
(RWF '000)                   (US  '000)                      2 Total
-------- ---                            I-----   2 Foreign kw
Local   Foreign    Total       Local  Foreign Total    Eycharge    Costs
At STREJIBTHNE@ItS FAMILY FEALTH SEIMICES
i*-SEIPmICE  iRAININS PROGRAM                           41.723    5.673       47,396      421       57      479          12         4
MEDICM  SUPI                                                 -   279478       27,478        -      278      278         100         2
R98ILTATIWVR INS OI         F NCs                      112.617  174,95    2874312   1W138   1765   2902                  61        25
S9b-TOtal ST     TIENIN6 FAMILY HEALTH SEVICES            154.340  207846    362P186   1.559   2.099   3,658                57        31
B. INSTIflIT    L STElTEINS
CEN       LEVEL                                         16t495  1'24400    140O.99        167  1.257   1.423             88        12
REGIAL LEMEL                                            74,204  1004094    174,298        750  101I   1,761             57        1S
SUFTOW  IlSITUJTIOI   STR6ETIRENB                          90699  224494    315.193          916   2.268   3,184            71        27
C. -lt   RESRJS DEVEIET
RECRUITJENT/TRAININB OF MNtSINO AIDS 44                 84.905        25      84,30       858        0      858           0         7
TRAINING OF *3 NRiSES                                  119.666  119,861    2394527   19209   1.211   2.419               s0        21
Sub-Total H1ho  RESOURCES BEVELOP'ENT                     204.572  119.885    324,457  2^066   1.211   3.277                3         28
D. POuLATICN PLICY STUDIES                                 11.200   11,800       23.000      113      119      232          51         2
E. PROJECT NAMIAGENT                                       3.U447   54.974       91.421       368     555      923          60         8
F. REFUNW3N  OFQ PPF                                       17Y424   26.136       43,560       176     264      440           60         4
Tota  BASELINE COSTS                                        514,682  6459136  1.159.817   5.199   6.517  11,715                56       100
Phtsical Csntingecies                                      7,818   11.293       19,111       79      114      193          59         2
Price Continencius                                       127,871  123,852    251723   1M292   1,251   2543                 49        22
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         65'0.37l  780,280  1.430Y651   6.569   7,882  14,451               55       123
Nrch 4, 16  16"0@



-2B-
Project costs are expressed in Augt 1985 prices. Cost estimates for civil
Works are based on a review of oost data of recent contruction work in
fwnda, including contruction finned under the Second Education Project.
Etinates for furniture and equipmsnt are reasonable in scale and cwt and
are based on the equipment list already prepared. Project costs also
include provision for 19 vehicles at a unit cost of about us$12,000.
4.02     The average mznthly cost of omsultant services, including the
aost of travel, subsistence and allowances, is estimated at about US$10,000
equivalent for foreign consultants and US$1,000 equivalent for local
consultants. These estimtes are based on recet antracts in FEanda. Tbe
cost of training course  is based on prevailing Govenment rates for local
travel and per diem allowanes. tkit cost of owrseaz fellowships, includ-
injg cost of travel, tuition and board is estimated at US$2,000 per
staff-Wnth.- WHO wi  provide a Fmily Planning/kM adviser to the Govern-
wntt for five years on a grant basis.
4.03     civil worzka. #ie proposed schedules of acoonidation are appro-
priate for the various types of buildings, given the project obJectives. In
particular, proposed designs for upgrading dispnaries to health centers
are very economical, since they integrate, to the fullest extent possible,
existing facilities, many of which need rehabilitation. At each location,
only the modules required to bring existing buildings up to the level of
coplete and fully operational health centers would be added. The average
unit base cost of construction varies from about US$150 equivalent per
square meter for covered open space to about US$230 equivalent per square
meter of enclosed space at the 30 health centers and eight regional offices
and t'S50 equivalent per square meter for the nursing schools. These costs
rflect the high transportation costs in a landlocked country and heavy
dependence on extemal supply of goods and services.
4.04                              F For physical contingemies, an average
ive Percent has been added to the base cost for civil works. This amunt
is justified because co}plete schedules of acoeucdation and sketch designs
have already been prepared for 25 bealth centers and eight regional of-
f ices.  For the nursing scbools, space provisions have been derived from
the design of the nursing scbool financed under the ID Second Education
Project and prestly under construction.  Estimated price  .ncreases are
based on the following annual percentage rates of price escalation from the
bSe costs (August 1985), in acordance with the ipleuuxtation schedule
(see Anex 3).
Calendar Year      1986     1987      1988     1989      1990      1991
Foreign (%)      7.0      7.0       7.5      7.7       7.6       4.5
Ical (%)        7.0      7.0       7.0      7.0       7.0       7.0



29 
The annual rates haoe been rviewd by the Bank and have been found to be
satisfactory. mte local price ewcalation reflects the large proportion of
incremntal recrrent costs8 particularly salaries, which are projected to
increase moderately.
4.05               iman      a. All item specifically iirorted for the
proposed project would be mxn*t from direct cust8 duties and taxes, in
line with the standard peactice of the  ernmnt. For the type of con-
struction proposedr, customs duties represet, on average, about 8% of
total coat of site dsvelop:t and construction.  Of these, 6% represent
custals duties for larger individual itmee and 2% represent custai duties
no-aable for locally acuired materials, both of which have bees excluded
from the estiited cost.
4.06   DoreLgn Kxohagn.  The foreign exchage comonent
anmunting to US$7.9 milli6n, or 55% of total project cost8, has been calcu-
lated as foll(es:  civil works  5%, locally  manufactured furniture 60%,
directly  imported equipment, vehicles, medical supplies   100% and
architectural professional services 25%.
B. EZagWkW
4.07     An IDA credit of SDR 9.8  (US$10.8 million equivalent) would
finance 75% of total project costs, inluding all foreign exchange oosts and
44% of local costs.  The Gwvenmnt would allocate US$2.9 million to the
project (20% of total cost). Parallel financing will be provided by WED for
technical assistance for ICn  amting to US$0.7 million (5% of total
cost) .



'30 -
TA& 4kl: PiN; PLAN An cm suIO By aoU1E CATO=
INTEATIOA
DEVELOPIENT     DU   NEALTR  G60ET OF
ASSIATI0N       ORGAN-E:ATION      RAMA               Total
munt       I     Amm    X        Amot    %         A*wnt      %
I. ANVET METCSTS
Al CIVIL gmR%S                             6i286740  100            -   -           0    0    6t286*740   44
8. FWUIItK RE                                2i44.913   80          -          W 66.228   20     331,141    2
C. EIlPIPIENt                                4789712   80           -   -     119v67    20       598391    4-
-D  VEHICLES                                  248,187  100          -   -            -    -      248.187    2
E. STUDIES                                   2334572  100           -   -           0    0       233.572    2
F. ESSENTAL   DICAL PRODUCTS                 372s122  100          -                -    -       372.122    3
6. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                    1,212,318   63   725.375  37             -    -    1P937P693   13
H. TRAINING                                   6141.070  100         -   -           0    0       6164070    4
I. FELLOUSHPS                                 1604170  100         -   -            -    -       160.170    1
1. PPF                                       4409000  10*          -   -            -    -       4404000    3
Total INVESTMENTt CSTS                        10,312,806   92   7259375   6      185,906    2   11,224,088   78
I. RECURT COSTS
A. SALARIES                                        -    -          -   -   2,418,802  100    2.4189802   17
B. ORTiNG COSTS AMIN                        141.019   70          -   -       59.681   30       200,700    1
C. UTILITIES                                       -    -          -   -     108,489  100       108,489    1
B. TRAVL   ALLCE                             909062   70           -   -      38,598   30       128.660    1
E. VEICLE OMERTION AND MAINTENAICE          259,197   70          -   -      11185   30         370,282    3
Total RECUENT COSTS                              490.278   15          -   -   2.736.655   85    3.2216933   22
Total  isburseent                              1048034085   75   725375   5   249224561   20   14.451,021  100
::2S_=        :22s: :====     -:-C=:a1   _       __2        ::=S:
March 4. 1986  16601
4.08          The project's main recurrent cost is for salaries of the addition-
al paramedical staff trained under the project-financed   hn  resourc
deelc~umt -program, and other incrmental operating costs associated with
supervision, and in-service training.   The estimated ia]rmnt  recurrent
costs geurated bY the project at copletion represent only about 3.5% of
the estizuted mma's operating budget for 1992, assming a GIP growth rate
of 3% annually and constant share of 6.0% of IMO    in Gmment budget
allocation. Wrious projections have been made for the growth of 1JfM's
recurrent budget.  Ee with the msst pessimistic scenario-a QW growth
rate of 1.5% amnaly and a drop of MOM  budget allocation to 5%-tbe



31-
projects, incremental recurrent costs would only repreet 5% of NOS
estiSted 1992 operating budget. As such the project is clearly affordable.
The Ministry of Finance shres this    n     t and does not see any diffi-
culty for the Goveniut to afford this Increase,        cularly since the
establishnent of a natinide faily health program i  onsidered a central
develcant goal.
C. 
4.09     Procuresent arrangements are sumrized below:
(US$ M4illion)
Project Element                       IB                 Otber      N.A.   Total
cost
1. Civil works                        1.6       4.3       0.4              6.3
(1.6)    (4.3)     (0.4)             (6.3)
2. Furniture and Equipent             0.3       0.4       0.3              1.0
(0.2)    (0.3)     (0.2)             (0.7)
3. Vehicles                                     0.3                        0.3
(0.3)                      (0.3)
4. Medical Sioplies                   0.4                                  0.4
(0.4)                                (0.4)
5. Tchrical Assistance                                             1.9     1.9
(1.2)   (1.2)
6. Training/FellowshIps/Studies                           1.0              1.0
(1.0)            (1.0)
7. Eligible Operating Costs                                        3.2     3.2
(0.5)   (0.5)
8. Refunding PF                                                    0.4     0.4
(0.4)    (0.4)
s!]~Al                            2.3       5.0       1.7      5.5      14.5
(2.2)    (4.9)       (1.6)    (2.1)    (10.8)
2gte:  Animts in parenthesis represent mR finaning.



- 32 -
4.10      =ntrts for equipmet and mdical suplies (US$ 0.8 mllion)
would be awarded an the basis of intemational cctpetitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with Bank guidelines for procuremunt. Catracts for equipment
and vehicles, costing less than U$ 100,000 each (in aggregate not to exceed
US$1.0 million) would be by coqpetitive bidding, advertised locally and in
accordance with local procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank.
4.11     The contract for the construction of a nursing scbool (US$0.8
million) will be awarded on the basis of ICB. Given the dispersed sites for
helth centers and regionl offices, no interational contractors of civil
works are likely to be interested. 7herefore, contracts for the construc-
tion of health centers and regionl offices (US$4.3 million) finamed by MR
would be procured locally under biddin  docuuta divided into lots proposed
by the executing arcbitects, and allowing bidding for one, several or all of
the lots.  All rehabilitation workI, much of which is delayed raintenance,
will be divided into lots for which three contractors would be invited to
sumit proposals. Arcbitectural designs for the health cmters and a&inis-
trative offices, preparation of bidding docunts and supervision of works
for a total estinated cost of US$4.4 million will be une!ertaken by an
architectural firm accePtable to IEk. Contracts for equipment; and furniture
of a value less than US$25,000 will be procured on the basis of price
quotations frcm at least three local suppliers.
4.12     Sketch designs, draft tender documents and master lists of
furniture, equipoent and vehicles indicating proposed grouping and estimates
of costs would be reviewed by the Bank. &quipment would be grouped to the
extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk
procurement. Bank review of tender evaluation docunents prior to award
would be required only for oxntracts above US$250,000 equivalent for civil
works and US$50,000 equivalent for furniture, equipment and other
materials. All other contracts would be subject to review by the Bank after
the contract award.
4.13     Where international coepetitive bidding procedures are used (i)
domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipnent would be allowed a
preference of 15 percent, or the existing rate of import duties, whichever
is lower, over the c.i.f. price of coneting foreign suppliers; and (ii) if
applicablet qualified domestic contractors would be allawed a preferential
margin of 7.5 percent over prices of competing foreign contractors.
Consulting services including studies will be procured in accordance with
MA guidelines of August 1981.



-.33 -
D.
4.14     T11 promeeds of the M  credit would be disburse  as followst
Category I    100% of cost of civil works (US$6.0 milion).
category II   100% of foreign expent ture and 80% of local expenditure for
furiture, equipant, medical suppies and vehicles (US$1.3
mMion).
Category III  100% of consultant servicess, fellowships, studies and
training, except cowultant services -funded by WID (tS$1.9
million).
Category IV   70% of operating cost for project adinistration (ecept
salaries), vehicle operating cost and per diem of supervisory
staff (US$0.4 million).
category V    100%  refuding of the project preparation advance (US$0.4
millon) .
category VI   taloted (US$0.8 million).
4.15     All disbursements will be fully documented except those for
trainin and operating costs and for contracts below US$10,000 equivalent.
These woud be made against statents of exenditures (SOB), docu tation
for which would not be submitted for review but would be retained by the
Borrower at the Project Coordination Office (and at the wCS for the
manower develrdent o) and would be the subject of an annual audit
by auditors accetae to the Association. In addition, the docEna
would be ry  a ile for review by the Association representatives
during the course of project supervision. The Borrower would not submit
aplications for relzbursement valued below US$20,000 equivalent. Based on
expenditures in previous Association financed projects, the SYCS has
satisfactory in    ti   capacity to use OS  and to assist the 'MOM
project coordination office to use the procedure.
4.16     The project would be coWleted in five and one-half years,
including six mnthb  to finalize aounmts and submit finl witlrawal
applications.  Based an experience of ongoing M  education projects and
because of the  -uny advanced state of preparation (see para. 5.06),
particularly for civil works, a d.teusmt profUie of six years
against eight years standard) is considered reanable. The project is
expected to be cacpleted by      e          with a closing date of
3Q, lm,



-34 -
4.17        g.ial AGCD=.In order to ensure that funds for project
4pementation would be available when required, a special account would be
establisd at the Natiaoal Ban  of Rmanda. The funds would be operated
along the lines of funds establihed for other projects in  anda. te main
pupose of the aocount is to reduce the amount of time required to pay
contractors and ofuliers, and to reduce the nuiber of small disburse-
ment claims which could be submitted for financing fellowships and for
procuring small qumtities of milla     itm.
4.18     The initial deposit by IDA would cover about three months'
anticipated expenditures, estimated at tS$0.6 millon (US$0.2 million for
MM and US$0.4 million for the W)M. VhJLs amDunt would be avaible for
withdrwal from  the Ima credit acoount after credit effeci-eness.  f he
special account would be replenished by Mo on the basis of docunentary
eviene of payments for goods and services made by KOES and SFCS.  The
opening of the account, into which the initial amount would be deposited by
IDA, would be undertaken before credit effectiveness.
4.19     iLdik4ng- Annual auditing would be required for all expenditures
financed under the project, with particular attention to those expenditures
reimbursed under SCE. Auditing would be performed by independent auditors
acoeptable to the Association. Audit reports would be submitted annually to
the Wbrld Bank, within the six nonths following the end of the Borrower's
fiscal year.
V.    D A
5.01     Proiect Mana9ement.  The project would, as mentioned in
para. 3.24, be implemented through existing Govemnment departuerats and
staff. The project would be managed by two separate entities: the IIME
Secretary General would have responsibility for implementing the MOMSA part
through a project coordination office and its line directorates, in collabo-
ration with (zaK, and the =MM  would implemnt its part through the
SFCS, which is implementing all IDA-financed Education projects.
5.02     A project coordinating ggcmLUtt   chaired by the MOM  Secretary
General, and consisting of the director of ONIPO and the director of SFCS,
along with officials from the Ministries of Finance and Planning would be
resposible for overall project coordination. in addition, the IMSA will
appoint several full-time staf to enlarge the  E                      %giS : .xnatAmL.QW *a.
These include a Project Ooordinator, an accountant, an architect and support
staff (see para. 3.26). Ihe Project Coordinator and his staff would report
directly to the MOHS|s Secretary General and would maintain close liaison
with the other MOM  dep;Frtnts implemnting various activities.
5.03     The Project Coordinator would serve as secretary to the project
coordinating oommittee. Ihis main responsibility would be to prepare annual



- 35 -
work progras and budgets, procure civil works for the ealth centez and
administrative offices, procure eupient and c ltants, and process
reimbursement applications.  The project coordination office would also
monitor progress and submit semi-nnual progres reports to the Bank ad
other comenwed authorities.
5.04     Technically, the ROM  Secretary General would be re        le
for izlemmtlng the institutional develoipment cm t; the     Divi
within the Department of Public Health would be resposble for the
'Strengthening Pamily Health Services" coamronmt, and for Jntegrating
nutrition activities with the  - prmgram; the M         Taining Divsi
would be responible for the in-service trainin  program and aulay-level
(P) pre-service trainingi the MOM  FP Bureau in the MM Division wuld
be responsible for integrating PP with M  activities, and wuld collaborate
with MPO stafft the ministry- of  ducation WM unit wold be r ible
for the maxmner developant coponent; and otag's Studies and Evaluaton
Division would be responsible for the "Population Policy' cponent.
5.05     At the regional and field levels, the regicnl health directors
would be re    ible for the project's activities, as part of their ongoing
work program.  Their staff, along with the oON   teams, wuld directly
inplement and monitor the intensified family health program.
5.06       ate of Project            .  To facilitate project Start-up,
the Association and Goverment have already agreed upon stadard architec-
tural designs for the eigbt regional health offices and the new A3 nursing
schools, and on the nature of upgrading/rehabilitation to be des for
the helth centers covered by the project. Further preparatory activities
planned to be undertaken prior to credit effectiveness would be funded by
the project preparation facility. These include:
(a) detailed site survs for the four regional health offices, the
nursing schools and ten health caters which are targeted for
construction during the first two years following credit effec-
tiveness;
(b) the preparation of site plans for al  first-er construction
and draft tender documents; and
(c) development of an in-service training program to enable early
impleIntation of the in-service trainirg cotmp t.
5,07                        amT.    the extent possible, the
project would rely on local expertise to provide specialist technical
assistance for various components.  mowever, NMB  recognizes that certain
critical skills required by the project are not readily available within the
country. Draft terma of reference fbr f"reign consultants  d advisors have
already been prepared by Government and aproved by the  ociatim.
Selection of consultants would be done by the project coordinator, acODrding
to Bank guidelines. Advisory services to be provided under the project are



- 36 -
smrized in Area  1, Table 22. A total of 119 stafnts of consultant
assistanoe is anticipated.  In addition, WHD wld finance 60 staff-vonths
of an MM advisor. The project would also finane four overseasll       ip
for training in public health, with a focus on i, population and health
information systems. Study tours to coumtries where FP progrm are well
implemented would also be undertaken in aocordance with plans alreacy
finalized by the  .SU.
5.08                   fgr   . Professional architectural services would
be used to pr       designs, working drawings and tender documents and for
on-site construction supervision of the 30 health ceters and eight regional
administrative offices.  The selection and employment of a firm of
architectural/engineering consultants is presently being undertaken in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The cost of the architectural
services would be calculated as a percentage of the cost of civil works
undertaken. Professional architectural services for the nursing schools
would be provided, at no cost to the project, by the SFCS Unit of the
ministry of Education, which is already handling the design, tender prepara-
tion and construction supervision work for a virtually identical nursing
school financed under the Second Education Project. The Project Coordinator
would submit standardized modular designs for health centers, final designs
for regional administrative offices and the nursing schools, draft tender
documents and master lists of furniture, equipment and vehicles, all
indicating estimated costs, for prior review and approval by the Association
staff.
5.09     Site Seleico  Suitable sites for the Nursing Schools and for
most of the regional adminstrative offices have already been selected.
The Government has issued a Presidential Decree establishing the two new
Nursing Schools, and has also initiated aoquisition of the five project
sites included in the first year construction program (the first nursing
scbool and four regional administrative offices).
5.10     Monitoring * .1   1t?an.  The MOSM Division of Studies and
Evaluation, which is to be strengtheed by the project, would monitor the
progress of project impleaitation. &iphasis would be on process indicators
(see Annex 1, Table 23). Particular attention would be paid to number and
quality of helth staff retrained, additional nurses aides (A4) trained and
deployed, health facilities upgrade4Vrehabilitated and health facilities
delivering EP servies. Amng outcome Indicators, contraceptive prevalence
would be of particular importance and would be mnitored jointly with ON(P.
An evaluation of the specific impact of the project on population and health
status Is not poseible due to the variety of external factors (. :$uding
other projects) influencing morbidity, mortality and fertility. However,
the Government has requested project suport for collecting baseline data on
MCM status and for documenting changes In fertility, maternal and infant
urtality and nutritional status. A baseline survey will be undertaken
during the first year of the project, and a seoond survey (using the sawe
sample) is planned during the last years of the project. Survey design has
been reviewed by the Dank and found satisfactory (see para. 3.17).



-37 -
5.11     The project coordinator would have responsibility for day-to-day
project implementation.  The project office would prepare sem-annual
progress reports. These reports would be approved by the project coordit-
ng  COuttee before submission to the Bank.  A project caVletion report
would be provided by the Governmt not later than nine montho after
the credit closing date.
A.  ItE
6.01     The project would have subs      al ipact on the PP and health
situation in RJanda. FamlUy planning services would be made available at
200 health centers, and about one million couples in the reproductive age
group would have access to moder  methods of ontraception.  The project
objective of reaching a contraceptive prevalence of 10% by 1991 (up from
0.9% in 1983) is modes. but realistic and would set in motion a process
that should gain mor aitum in subsequent years, eventually leading to a
reduction of fertilitI by year 2000. The two research studies would provide
the basic data needed for developing new strategies for the population
program.
6.02     The 30 upgraded/rehabilitated health centers would allow about one
mdllion people from underserved areas to have better access to bealth care
and family planning. The project would strengthen the Ministry's adminis-
trative capacity to plan, implement, monitor and evaluate the MCK/FP/NUtri-
tion program. Improvements would be mnde at all levels-central, regional,
and field-using technical assistance, training, equipmnt and logistical
support. The development of a better health data base would inprove
decision-making in key areas of resource allocation and evaluation of
program effectiveess.  Thi institutional strengthening wold help MOM
sustain its MCB/?P/Nutrition program efforts even after the project is
completed. Specifically, a new weaning food wlll be introduced.
6.03     Finally, the project would assist the Government in solving one
of the health system's most severe constraints--the shortage of paramedical
personnel. The parmdical in-service training and the pre-service training
of auxiliary nurses would help improve the quality of medical staff nation-
wide. The nursing schools for A3 nurses would train primary health care
staff. New curricula and teaching methodologies, developed with technical
assistance financed by the project, would improve the professional
competence of nursing school graduates.



- 38 -
B. Rigak
6.04     The main risk is that due to I4OH5Ms limited administrative
capacity, project inplentation could be delayed or otherwise hindered. As
a first-time borrower, MORM Ahas little experience or appreciation of
the management challenge inherent in bplenting a major Bank-fud
project. This constraint can be eased by providing suitable technical
assistance, but thus far MIRS has mainly utilized free technical assistance
from agencies such as WHO or UNI5CE  and bilateral donors.  Because of
reluctance to utilize project funds for expatriate consultants, Governent
mdgbt wish to rely on ad hoc assistance provided by bilateral agencies.
However, since such assistance is uncoordinated, not always available when
needed, and seldom oriented towards long-term institution building, such
arrangenents could prove unE"dtable for the project. To minimize this risk
key, long-tem  foreign advIsory positions will be financed by IDA.  in
addition, Goven=nt and Bank supervision would have to focus on active
donor coordination, and closely nonitor the technical assistance inputs
proposed under the project. Other key areas needing attention, particularly
In the early years, would be preparation and monitoring of the in-service
training program and supervision of civil works.
6.05     The second risk is that delays in implementing MOBSA's
regionalization and decentralization strategy could easily cause shortfalls
in project achievement. Altbough the roles and tasks of various categories
of staff have been recently clarified, and extensive in-service training and
supervision is envisaged, intensified efforts might be needed as project
inplemntation proceeds. Bank missions would need to continuously monitor
the nature, extent, and effectiveness of decentralized administration, and
its impact on the restructured family health program.
.   __
7.01     It was agreed during negotiations that the following would be a
condition of project effectiveness: that a project coordinator, an
architect and an accountant with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Association be appointed by MOHSM (para. 3.26).
7.02     During negotiations, it was agreed that:
(a) by April 30, 1987, MOM would present to the Association the
findings of the financing studies and a proposal to iMplement
the recameendations (para. 1.49)1
(b) by Septueber 30 of each year of project iplenentation, WOSA
would transmit to the Association for cment its amual proposed
health sector investment program, including the Family Health
Project budget (para. 3.02);
(c) by December 31, 1986, MCESA would provide to the Association



-39 -
the locations of five bealth centers proposed for rebablitatio
during the third year of the project (para. 3.10)1
(d) by Septenber 30, 1986, MOBSA would appoint a full-tive YAM
Division Chdef (para. 3.15);
(e) by Deoeirber 31, 1986, MN5 would appoint an additional training
specialist in the Training Division (para. 3.17);
(f) by Decerber 31, 1987, ROM  would present the   s       on its
-proposa to izprove its health  nforation systea  (pa. 3.18)t
and
(g) by Decmer 31, 1987, a career path for nurses aides would  av
ben agreed upon between (I0  and nMN%SC (para. 3.22).
7.04     Subject to the above assurances and condition being met, the
project coatitutes a suitable basis for an IM Credit of S)R 9.8 milion
(US$10.8 million equivalent) to the  axllese qxepublic.



- 40 -
ARX 1
Page 1 of 20 pages
Table 1: POPULATION AND fENSITY BY PREFECTURE
1982
Annual                    Annual       Population
Growth                    Growth        per km2
1978      1970-78       1982        1978-82      Agrlcultural
Prefecture    Census         X        getimate         X            Land
Butare        602,550       2.2       678,858         2.8            998
Byumba        521,351       5.0       602,076         3.7            382
Cyanguga      333,187       2.6       390,380         4.5            493
Gikongoro     370,596       2.1       398,010         1.3            395
Gisenyi       468,882       3.1       552,340         4.2            535
Gitarama      606,212       3.4       678,670         2.9            440
glibungo      361,249       5.5       426,611         5.7            332
Kibuye        336,588       5.2       374,438         2.7            482
Kigali        698,442       8.2       874,702         5.8            443
Suhengeri     531,927       1.9       596.647         2.9            505
TOTAL       4,830,984       3.8     5.572,732         3.7            445
Source: Third Development Plan estimates



- w~41.
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 20 pages
Table 2: POPULATION PROJECTIONS UNDER ALTERNATIVE ASSUMPTIONS
Total Populatiot iu       Auual Average
millions             Growth Rate
(1980 - 5.17 Milliom.              S
1985-   1995-   2010-
Projectiou                1985    2000    2013    1990    2000    2015
1. No migratiou
Constaut fertility       6.00    11.52   22.34   3.83    4.13    4.55
Gradual fertility
decliue                  6.00    11.16   17.99   3.83    3.65    2.87
Rapid fertility
decline                  6.00    10.17   13.56   3.83    2.57    1.60
2.  Emigration of
600,000 people
Coustaut fertility       6.00    10.46   20.47   2.90    4.04    4.60
Gradual fertility
decline                  6.00    10.13   16.46   2.90    3.57    2.91
Rapid fertility
decliue                  6.00      9.25   12.41   2.90    2.50    1.51
Source: World Bank Projectious, October 1985



-42-
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 20 pages
TAle 3: N1   W   AXlS tUCEJ         An MI)  IIA:S (    l  IMUX P1I_0  Sam
-   Mm  (w U       If C FM       (1984)
EPiC Fadllttes                                kIte Fac 1tlu
j td)e of                   .zbw Or .       r d
1ir of Niter of  Hulth           ibter of  Iiteo i    _aber o  Nnlth   IMber o           af T3tl of
Nospita1s UNes        CAite     UN=         Hsptta     us        Cater     s  IUe      Uks
,etal~         3        311        6          513         -           -         3                    Sa o0
Duy,e          3        171        1            6          1          7         -          _         184
.OyaaWj.       1        197        1           60         2         452         1           8        717
GIsuI          3        342        2           92          1         76         1         184        694
Rib            2        421        7           73         2          98         1          33        625
-        -         14         768          -          -         2           82       850
1       258         9         186          -          _         1         192        636
K1he           1        186        2           22         1         159        5          329        696
GlkaWro        -         -         -           -          1         136        -           -         L36
IUYL          14       16         42         171T         8         928        14         884       5418
Swem: MM  Projet Prepal            ,  1985



-43-
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 20 pages
Table 4:  NEW CONTRACEPTIVE ACCEPTORS BY NETROD
RWANDA 1980-1984
.. 0                                                             - ; .     . . 0 Centers  Centers
Year  OCs l/ IUDsj/  Injectables       Barrier   Natural   TOTAL   Reporting   Active
1980    234    173         154            _           -       561       11          17
1981    248    225         233            _           1       707       15         20
1982    417    307         453            -           1      1178       24         29
1983   1654    781        1406           10           5      3856       49         54
1984   3840   1060        3488          105          94      8587       93         97
1, OC: Oral Contraception
2, IUD: Intra Uterine Device
Source: ONAPO Statistics Office, August 9, 1985



Ta1le 5:  (9JR?       OF US IN ( AhEPfE  tDM
-      ~N  MIIW (IS *[
poe tltd    19I    2   19 I         197   Z   198   x   1969   2   1990   2   1991   2
Injetal              3,475  59.9 6,400 61.9 10,575 62.7 16,40R 62.2 23,908 62.3 33,407 6.4 44,897 62.4
(m1 Cmtraoetive       1,93D  33.2 3,174 3D.7  4,1 29.2  7,488 28.4 10,205 26.6 13,112 24.5 16,057   .3
1ID                   257   4.4   518  5.0    987 5.8  1,855 7.0 3,315  8.6 5,68D 10.6 9,224 12.8
_xx _o/0th__            145   2,5   246  2.4    393 2.3    646 2.4   978  2.5 1,372  2.5  1,F88  2.5
IY~L   ,             5,817  O0Cr 10,338 lOIK 16,876 lOOR 26,391 10 38,406 100l 53,571 lOO 72,006
8:  Gwo, 19
TAU 6: ES)JMB       (F 1U   BY  InD NO
IN IOALIH (NI AND HESPTEAS
Metos? d    1985        1986   2   1987   2   1988   2   1989   x   1990         I 1991   x
.ln*tsbl  6,118  51.1  9,98D 5e.9 15,Z2  54.3 22,773 55.3 3,59D 56.3 45,179 57.2 60,365 58.0
Oral Q(tlmptiU       4,164  34.8  6,098 12.3 8,447 30.1 11,54  28.0 15,089  6.0 19,037 24.1 23,122  .2
ID                   1,368  11.4  2,29  12.Z 3,683 13.1 5,87 14.2 8,&1  15.2 1,881 16.3 18,105 17.4
Corzbr/Otbers         .10   2.7    488 2.6   712  2.5  1,031  2.5 1,432  2.5  1,93D  2.41 2,517 2.4.
-      -     -     -, I                       . -                           
11,970 lOOK  18,860 lO  lX28,084 lKl1 41,179  1002 57,9M  l0OK79,(27 IiY   409 
&ouz2: QIA:  , 1985



-45-
ANE  1
Page 6 of 20 pages
Table 7: PRGAECTION OF ACCEPTORS AND USERS
AND BIRTHS AVERTED 11
1987     1988     1989      1990     1991     TOTAL
Acceptors             21,000   30,000   40,000   52,000   65,000   208,000
Users                 28,085   41,178   57,932   79,028  104,110   310,333
Births Averted         6,740    9,883   13,904   18,967   24,986    74,480
1, By 1991, the total number of users will be 104,110 for a population
estimated at 983,000 woman between the ages of 15 and 49, thus
providing for a contraceptive prevalence of about 10.6S.
Source: Project Preparation Team, August 1985
Table 8: CONTRACEPTIVE METHOD NIX
1984            1991 (Projection)
Injectables                   452                572
Oral Contraceptives           44X                222
IUD                            8X                172
Condom/Others                  32                 4%
TOTAL                        100I               100X
Source: WOHSA/ONAPO, August 1985



- 46 -
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 20 pages
Table 9: FIVE PRINCIPAL CAUSES OF REPORTED MORBIDITY
(N lU OF CASES)
1982       1983      1984
Malaria                  190,863     32,406    249,289
Respiratory Diseases      87,359     72,635       -
Diarrheal Diseases       114,605    144,789    114,430
Measles                   36,792     20,000     14,346
Gonorrhea                 23,046     23,856     22,394
Source: MORSA Annual Reports
Table 10: TRENDS FOR FOUR EPI DISEASES
1979       1980       1981      1982       1983
Measles           61,094     80,402     58,163    36,696     20,001
Whooping Cough    16,223     16,189     16,171    11,910      4,267
Poliomyelitis         14         22         38        29         20
Diphtheria            21          3          8         5          0
Source: MO}SA Annual Reports



-47-
ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 20 pages
Table 11: PRINCIPAL CAUSES OF DEATH IN HOSPITALS
Causes               1974     1978     1980      1981     1982
Neouatal deaths            692      644       356      308      u/a
Measles                    165      821       710      590      385
Respiratory Diseases       268      319       250      308      141
Diarrheal Diseases         254      252       168      326      303
Malnutritiou               238      167        84      141       92
Malaria                     50      306      u/a       201       116
Tuberculosis               236       99        78       78       43
Obstetrical Causes          43       48        68       38      u/a
Abortiou                   U/a      u/a       112      269      274
Liver Diseases             U/a      u/a      u/a        95       46
Tetauus                    n/a      u/a        33       38       44
Recurreut Fevers           U/a      u/a       114       53        17
Source: MOHSA aunual reports.



- 48 -
AtE  1
-         ~~~~Page 9 of 20 pages
_ -  Sliii_     
'': fl }i ,
Gi1    _   *1          *!1  l        1 
.- -
X~~_ __ I    
SEX0 ]'1~~~~~~



- 49 -
AM= 1
aW  ID of 20 p
Mb  013:         ON 101 (Xi PWMGO, AvEA) AN
P na&KIIM               Arm Plw"d                  yl
('We)   .                ('lo  be)
I                        I
1970  18OD  luze         1970 Q98D  huzus         1970  190D  bem_e
1,65  2,063    24          146   225      54       11.3   9.2      -19
Sumt potatoo     379   871   1I0           65   114      75        5.8   7.6        31
Cisam            33D   5a9    64           28    46      64        11.8 11.9         1
Beaw             143   181    25          161   257      60        0.9   0.7    -<
S a:glun         141   179    27          LIZ    145     10         1.1   1.2       9
Potato           134   217    6            21    32      52        6.4   6.7        5
Peas              64    3i   -45           76    51    -33         0.8   0.7      -13
m.ae              50    85    70           50    72      44         10    L2       20
Puts              15    16      7          16    17       6        0.9   0.9      U/a
Soybem           u/a     4   n/a          n/a      5    n/a        n/a   0.8      n/a
Sw: KinlstrIm of Apdaube anxd LLmtK:o& and Plamli



AM I
Page 11 of 20 pages
Table 14: NUNAN RESOURCES PROJECTIONS 1985, 1991
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Physicians            247     267     286      302     318     332      350
Nedical Aasistentel/  81       76      72       70      67      64       60
Medical Assistants2  407      412     450      470     523     577      628
Nurses A2             377     367     361      362     374     386      397
Nurses A3             487     480     474      470     467     490      512
Nurses Aides 4        157     235     309      379     446     509      569
Nutritionists         273     316     358      396     433     460      502
Social Wortker        201     190     231      261     291     320      350
Toe. Lab A2            59      5f      55       65      78      90      100
Tee. Lab A3            40      s8      61       78      75      92      114
i- No longer trained.
M edical Assistants are presently trained at the A2 level, but are
traditionally men and becooe chiefs of health centers.
Source: NDESA, project preparation team, August 1985



-51-
ANNE I
Page 12 of 20 pages
Table 15:  FIOJECTIONS OF AVERAGE NUMBER OP PFAREDICAL PERSONNEL
BY GORENN  HEALT8 CENMR
Categories                  1985     1986     1987     1988      1989     1990    1991
Medical Assistant              1.06     0.91     0.95      0.99     1.10     1.21    1.32
Nurse &2                       0.62     0.51     0.50     0.50      0.52     0.53    0.55
Nurse A3                       0.80     0.67     0.67     0.66      0.66     0.69    0.72
Nurses Aides (A4)              0.51     0.64     0.85      1.04     1.22     1.39    1.56
Nutritionist/Social Worker    2.70      2.31     2.18      1.96     1.82     1.97    2.07
Average Personnel
per Health Centers             5.69     5.04     5.15     5.15      5.32     5.79    6.22
Total Nuuber of
Government Health Centers       73       95       95       100      105      105      110
Source: Project Preparation Team, August 1985



52 -
AN=  1
Page 13 of 20pages
Table 16: STAFFING PATTERN FPo A3 SCHOOL
Qualifications                 Title                     Number
Nurse or level Al              Director                    I
Nurse or Level Al              Deputy Director             1
Nurse A2 Level                 Teachers                    7
Humanities                     Teaching Assistant          2
TM"A                                                      11
Administrative Personnel
Administrator               I
Secretary                   1
Typist                      2
Warehouse pn                1
Driver                      2
Other                      15
TOTAL                                                     22
GRAND TOTAL                                               33
Source: Training Un1t, MINISAPASO, 1985



-53-
Pep 14 of 20 p_
lbJ 17: IN IIE IMTAInI  PM A IL   KIEi -
lb.of   Nob. of der for
Cmte£    PItmumi           T      #       g. o  w Dstic   Traine   Courses
dc A                             ad   6 dqe                2D    1          6 day
_m acatf
prm  mth
(2D per mcua         -W activitlin         6 dap          2X         1       6 days
,_          --.___                                                  -_ _,
'rses A2, A3,        -W activiti.es        6 days           40       2/1    12 d8ys
(40 per iidLal       -W activitie          6 day           40        2/1    12 days
reg-ai)               (iw-Clincal)
-4m actvities        6 das            40       2/1    12 day
Social io*mxk        -Integration MR       6 do"s          80        4/1    24 days
activities
(SODper uil-ibsof the w
reqiamian   food
_________   -i'PactivitLes       _ _ _ __ ___ _
Tota oww 3 ysau                                                     12      72 4ay
Akrap per yr                                                         4      24 days
(20 times per semI  X



-54-
ANNEX 1
Page 14 of 20 pages
Table 18: SOURCES OF DRUGS, 1984
Killion R1    % of Total
OPHAR - direct import                    142          21%
local purchase                  28           4
BUFMAR                                   28            4%
Comurcial Pharmacies                     330          47Z
French and Belgian Aid                   167          24Z
TOTAL                                   695          100I
TOTAL (US$000,000)
Source: Appraisal mission, August 1985.



ANEX I
Page 16 of 20 pages
Table 19: HEALTH RECURRENT EKPENDITURE FINANCING BY SOURCES, 1984
Amount        I of              Zof
(million RF)     Source            Grand Total
GOVERJOI
NOUSA                     943.0         89.0                34.4
MINIPRISEC                 60.0          5.7                 2.2
Army                       11.5          1.1                 0.4
Others                     45.0          4.2                 1.6
TOTAL                      1059.5        100.0                38.6
MISSION/NOOs                503.5        100.0                18.4
BILATERAL AID
Belgium                   424.0         70.8                15.5
France                     40.0          6.7                 1.5
Germany                    45.0          7.5                 1.6
USA                        76.0         12.7                 2.8
USSR                       14.0          2.3                 0.5
TOTAL                       599.0        100.0                21.9
MDLTILATERAL AID
OHS                        45.0         17.3                 1.7
UN                         12.0          4.6                 0.4
UNICEF                     69.0         26.5                 2.5
PAM                        49.0         18.8                 1.8
FED                        85.0         32.7                 3.1
TOTAL                       260.0        100.0                 9.5
INDIVIDUALS
Fees                       66.7         28.5                 2.4
Drugs                     167.0         71.5                 6.1
TOTAL                       233.7        100.0                 8.5
INSURANCE
Civil Servants             52.0         61.2                 1.9
Private Firms              33.0         38.8                 1.2
TOTAL                        85.0        100.0                 3.1
GRAND TOTAL                2740.7                .           100.0
Source: MDRSA/Appraisal Mission, 1985



Table 20: MOUSA BUDGET 1984/1985
1984                                             1985
Budgeted Items                             .                                    xof                              Z X  of
Percent of     Budget         Total                      1985
Budgeted        Spent         1984 Budget    Item Spent     Spent         Budgeted     Budget
Personnel                567,714,132    456,256,939        60             80             57        675,923,122    64
Drugs and Medical
Supplies              151,790,084    151,718,737        16            100             19        152,206,012    14
Transport                 74,228,588     62,764,049         8             85              8         77,745,950     7
Administrative
Supplies               6,380,000       3,232,467         1             51              0.4        8,092,670     1
Support to Special
Programs              70,067,910      66,610,901        6              95              7.6       64,160,000     6
Maintenance               81,583,711     64,154,714         9             79               8        8?,035,000     8
TOTAL                    951,764,425    804,737,807       100             85             100     1,061,162,754   100
Social Affairs (S.A.)   135,797,868    137,495,288         12            101              15       116,109,484    10
TOTAL INCLUDING S.A.  1,087,562,293    942,233,095                                               1,177,272,238
Source: MOHSA, adapted by Appraisal Mission, August 1985                                                       .
-A
o d



-357-.
ANNEX I
Page 18 of 20 pages
Table 21:  LIST OF 25 IMALTN CRBN1TS
New buildings       Water    Solar   N2 reha. of
Comoune         Prefecture     M1  K2  44 M5 LI  L2  suppl.  energ.   ext. build.
1.  Gahanga        Kigali         X            X   X          X        X           301
2.  Kajevuba       Xigali         X   X   X            X                           187
3.  Nyambuye       Gitara_a                        X   X                           574
4.  Mesambira      Gitarana                X   X   X   X                           238
5.  Kinazi         Gitarama                    X   x   X      X        X           280
6. Musha           Butare                  X  X        X      X        X           194
7.  Shake          Butare         X   X   X   X                                    107
8.  Coko           Gikongoro               X   X              X        X           289
9. Nushubi         Gikongoro               X   X              X        X           280
10. Ngara          Glkongoro               X   X              X        X           371
11. Yove           Cyangugu       X   X   X   X               X        X           150
12. Gatonde        Ruhengeri                       X          X        X           409
13. Mhcaca         Rubengeri      X   X   X   X               X        X           155
14. Kinigi         Ruhengeri           X       X                       X           268
15. Muhura         Byamba         X   X            X   X               X           410
16. Gakenke        Syumba                  X   K   K X                 X           175
17. Buyoga         Byumba                  X   X       X      X        X           172
18. Rukira         Kibungo                     X                       X           398
19. Kirehe         Kibuago                 X   X   X   X      X        X           294
20. Rukumberi      Kibumgo                 X   X       X      X        X           219
21. Nujanyke       Gisenyl                             X                           453
22. Muramba        Glsenyt                     X   X   X               X           548
23. Nurara         Gisenyi                 X   X              X        X           534
24. Nyange         Kibuye                          X                   X           n/a
25. Gisovu         Ribuye         X____6_14_1__22                       K          n/a
6 6 14 }8 22
Note: Five further locations remain to be selected. It can be assumed that the amount of
;i3 required for upgrading/rehabilitation of these five locations will, on average,
correspond to the average amount of work required for the above 25 locations already
selected and surveyed.
MI: Consultation
M2: Hospitalization
M4: Maternity
M5: Nutrition Center
LI: Housing (uedical assistants)
L2: Housing (nurses)



-58-
A?RIg 1
RV  19 of 20 p9
Table 22: MOM FAMIYO 1         RW1
-U* (F UECAL ASSXSJV*(
(ph)
Isczl.ptiwm                    1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   199I 1umL
sEeiflDm if . VI_
drairLPg Specialit (foreigii)   2                      1                     3
rinf  Speetalist  (local)    2          1      1       1       1      1      7
HES pezblIst                           6               1                     7
'a1in   Specalist                     12      12                            24
MM        URCES; t ILOR
eT.tcaL Assstm                                12      12                    24
R  M R.1st isd                          3      3                             6
*RQ         MV          = --_ -
ArX itect                       6      12     12      12       6            48
IUrAL                            10     34      40      27       7      1   119
So& :  Apraisal Mssm, Augst 98
Ibte: Sixty staff-mtbs fo       P specialist wll be proulded for the    i      nddtut1a1
Sg ~~aona by W.



-59-
ANNEX I
Page 20 of 20 pages
Table 23: KEY PROJECT INDICATORS
1985      1991
1.  Process Indicators
A.  Strengthening Famil1 Health Services
(a) Number of health center staff retrained   200         1,400
(b) Number of additional A4 trained
and deployed                               -            200
(c) Number of peripheral health facilities
upgraded or rehabilitated                  -             30
(d) Percentage of health centers delivering
FP services                                33%          100%
B. Institutional Strengthening
(a) Training of MOHSA/ONAPO regional teams    -           completed
(b) Fellowship and study tours                 -          completed
(c) Supply of vehicles and equipment           -          completed
(d) Construction of Regional Offices             2              8
(e) Health financing study                     -          completed
C_ Human Resources Development
(a) Construction of two A3 Nursing Schools    -           compleced
(b) Training of teachers                       -          comr.eted
D.  Population Policy
(a) Operational research study No. 1           -          completed
(b) Operational research study No. 2           -          completed
II. Outcome Indicators
(a) Contraceptive prevalence                   1%         10%
(b) Child health monitoring                    10%        30%
(c) Deliveries in health facilities            5%         30%
(d) Prenatal care                              80%        80%1/
1| In 1985, the average number of prenatal consultations per pregnant
woman was two. The objective for 1991 is to have at least four contacts.



-60-
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 10 pages
RWM
FMILY HEALTH PROJECT
SUARY ACCOUNTS COST SUIARY
(RUF '000)               (US$ '000)                  Z Total
--  -----   % Forei         n ase
Local  Foreign    Total    Local Foreign Total   Exchange   Costs
I1 INVESMENT COSTS
A* CIVIL VORtKS                        210.060 29l1486   501,546  2,122  2.944  5066            S8      43
I. FURNITURE                            10,816  169224    27.040    109    164    273            60       2
C. EUIPMENT                              5.660  44.000    49.60        57    444    502          89       4
Do EJHICLES                                  -  21,020    21,020        -    212    212         100       2
E. STUDIES                              11200   99600    20,800    113       97    210          46       2
Ft ESSENTIAL MEDICAL PRODUCTS                -  27,478    27,478        -    278    278         100       2
G. TECHNICAL ASSISANCE                     700 163,984   16.484         7  1,656  1.663         100       14
H. TRAINING                             44v463   49133    48,596    449        42    491          9       4
It FELLOUSHIPS                               -   13,600    134600       -    137    137         100       1
j. PPF                                  17,424  26,136    43,560    176    264    440            60       4
Total INYESTfENT COSTS                    300.323 617661    917.984  39034  6.239  9,273            67      79
1I. RECURRENT COSTS
At SALARIES                           179t422       25   179t446  1,812       0   14813          0       15
D. OPERATING COSTS ADMIN               10.987   49650    15,637    111       47    158          30        1
C. UTILITIES                            8.250        -     8.250      83       -     83          -       1
0. TRAVEL ALLOMANCE                    190,00        -    o1o0      101      -    101           -       1
E. UENICL£ OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE    5700Q  22,800    28.500       58    230    288          80       2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                     2149359  27,415   241.833   2.165    278  2.443           11      21
Total FASELINE COSTS                       514.682 645,136  1.159.S17  5.99  6.517  11.715           56     100
Physical Contingencies                    7.818  114293    19,111       79    114    193          59       2
Price Contingencies                     127.871  123.852   251.723   1t292   19251   2.543        49      22
Total PROJECT COSTS                        650,371 780280  1,430,651  6569  7,882  14.451           55     123
Mrch 4. 1986  16:00



FANILT HEALTH PROJECT
Suramv k     ts bi Year
(RV)
Base Costs                                         Foreign Exchlne
86          87          8            89          90          91          Tahl         2        t
_sa~w   ===u=a z=== =S:115;5 =  ===u            =52:=-:: 5-SS .S-'= C$:_                ¢zSa =S=wxt==
I. IWJESTWI cOST
A. CMVI     S                           298330  160.221.00   184,087P400  11169i0O   42 ,350                -    0,546100  58.1  291.486.7
B, FRITtME                                      -   5.2200      10.910.000   9Y2609009    1,650,00                 27040.00  60.0  16224000
C. EGNT                                 3,000,0C0    1399009000   16380,00    12P50000   3850,000                  OP- 4.66   0 8B.6  44."000000
Do WCLES                                        -  14,0,000              -   4,14,000    2180P000             -    21,020,00   100.0  21.09000
Et Sul-ES                               7,0000   7,200.00   6.200.00           200.000           -      200,000    200.00   46,2   9600.000
F. ESSEiIALI. 1CML PIOST                        -   2t2459,    3.487260   5.081.160   7,00,100   99563.400    27.4779070  10.0  2.477.970
St TECHIICAL ASSISTAC                  30196,000  52,096,00   4090%6.000  309096.000   12,100,00        1009000   164.6814000  99.6  163.984000
N. TRAIING                              14200#000  124315,200   8,745,200   9.045,200   8,745,200   854,200    48.96000   8.5   4.1339000
I. FELLOWSHIPS                                  -   6,400,000   4,800,000   2,400,00             -           -    13,600,000  100.0  13.600.000
J. PPm                                 4350,9000             -                                                     43-560S 000  60.0  26.1369000
-            ----------- --~~~---- --- - ----------…-- -             - -       - -b          -
total IWMSTET COSTS                       87.939s300 274,M,150 274M70S,860 184621I,410  78,010.650   18,408,60    9174983970  67,3  617,660,940
II. REORIEWT COSTS
A. SALARIES                              539,500   13,400.380   187468380  33.9459380  524204.380  60,610,3B0   17V9446,400   0.0        24.750
3, oPRAnIN  COSTS ADMNI                        -   3,527,400   3,027.400    340279400   3,027,400   3.027,400    15637W000  29.7   4,650,00
C. UTILITIES                                   -    1,200.000    192009000   1.650,000    2,100.000 2,100,000      09250.000    0.0           0
D. TRAWL ALLOWANCE                             -   2s000000   2.000,000    2.0000       2400000    2.000.000    10000 ,2000     0.0           0
E. VHICLE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE            -   5,460.000   5.46000    5460.000   5?860,000   69260.000    28.500.000  80.0  22,100.000
Total R£CIRNT COSTS                          539,500  25.587.780  30433,780  46.082.780  65.191.780  73.997.780   241.833.400  11.4  27,474.750
Total BSELINE COSTS                        88,478800 299M85M930  305.139,640 230.704,190 1434202.430  92.406.380  1.159.817.370  55.6 641356498    %
Phvsical Contimes                               -   6370.235   6370.235  46250.968   2.119268                 -    19110.705  59.1  11,M2674
Price Cntinimncies                       1,572.158  32,907.225  584161991  64.303,235  52,937900  41840.482   251iM7991   49.2 123.851.501
Total PROECT COSTS                         90,050.958  339,1634390 369.671.866 299.28392  198,259.598  134.246.862  1.4309651.066  54.5 780.279.873
_:JC__"  w:e_:=_x==s                     :*: _a=53                                  : 
Foreig n Exdw? 637089120 2204629.104 2249739,882  169t149.425  799081.994  22,971,347   780,27973   0.0                                         0     *
_______ __                                    ___._ _.1                                                                                                  S
March 4. 1986 t5:S55



-62-                                          ANNME 2
Page 3 of 10 pages
FAMLY HLTH PROJECT
Pfoject Cmpwna ts bh  Yer.
{FUl '000)
pan Cost                                 Total
36       87      Be        89                 91        RF      WJtS'O00
A. S_ISSIN  FMILT HEALTH SERVICES
mEwn TUlD                                           2.200   11.215    8.245    %,245    8*245       24       47#.396        47#
3       W. LIES                                         -    2246    3.487    5,01    7?.10Q   9Ma            27.479        278
ROIM01TAI         IAB OF H                              - C.MM    MM  47.8    7.                      -   287.312   2.W2
*Totl STEII          6NB FAMILY WELT  SEIICES          2M200  109.232  107503   62.212   63.231   17.809        362P186      3U6S5
so ISTIIIMOL STRlEN6
CEI L  LEE                                         18.490   46o425   27.745   269345   16.94M    44945       140.895      19423
REOIIIL LEEL                                        1.200   59413   50.673   50.673    64119    6,219        174.299      1,761
STotl ITlIUTZOHL STRENO11HENIN                        19,690  105.838   78.419   77.018   239064  t11164        315,193     13184
C. lIE  HESORCES SWLOFENIT
UECEJIUMEWN/TRIWINS Of NiRhIO AIDS A4                  50    6*284   11,630   16&976   22.322   27.66        84.930        8a8
TRAIhI  W   3 N URSES                               29B3   44.816   834353   54.303   26.546   276526    239.527          2.419
Stubhf-tui DM   RESOURCES DEVELOPHENt                  3,033   51100   94.983   7279   48.868   55M194         324,457      3.277
B. PIJLnATIOI  ULCY STUDIES                           10000 o7000    69000             -        -         -      23,000        232
E. PROJECT iMNSEIIENT                                  9,996   260715   18.235   209193    9.039    8,239        91.421        923
F. EFUNDINS  F m                                      43.560        -         -        -        -        -       43.560        440
Ttotl IaSELIIE COSTs                                    88v479  299.884  3059140  230,704  143.202   92v406   141599817       11.715
Phoisal CmtiMgrties                                       -    6.370    6.370    4.251    2?119         -       19.111        1N3
Price CntinuCios                                      1.572   32,907   58t162   64P303   52,938   41,840      25117.3       29543
Total PRlECT CaSTS                                      90,051  3391U63  369672  29925   198260  1349247  1430.651           14,451
Forvi*  Exchan                                       63,708  22O629  224.740  169.149   79.082   229971        780,280      7.882
Narh 4. 1986 15:58



RAND
FAMILY HEALTH PRJECT
Fin,ncinJ Plan by Project Comuents
(US$ '000)
INTRNATIONA
KVELUT   VORLD HEALTH  GOVERNME  OF
ASSOCIATION   OR6A1IZATION     RVANDA          Total                  Locel
(Excl.  Duties I
Amount          Omt   2    Amt              A Aount  %    For. £xch. Taces)   Taxes
A. STE     EINS FAMILY HEALTH SERVICES
Il-SERVICE MINING PRGRAM                               600  100         -    -        -     -      60      4          64     536         -
MEDICAL SUPPLIES                                       3n7100           -    -        -     -       372    3         372       -         -
RENHAILITATION/WSRAIN  OF HCs                        3,572   98         -    -       80     2    3,652   25        2222   ls430           -
Sub-total SR QNtNG6 FAILY HALTH SERVICS                 4,544   9          -    -       80     2    44624   32        2.65    1s966
8. NSTITUTIONAL STREMBTIENING
CENTRAL LEV                                            738   44       725   43      230    14    1,643   12       1I483      210         -
RMIONAL LEPE                                         1,941   89         -    -      248    It   29189   15         1t254     935         -
SbTotal INSTUTIMK  STRENBTIENINP                        2,679   69       725   19      478    12    3402   27         2J?37   1,145          -
C. liliN  RESRCES  EOPE
ECRUIMENTTRAININI IF NJRSINB AIDS A4                      -    -        -    -    1ll39   100    1y139    8            0   1t139         -
TRANIN  OF A3 IURStS                                 2i073   6q         -    -      92     31    2i999   21        lU445  1sS53          -
Sub-Total NM  RESOUES  EELPE                            2,973   50         -    -    2064    50    4,137   29         1U445   2v692
D, PYUATI1 POLIC STUDIES                                  248   98         -    -        6     2       255    2         132     123
Es PR CT MIAGEJW T                                        819   74         -    -      294    26    14113               646     468          -
F. RE           ODJEF mPP                                 440100           -    -        -     -       440    3         264     176         -
---------------------*--  ---- ---   -------  --- - -  - - - *- *- 
Total Di*ursewnt                                         104803   75       725    5    2,923    20   14,451  100        7.B82 ,6569            -
-     -__ _______ ,_____ _______ ______ _______-_____--- --_- - -_-  - -_ - - -     - --
Harvh 4, 1986  16:02                                                                                                                                       °  .
0o



FAMILY IEALY  PIOJET
Finminj Plan b  Dishursmnt Catforw
1twLw                tIUJ  6At       Q 9WRhCT OF
IssUcIATIn    I aDTN                mmA"               Total
Local (Excl. Duties I
Abomt    I       Amumt  2         Abount   2       Amot        2    For, Exch.      Tom)        Taxas
A. C       nL NM                             6.2869740              -    -            0    0    62860740   44   3.663.021        2.423720 
8. R IIl 3                                     264.913   80          -           66,228   20       331,141    2     1"99O67        132.074         -
C. EUVNHENIT                                   473,7n2  90           -    -     11?9678   20       598391    4      530,683         670707         -
D. UE SRU                                      248,187  100          -   --           -    -       249B117    2     248.37               -         -
E. STUDIES                                     233,572  100          -    -           0    0       2334572    2     110,504        1234068         -
F. 11AI SUFPLIDS                               3729122  100          -    -           -    -       3729122    3     372.122              -         -
69  TIOlIlAL ASSISTECN                      1U2124318  100           -    -           -    -    1.2129318    9   1.203794            84574          -
I. TOJICM . ASSISTANCE - VWO AMIORS                     -     725t37   100            -    -       72537      5     75,375               -          -
I. tR*11W1B                                    616.070  100                           0 -  0    0  6164070    4      479?11        568.1 N-9
Jo FELLUUSIIPS                                 160.170  100         -    -            -    -       160,170    1     160,170              -         -
K. SAIARES                                           -    -          -    -   29418402  100    2.418302   17             259     2.419.543         -
Lo OPR1lE COSTS A?INWOU"STRAn                  141.019   70          -    -      59,681   30       2000700    1      59.930        140771 
. uTnmEs                                             -    -          -    -     108499  100        108.43P    1            -       103.489
1. TRAWL ALLOIW=E                               99,062   70          -    -      38,599   30       123,660    1            -       12B.660         -
0. YEtCLE WATI08 AND FMNTEWNCE                 2599197   70         ^    -      111.085   30       370t282    3     296.591         73t691 
P. E1uD1M    or P"!                            440.000  100          --    -                       440,000    3     2646000        176.000
Total Disbumrnent                             10,903tO85   75   72375    5   2,922,561   20   14451.021  100   7#801?615           6,5669406          -
Rarch 4. 1986  16:01
i' a



Ok -
U
q o
_                          #§l~~~~~~~~Wt 54 *t q"
_-_                            -   _-___
Wg1 VUi aR '   tt4't U     W'S U'W`  tW"        "Me* EIIWS 41111'S UPM'  t"Wtt   LtfUt UWat9                                                                                           M 1
2qt a"  w'   'w  1M"   0'ae s    ItWO    V6'?4" u) t Iq                            ,"'t1   £0'H  - 1) "9"21 $4 t  "It  M   t                '    z  u.            u"w         ims
us'0   *    lf1t tt U           -      t'  t 811o61  -       -w WU's t'tm-            -       WS'1SI UtWiN'o  t     -           I    -    -    it                aE      z1z1 Wa^n
-  -- -   -                          -               -- -
^^~~~~4tt I*"'1 $W           exU            t"o  ditt awit vlat4t OW% tl Attn tt                                                                               am    INH  I wl- 01
-it's   -  *    .        Ug'5   *  8tlt5  *  -                -        8NMMO'  "5*                           -    - t -                   -    mw.IS.n  soS
W   DIt  wIe WIII@ SWU'           Wit    -   Ug9'4            S9'   V        "'I't S l 'S m'W  -      ut                                                           l o  it   M    it   Vt   it    --
U'.,         WU  We a'S       g              tu'u'w   U'e0t 112PI 6ll6'  SW'11'4  mua'   -            Wu   iN    -S    U - -               6     -        .  _    .  .I
,u.   a'   m'  mIt its's   uss               us      twa'  twn: tlwilt" seW':  w'm                           6?<   6      6  eU    *t *t1Wt -  11              1 _       ga  wi1
1011m  amO       M    M     "             tt wtt  wmw   I&W  tlaw's ISM1  4W'1ttl  -              IW6   It    0  et    0  et  ee                      -wui " 
sj             *     a'   USUSSawls                   4tgw4  -        W'UI "PC"   le,tt4  aW'*'   -                  5        .               I St   of    -    '                    S1
46'SI   NJS  NJ'S  J'S  tW9 4111"611I61'                  Wa'?  atd'419'  WItS'S111 659'S                                                                 am 1111is  Now 1151   ow  40w
aw's -    ma'.i uo=  ds't a's*    sew -                            'wwt saQe'us wr                -                               es                                             -       '6   ,_t
-   ---  - W                             -f -   -                      -uttt -     -*u -                                                                               ¢  sa eI  mf lin
sot   -      ges  'sn   's             -     m.tIWOm'SW  eagq  06'5W16 UL6*1'U-                      i'LtSi           UP=I    5a                      'in               MON"
t't            '   ,*   IllCw   us'   tt  m'l'               usu'  w'ta'   'r'   snws                uSint  at  *  et         t et    *;  c1  N    N - 
WiNS am am sums's9
"*I~~~~~'
_   _      _       _      _ --.m  -                                                          -- ____ -
2650U  O4  *       U   tS   t          V   O*    t4   * 16            0      e U   e*    o                   O                 *    *         
, ~ ~   ~    ~   a ,S                                          5 ,ita .  ................. .       
_Simaw     mtm   Is SVA
=M tw



Ut','  5Mw  5Mw  am't mwi  amI'  Wh-                  OK-l        &WUt", Ow.0. mluftsW  twgMSPU            .1 g'ggu: 'at'                                                                         gmWamn
vgqIc  Om'   we.  It.    aw           b'a    -           Sm                                                              ON" 'Ua   a'a(U'NI gt  0   S  S  I  41  I  -                    UOM  do M MI'a
sw-u    am'   am'  s'sO    amE IW   GM'b'st  sisC     pswats  .a'w'   fmgos,  wemi'   -                                                          .       .s..
ml,m
Ml u111111-1
W-0  466fam                               sokw-c 1040-9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tm    m i
to a    tel  45M5 oft         am n      t'   Wt    wi'Su'               s.awsi ,wm'aCW sse'm'u  w'            .     $ as  m',eMm 4                                                               15KU    on-
wa.w  tOM    us-   a"w   UK. NM'     owl    mi'ss  s'                   tm's.   w.ss-h  100 's ,'s w   ooqg's-
5*4,   -  -  Is's    UPS  SatS    - ~~~~~~~qu's  nt~~~',   g~~',                                                                    ows'.',a -  -          --I
W-wo41-    is                ms -o              W.U     -        -        -0W4               kiEr's                                                      two is   s   -  -  -a -       sIVW-P111m-
SliM    -  m't   is.  Is's    -  m's.s's  -  -  ,g'sa,'s   m's'.amAM stvtm',0 - a                                                                               un I
itt-WI  -  U'S  Wi's  U's    -  tU'OWtt  -  SWEPt  tilt,  *im'   -                                     - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'    IIIm aI. '
Ism.1  A"offl   dit"a    m4w   OWON    W40   VA-zo-al  $WM'#I 6WW-J   OWUPa  ON-. Asiwis e    an-mm PIRA-0
amo            5Sf       E m'A         tb SUs k-SUS                -    Utsta55Z 5u4                      - *5s  Sl'utm                                                                       wI
-       -       -      Sit'.. s. .   ..    ..   . t~ ' ......     .   ....................  ..   ..
515'5   -      -     -        -      Sm    -                                                                                         -      -   --  -                                                      It 
macn' -        us"ilrm'        WaMs 15115   lt-at  ti-t'd               U-tt   *5'Ui"   Ut-UI'tia                         qw    0        a      a       amlsNow'o                                     541
-  -  mis    OWlS  III'S?   555's  IiO'sO'st  -  -    St64.'U            fk%' s'.'   ons'   mStI d;               I   S  S                                        tuse
us's  sooit    'a; ,wnt   m                  all-Ill"   -        s'-t  u'i'i   rt-Is,  ut-sav    OSts   WU-I5                     t a  i  t  a   a
UNil'uma *
-o   -0           rn'    Aw              III'ts    -   stSl'tt             51st'      atL'  lit-SM'PM-toumiwa 5
-  -10  -                                                       li- m"a- -      spot                                            -asa
m's -  - m's  Us'                    MU-S               -        oi'wz teea   -              -         a-on sa              asas       -          s
as's    -  -  -  milt us'm   *-      is-     iUW-       -        -          essosg-                     ms    5 -                tSt- U Ca
33ws 411111AN



ownuw                                         1wholift~~~~~~~~~~66.14 CoNiOWti 1*1
I. CIVIL me1  - W1m   ai 613
6111 K~~~~~9UN? aNTI  - - - - - - .                    3.067.716  3.36,33            - ~~~~~~~~~~~-------  -- --------- -- 9.7    ~p 342                    -        -                     4
56*-Tota  IVIL 411315- KSi    Al PM3                                                     3.08.71  33.08.86 346.37                    st   4w 7t.64.46   3.109 AW72     321.62                                               Mm - 41.1
6. CeVlm10 - gm~ Al mINI
six1 Rwin6   con3                          -                                                     -361           3. -  -  - -     -3v3.677 -M#4                                3.372    35.5                  -       -    691
8INC    Cm                               . .          .55.               .     .                          321,15.39   34,194.366        -               646,2.747                    mom3260   36.66      -            60021
h1.4.1u CIVIWM  - =111 ai OM8                                                                        .13 3 353219 341436--72.9PO49                                              33.37    23435  36.36                  - 7I
1131mom   OmanPw                2511MM      -  12  82            -    -   241I.66.46               11,269.406  14954,06                                    V -- .543.40S   -  3623    1410*4                  -            236.286
D.                                                                                               -          - -  6P752260  70249.3'6          -              14.61010M       -            4. OM       3,72      -           8431,
to BMWS                                                                      --                                 16.318.39  11.64,36           -          -210464,7?              -  - 1416112WO4               -            162116
F. VEI1121                                    -   -   -        22       -    4 2466,000          -                      -2.663    2.999.47               -    .m0.649        -       -            3143  16466           -    34
.116    5 X     OF .1.                                      .5.1.            .-                                    31#6067    764.41    *18.464          -   153698                        sr*59    NM72    4,846            SAO.6
1.4.11316143  OMT                                                                            34771       431#111  66.72914 5646.92    3.46941               - 211.17.61   1* 3131.31k,      99613   $Wm59   16.00            2.112*4
a. Wiwtm cu
61403108cm63man2                          .        .- .-.           .-.148,94  1.145.616   1.714.443                                                                             -                      5.04   01174    17,33
6683   -           IEIS I16                                              -                    -          --  6.12.97   10.431071  19.721o6  *&766,244                                                  MM  84686.6  190421    4723191
U*15- UK 689663                           .   .   .   16   9    20  246   102406                                        3 --   .0741   12*456421  17.74946    14.1621166  -                      .oI 1243  IM1            84
UinnlTIB                                  -         - -            - -                                                    S576.4  1.221.66    1.21.47     346640                                       l  - 570 =23    1147    atom
6*-tota A 1016081                                                                               - n                       13.t".313 32.43!4   3#9692.177    "IA1.20         -                 -1305   396463.0    66546
m. VIsz or NMis Am
maim  KLUM                                                                            W~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 14.69 1.1#042    1.109.4    1.272.69    163*71.16   5.974.436     10.494   1UAW  1214   coo13    MM15 46
I        tS  0331*1           66         - 66   126  80  266  40   1U.03                    -  5724216  12.469.71  26.33489  29.141.114 3.002465  266.738411            -VAN81     127,97   onto6    MM.4   11.9   8416.8
IU.55.5517                                                                             51.233          -                      --                           5.2       S1o-                         -       -
told1         con 51                                                                             3.     6.06,22    13.13*3   34.5W7,3  62.91.67  66.o3b.   166445461          O1f   MM26     MM636  39.13  636.166 W   2466.1
ase*mm"  noass"  wxwo-"MMwomonmomom   aoo   amoma    *o mn
104.1                                                                                         3.3461.1131278.2    6.7.     46,349.                   W=419p2    now2.22v40s5a315    1.1   P1.4l.13461   13d    6      e.m3 594  *11b
-   in          U *S~~~~~W~~ mUswIm.*~~~~  ,w  m~~m                                   m     ~~~a   *



fElLy £MTN P Clt
Table 104I", u  nL   FtICT STMEs
DMaltd Cost Table
Totals InutwAM  CainSecis
hantlbw                                       Totals locludind Ctinemncies                                      W
Ihit     86  S     B  Uf              TOtl   it cost       6          8          Be    89  01    Total             86     87              99 "091   TOW
~               * r r eu  5             c                   -------- -ur----- -----  --              mo ur  eva r   e:,rn:   eu  eee  -n u u---r u   1we     aMtmt  xe  eu=
T. SIES
ElUIPIENlT                                    -.100                                                   -         - -  -  -  X, , -  3.10 0    31,364       -      -  -  -  -  31364
SHORI-lUEl CUILTmI?s  KNM ffonT       -   3   3   -   -   -    6  1.0OOO0                  - 3322350  3.56390t1   -  -  -  6.5                    - 33.59 35.95  -  -  -  69U 4
um/UTMTIN  cm                         -    -    -    -    -    -    -              7.245.000 4429,909  3#556.632  -  -         15231432   73,162 44.74   3s,26   -  -  -  153.053
sqh-Ttal STDIES                                                                      10350w000  7N752,I15   7.129.l13   -  -  - 25.222.29    14.4S5  7MM305        2    -  -  - 254.7M
Total INVESIT COSTS                                                                     10;350,000 7M752150 71209133        -  -   2S.22223   104.S4   71.305 71sm    -  -  - 254M
e#eereer     ee ss. rnuec eer   e:-  #e   e   _uuu    ,ecUu  urue  srt_s  ere  ae# u         w
Total                                                                                    10.350,000  7,752,150  7.120l133   -  -  - 252m,2122      10400s 71.305  71.2    I  -  -  254771
ccu     :ceecc  geccucee e:e arr ic   c   uc ea: geeisrnu  #uw    m  rr _  e#en,r
Ka?eh 4. M16 15:52
ph



FlslllltY tlOICtIf tDS
rFlt tll5.    r _
3.tld$ Cte   t ble
bit   o6s0 s7o 90 a                  t.low   tCot       1 66         7          B7 e                                                                                        90 n    11    .1  YT
1. inInw COr
A. tlWIDS,                                                       -                            -  a.io7.45o                 -          -                -   1.397.65          -  t186          -   -        -            _     11.l66
.                                          -         -   2   -   -    3   "NO"                -  1.5301              -  2.505.7             - '             I4OWA            -  10t9a         -  IS49           -       -    36S7
Co I-TIom c .tuiT            11111         - N      -   -   -   -                             -  6.644.7t0 -                                                                     6-.0 -       - 6712                          got"1D
3. tl      tEt Y W R I    M       5O1     12  12  32  I2   -   -   40   033.000  1303O5    11,070.070  117173,6  12,776.400                            -  46.065.124   1.504  It,19  319435 12.0-                            4312
t. 0113                                    -   -    -    -    -    -                          -    221.410    237467    25m6a0              -    2474   1.06 t361                 2#2W7   2.400   2.532        -   24        1l0145
otaln swSiWE  013                                                                                   202112.011 1.33  IS.W.216                 -    M674    .414.914   104s54  70h323 122WM   156,942              -   2946   3
It.  n   m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
333813          '                      -  12  12  12  32 12 L       0    350              -    46%129    497,688        M2M26    569.tl8    6e74s8   2M674435            -   4.61    5.w27   S319        756   6.12       27M9
*-   2  12  12  12  12    0        30.00           -    39M.6M2    426,s0    45f451        M N40      522,91    292.716           -   4,7   4.30    4.61   4*3           5.279    23.19
980 3-  24  24  24  24  24  120    23.O0                                                  -    6119112    64.04    6942           7480#04    3014%    3151490            -   6.175   6.407   7.O70   74    3.04           510
M                                      -  24  24  24  24  24  120          8W000          -    22630    227S5          243441    260.401    278.715    .222712           -   2 14*   2.298   2.6        2.3     2415      M2.M
a3m                                    -  24  24  24  24  24  120    12400                -    319946    3412M         365t1    390722    41,047        t.s34.173        -   3222   3.447    43         3947   4.22s3    137
Sflo4I gum                                                                                   -  2.006f609  2Ml;2M1S   2#2974704        s .43291   2.433.374   31.500        -  20,210      3     23207  24.1   26W          116
3. ll                                     -  12  £2  12   2  12   60   1400                  -  1.328940   1.42196   1.521103   1.60W009   1,741*969   7N64OW7              -  3344  14.3a   353          16.45  17.36    7.9s6
C. am         cm$                         -   -    -    -    - -O                            -  3.4M    3.517.49t  3412,940   4sh              4..7    19.694,33            -395   35.934  351s5   4328    40.    lmI
-. tLWIt ,LW                                   I   I   I          1    5 2.000.0             -  2,214,00  24369,9439 50            2#713340   2.93.22  32.73742             -  2Z.1    23#3    2S5US  27.400   2%t    t26W0
E.1                                                                 - mm-.   .    .    .    . .  -  30.4       324         34741      37.73       39.775     174.501        -      So?     3        35       375     402      1*763
tOWl                                                                                     I, CtS  - 29419h9    9.5036   0202.52)  10924154  11676,3     51.709d47                -  93.36   96.353  140I"   110.     117.90   Sl)223
-               -                     -           3---                                   - -_i_ --------
Ttobl                                                                                     10445,80  29.35.970  21.640,10   25,739.73   092.5   31.903,05te2 310.2036    104434  29839   29.W  59.99?7 13035120.19  1.13.3173
6 .0 41936 5ts13
ee
0'
o 
9.3k



-70-
4CK 3
Paw  1 of 3 pa
MW: FJMELY EDUI F=r
emtuIstL  Sebudulek for            trui±    Ativittes
Year0    YearI   Yew 2    Year3    Year 4    Yew 5
gl       P FP S.rvies
Urser4doe tra1Dtg -
&cicl AssItant (40 per an)                   XDaOKai  aaacaaaoa    _aaoaoaa a    x      aaa
xzqeqs (80 per DQuO)             .aaaagaa    a                 aao aaaa  Xaaaaaaaa  _aaaaaaa
Social Wb*ers/
NIztritiou1st  (160 per ann=)              a a        aaav0CO a
Qwdaoun dselopwit                     MCO
Tring A4
Qwri&Au  eW-lopuent                   XXXXXK
T--in   of i   talrs                  maaa
Oitput of A  (40 per Xum)                     aaamaaac   aoawx m   aaaaa   _ Kaaaoaaa  aaaaaa
acapie Suply
im    aserm                    X       X K             mOC      XXX K   XXX          xu         m
S- pply/distrihbttim                         x    =aaaaaac  xcuoaao I000aaaa0i aaaaaaaa
lOW   Tadmical Adviser                                            DOO    IUKXM
Felabusipeaaaa   aaa  a
Sbud  Tours                                  2001300  xtOOOIaaaaaa  a oO
Twtraig AdvIser                              loac     maaaaXGEaaa = 
HIS EPxrt                                                A RoM  Xm         maxc   = Qcx
Vehiclies                                         rn  I
ReLa F       vell                                       _xxxmm
WO*dmus                                  maC rn mDC                                   ICcC
Tadmtcal AEsistaxma                      x      t                m         IDC        mmt
rollemnt 
Policy StuHli
lot Study                                      mmr
2KI St*                                                  matK
Tediicgs  A SlStxx mmm mac



-71-
AIM= 3
Pqp 2 of 3 pope
lawsmutat1io Sduek&tl C1 Wbdw
Projectgt                  Yearl          Year I       Ye 12          Year 3        Yew 4
Uppaum/               . X   AAA          )m
RelvabItatiAm 2of   I     Bo on oI OMX - BP              m         :
30 busath chtr
Qr.
3                                     iAA OC  CZ   X   R WF     1x:
8 Regkmor
Mzwrdstrative       I           XAA BB M  1f E         P If 1F
B-
S,.
Byuma                           AAis  n2   Az   BEF FlllD PI      PC
Yabba                                        AA    11 3E EWP               IF PC
X-      Eooig of ar£ dtects
A  A Slte apsition
B - Prearaton of d e1
C - Pparatl  of ame         (site }layts)
D  Preparon of 'xkiz  dr.dnt  an tid dommuts
E -t'1i  few bids and omtract ewrd
F Q uCtton
G - aliw   of fundtuze and eqipment; 8stat of operation



-72-
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3 pages
INAUM: PhFAMILY DM1 Pi OnoT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year           Disbureement     Cumulated      Cumulated     Undisbursed
Semester            Per Semmater       Amount        Percentage      Balance
FY 86 aJ
June 30, 1986            0.0              0.0            0.0            10.8
FY 87 b/
December 31, 1986        0.3              0.3            3.0            10.5
June 30, 1987            0.3              0.6            6.0            10.2
FY 88
December 31, 1987        1.0               1.6          15.0             9.2
June 30, 1988            1.0              2.6           24.0             8.2
FY 89
December 31, 1988        1.4              4.0           37.0             6.8
June 30, 1989            1.4              5.4           50.0             5.4
FY 90
December 31, 1989        1.6              7.0           65.0             3.8
June 30, 1990            1.3              8.3           77.0             2.5
Fe 91
December 31, 1990        1.1              9.4           87.0             1.4
June 30, 1991            0.8             10.2           94.0             0.6
FY 92
December 31, 1991 C/    0.3              10.5           97.0             0.3
June 30, 1992 dt         0.3             10.8          100.0              -
a/ Expected date of effectiveness; July 1, 1986
T/ Includes disbursement from PPP advance
F Expected date of project completion
#, Expected closing date



-73-
ANNEX 4
1U1MM: IMKY sMIL pioncT
PROP rDom    rOIN  PL     sIU
Study 1
FACTORS INFLUENCING THE ACCEPTANCE AND CONTINUATION OF ORAL
CONTRACEPTIVES, INJECTAILS, IUDS AND OTHER METHODS AT THE HEALTH CENTER
AND COQIMIINITY LEML.
Objectives.  To identify the characteristics of contraceptive acceptors and
to ascertain w 'sOa post-acceptance experience. A follow-up study will
interview sample sf women to determine why they continue on dropping out
of the program.
Contents. Particular attention will focus on how long women continue using
specific methods, why they drop out of the program, what factors are
associated with high or low continuation rates, including men behavior
towards FP, and what can be done to improve service delivery so that
acceptance increases and communication is high.
Methodology. The service statistics in selected health centers will be
used to select the sample of contraceptive acceptors, dropouts and
continuers. Individual interviews with program participants will be
conducted to acquire detailed Information on the  ictors associated with
acceptance, continuation and dropping out.
Executing Agency. ONAPO and public health researchers in selected reglons.
Study 2
EARLY C*lLDEOOD AND MATERNAL HEALTH STUDY
ObJectives. The study would analyze the maternal and child
mortality/morbidity patterns and determinants.
Content. The study would include data on very early infant deaths
(neo-natal mortality), under-five mortality and morbidity and maternal
mortality. The study would also include data on birth intervals,
contraceptive use, breastfeeding and other socio-economic parameters having
impact on child survival.
Methodology. The study would use a retrospective questionnaire applied on
a national stratified sample to be defined during a preparation phase. The
final study design will be prepared by ONAPO and reviewed by the Bank.



-74-
ANNEX S
Page 1 of 2 pages
UJAD:  FAMILY  UM    PROJECT
NUTRITION CENTERS PERFORNANCE
A well documented thesis on the impact of the nutrition centers
activities found that their long-term impact on the nutritional status of
the community was nil or minimal.l/ The project preparation team which
included members from the Nutrition Bureau tried to identify, with the
support of a nutrition eipert financed through the PPF, the main reasons
for this poor performance. One of the major constraints identified was the
lack of program targeting towards high risk groups. As shown in the table
below, the population enrolled in the nutrition center has the same
nutrition profile as the general population (67% well nourished, 33%
malnourished).
Population     %     Enrolled      %     2 of
0.30 month           Children            Population
of age                                   Reached
Good nutritional  425,000         67      92,000       67      22
status
Malnutrition      213,000         33      45,000       33      21
TOTAL          638,000        100     137,000      100      43
These figures imply that most nutrition centers do not try to
recruit high risk families, i.e. families with already malnourished
children or very poor families. Most of the mothers who attend the
nutrition sessions are more interested in the almost free distribution of
imported foods than in educational talks. These foods are most often not
given to malnourished children but distributed among family members or sold
at the market. Due to the absence of strict enrollment criteria, i.e.
malnourished children or poor familles, the nutrition center staff are
presently spending much of their time taking care of well nourished
children.
7  ibonyumuvunyi Viateur.  Evaluation de llimpact des centres
nutritionnels au Rwanda; These, Universit* de Moncton, 1981. The
author found that when a woman and her child are enrolled in the
program, there Is no improvement In the feeding practices for the next
child or the other children of the family and that the food production
of the family is not better, qualitatively or quantitatively.



-7S-
AMNN 5
Page 2 of 2 pages
)0BSA has developed a strategy to Improve the performance of the
nutrition centers. This strategy-includes: (11) the integration of
nutrition activities within the MCH program in order to establish a better
screening for prograa entry and the focalization of activities tmrards high
risk families; (li) the development of a better referral system between
nutrition and health centers; and (iii) the Introduction of a new weaning
food developed during project preparation (se Annex 6).



-76-
ANNEX 6
lawN Waaning Food
During project preparation, the Nutrition Bureau and the Central
Nutrition Training Center developed a new weaning mixture based on local
products. Its composition and costs are given in the table below:
weight     KOalories       XCl          Cost
(in grams)                   lipids    (RF, 1985)
Fermented Millet       700           2410          200           32
Soybean                200            800          320           10
peanuts                 100           600          450           10
TOTAL                 low            Ty                          52 RF
Note:  iMllet and soybean are produced natLonwide In most farms. Peanuts
are produced In the eastern part of the country but are widely available on
the local markets.
The ferumuted willet allows a reduction of the volume (from 400.l
to 200.l) of the meal for the saw caloric amount given by non-fermented
sorghum. The lipids provide 25X of calories, which is the recommended
amount for a weaLnig food, particularly In Rwanda where the usual diet is
poor In fat. The new recipe and Its acceptance by oothers and children
will have to be tested. UNICEF has already exprsesed its interest and
willingness to contribute to the experiment.



-77-
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2 pages
ltANIA  FAMILY OLU  PWJNC
SELECTED DOCiMNTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJE   FILE
A. Sector
1.  World Bank, BRanda Population. Health and Nutrition &ector Review
(Report No. 4926-4W), August 21, 1984
2. World Bank, Third Education Pro=ect, Staff Appraisal Report, July 8,
1985
3.  World Bank, ivanda Country Prograa Paver, July 1985
4. Government of Rwanda, Ministry of Health, Annual Reports, various
years
5.  Government of Rwvnda, Office National de la Population, ADni-1
Reports, various years
6.  Government of Rwanda, Engufte Nationale our la Flcondit6, December
1984
7.  Laurent A., Health Financin  and Exenditures  Ruanda and Togo, Sandoz
Institute, Third World Series, 1982
8.  Via. B. L. et al. A Nutritional Survey Ln the ReLpulic of Rwanda,
Institut National de Is Recherche Scientifique, Butere, 1975
9.  Mebeus A. et al, Banti et malAies a Rwandsa, A"m  nttratlon Gfn4rale
de la Cooptration du Diveloppement, Bruxell e, 1982
10. Nbonyumuvunyi V., Evaluation de l'u"act des centres nutritionnels au
Rwanda Thise de mattrise prAsent6o A l'Ecole des Sciences donestiques,
Universit6 de Moncton, August 1981
11. Gfrard R., Composante Populatlon BGN II, mission d'Svaluation,
February 1985
12  USAID, oid-term evaluation report of the Family  lannln  Pro,gra in
Rvanda, August 1984



AMNEX 7
Page 2 of 2 pages
B. Pro ect
13. Goveraimut of Ruranda, Projet seats FuUliale, preliminary project
proposal for Ilk financing, April 1985
14. Governmut of wnda, Proet Sntf ladliale, project proposal, July
1985
15. Nalepp G., erchitect's working paper, Appraisal Mission, August 1985
16. Alluan, J., Population conultant's report, Appraisal Missiou, August
1985
17. Government of Rwenda, MNInistry of Health, preliminary draft for Health
Sector of Fourth Develoimt Plp  August 1985



ao 
L"Wtim Of  M;uuidftant1 Of1sax
le Sz*uLc ~ ~  ~    ~     ta "mui
1J L.J  Plaaes T  tatort*S  TIUpCtUNn Of   J*Up6Ct1OR Cf )~*ZWt~it1(~1   SI*tud
,     L2~tt  hrue   Evt II1ce    n'lt0          Oil~sa~
L J  L~~~~~~~~~~~~Sr~
Enwlr3ue:
3~~~~~~~mEwtm
?WtLtr  y l 



-80-
O5ARV T    2
|tZlLtry of Health and Social Affai
I~~~                    r 1
(RAPO
Ad|hnb rative Council
Aminitatinm  ad Finanl              era  Secretarial            Stxies and  rogramaI
Af  3~untLng        Administrat.tce                       Studies, Evablation  Famly Planning and
and Spply                                  R                          P
Fils      Administratioxi           Wliy    Taig and
_  _~~~~t                                Thddrig ndai
e ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~naaL



-lt ~ ~   ~      ~     ~      ~     2 
RWANDA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT                                                        )
PROJET SANTE FAMILIALE                                                       (
POPULA-ION DENSITY
(PERSONS PER KM2)                   SDNLR        
IHA81TANTS PAR KiM4.I         PROPOSED NURSING SCHOOL
0-100             A   PROPOSED HEALTH CENTERS
C:i::z  131- 200         A     TO BE UPGRADED                       ZAIRE
13 21 -20* PROPOSED: REGIONAL
201 - 250               ADI2NISTRATiVE BASES        BRI.O   ALNtPR
SIRuRGA: NATIONAL PARiK
251 - 320                                        P41C A4U0ANA DfOS BRCNG4OA  
OVER 320
\ .4 Ruhengeft
MAIN ROADS
ROUTES PPRJACPAiES I ES
RIVERS                                                            ..
Ft EUVES
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                           .
CAP/rAlF                                       I             -
PREFECTURE CAPITAL                            Gomo           A
CHEF - i/EU Df PREFECTUVRE                                                     -
COMMUNE BOUNDARIES                                     R
i/MIrES DES COMMUNES                          /
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                       /           .                    _
I/MATrES DES PREFCrtURES                   .     ,
NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARIES         /                               .,.. ,
I l/MITES DES PARCS A4rT/ONAUX
_____ INTERNATIONAL 8CUNDARIES                   ;
FROATErFS                                  \ S
Ksbuy.b
J                 ~~/  v@   ?>   
Plecaro p. le  sso-/S doSlasI
t&vw m *ale. cetll carte est
leent de$~ a adr .4&
Bdnrq.e Mn7nn et de lat Sc"fv  |                            t             
W-ft Intenutztff   iK X . J-(   w   4 s etL.$Muhubi                                            /
M-fl!we                        _        /      z gfKN  1  1  /  
wnPk N. de (a'                        \ pad de le  \
s,qXtew UNw l qw ceS                                                        __--a
LAG¢A SNMALIA                         \
TtZARANZANIAt                                           311    t      C
> § ~~~~MOZAMBtOUE                    2 9.''   
_t  ^JAWI_I                                     \                                     J,



IBRD 1945
U G A N D A
/~/                                                 T )                              A/;' D A
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~p
,.   l1.                                                                                              DC            11I 
{  I  \> . ,4 t,4 , v , ,,, I                        J
r--,   <_   t   tt; ,,_     *   t       ,               .   tAKAGERA                            -           -
=,.N   \'" ,   '\ j , '       tATIONAL PARK  
).        "I          -   s.J\      -                                              ,       PA'  A UOA
--It   tz        <          i        I    t                   ~          't'                                    . 
;<   ..          --t jf,;N             
)~~~ t/x>tztI        
_     *vS!                                                                                     Ii                                  41)
-x         Y     bs.7t-     :            I-Sa.w r .a* s-;i tf v ^: 
\ 8 ~~.-.                                                                             -           ti    ................................/................1   ;§;  o.  '  ..1
<,R.XPf>  a     r|v..I  I.t  1A..........t- xe~f  .  
I'--'       ,                                                                               I;" .         # a * .          .,    , . ,,  , .,-,,    .....
\   s¢w}*  /-tzf            I   ¢*   * f  3   ¢1>S 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ee8? I98



