Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4255-RW
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 9.8 MILLION
TO THE
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
March 6, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(November 1985)
Currency Unit = Franc Rwandese (RwF)
US $1.00       =  RwF 110
RwF 100        =  $   .91
(Project data are based on the exchange rate of US$1.00= RwF 99)
(August 1985)
ME,ASURES
1 meter                             3.28 feet
I kilometer                         0.62 mile
I square kilometer         =        0.39 square mile
I hectare                           2.47 acres
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BUFMAR       -  Bureau des Formations 4idicales Agreees du Rwanda
CCCI)        -  Combatting Childhood Communicable Diseases
CRS          -  Catholic Relief Services
CUSP         -  Centre Universitaire de Sante Publique
EDF          -  European Development Fund
E.C          -  European Economic Community
EPI          -  Expanded Program on Immunization
FP           -  Family Planning
HC           -  Health Center
IWC          -  Information, Education and Communication
INTRAH       -  International Training in Health (Chapel Hill University)
IPFF         -  International Planned Parenthood Federation
IUD          -  Intra-Uterine Device
JHPIEGO      -  Johns Hopkins Program for International
Edtucation in Gynecology and ObsteLrics
MCH          -  Maternal and Child Health
MOHSA        -  Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
KINEPRISEC   -  Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education
MINIFINECO   -  Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
NC           -  Nutrition Center
NGO          -  Non-governmental Organization
ONAPO        -  Office National de la Population
OPHAR        -  Office Pharmaceutique du Rwanda
SFCS         -  Service de Financement et de Constructions Scolaires
UNFPA        -  United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICKF       -  United Nations Children's Fund
USAID        -  United States Agency for International Development
WHO          -  WJorld Health Organization
GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA-FISCAL YEAR
Government - January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
(i,
RWMADA: FAHILY HEALTH PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:     Rwandese Republic
Beneficiary:  Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (MORSA), including
National Office of Population (ONAPO); and
Ministry of Education (MINEPRISEC).
Amount:       SDR 9.8 million (US$10.8 million equivalent)
Terms:        Standard IDA terms.
Project Description:
(i)  Objectives: (a) make family planning (FP) services available
in all health facilitieg as part of the maternal and child
health (MCH) program; (b) improve the quality and increase
the coverage of MCH services; (c) target and integrate
nutrition activities into NCR services: (d) strengthen the
institutional capacity of MOHSA at the central and regional
levels; (e) increase the output and improve the quality of
basic paramedical training programs; and (f) improve ONAPO' s
data base for population policy formulation.
Cii)   Components: The project would provide for: (a) strengthening
of Family Health Services through support to restructuring
the MCH program, including the addition of an FP component
nationwide,  provision  of essential medical  supplies  and
upgrading/reequipping  of  30  Health  Centers  (HCs);  (b)
institutional strengthening of MOHSA at the central and
regional levels; (e) assistance to staff development through
in-service MCH/PP/Nutrition training for 1400 HC staff, with
particular emphasis on 200 nurses aides and construction of
two new nursing schools; (d) financing of two studies
intended to lead to the strengthening of population policy;
and (e) project management services.
(iii)   Benefits and Risks: MOHSA will be considerably strengthened
in terms of more and better qualified staff as well
as the improvement of its infrastructure, particularly
locally.  The main beneficiaries as a result would be the
most vulnerable population groups - fertile women, and
children under five. The introduction of a new weaning food
is a specific benefit.   The major risk is MOHSA's limited
administrative capacity, which this project seeks to help
overcome.
Ths document ha  restitd distbution and may be used by reipients only in fte perfomnae
of ther ocial duties Its contents may not otberwis be dicosed without World Bak autbhozto.



(ti)
Local     Foreign    Total
Estimated Project Costs:                                US$ thousand
I. Strengthening Family Health Services:    1,559        2,099     3,658
II. Institutional Strengthening                 916       2,268     3,184
III. Human  Resource Development                2,066      1,211     3,277
IV. Population Policy Studies                    113        119       232
V. Project Management                           368        555       923
VI. Refunding of PPF                             176        264       440
Total Base Cost                         5,199       6,517    11,715
Contingencies
Physical                                79         114       193
Price                                1,292       1,251     2,543
Total Project Cost                        6,569       7,882    14,451
(net of taxes and duties)
Project Financing Plan                         Local      Foreign   Total
- US$ thousand
Proposed IDA Credit                             3,740      7.063    10,803
World Health Organization                                    725       725
Government:
Recurrent Budget                            2,829                 2,829
Development Budget                                         93        93
6,569      7,882    14,451
Estimated Disbursements      FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92
(US$ million)
Annual                     0.6     2.0     2.8      2.9     1.9     0.6
Cumulative                 0.6     2.6     5.4      8.3    10.2    10.8
Economic Rate of Return:   N/A
Appraisal Report: No.6024-RW of March 6, 1986
Map: IBRD 19455



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
1.           I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Rwandese Republic in a total amount of SDR 9.8
million (US$10.8 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to finance a family
health project. The Project will be co-financed by the World Health Organiza-
tion on a grant basis in the amount of US$725,000 equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4059-RW) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on May 20, 1983 which discussed economic develp-
ments in Rwanda until that date.   An economic mission visited Rwanda in
September  1985.   Its  report  is under  preparation.    Its  findings  are
incorporated below. Country data are provided in Annex I.
3.        Rwanda's salient characteristics include its small size, an annual
population growth rate of 3.7 percent (ranking among the highest in Africa), a
population density (in terms of agricultural land) of about 500 per square km
(ranking among the highest in the world), hilly terrain and high average
altitude, a landlocked position, lack of natural resources (including a
serious shortage of arable land), underdeveloped physical and institutional
infrastructure, and a very low level of development as measured by a variety
of social as well as economic indicators.  These indicators include a per
capita income of about US$270 (1983), among the lowest in the world; an
average life expectancy of 47 years; and an adult literacy rate of 37 percent.
4.         The country is heavily dependent on agricultural exports (coffee,
tea, pyrethrum, cinchona), which provide 75 percent of its foreign exchange
earnings.  Rwanda' s manufacturing base is narrow, and the growth of modern
manufacturing is limited by the small size of the market and the lack of raw
materials,  marketing  facilities,  entrepreneurial  skills,  and  skilled
manpower. The country, consequently, imports capital goods, steel, petroleum
products, cement and other construction materials, and virtually every modern
consumer product.  Its merchandise trade is hampered by high transportation
costs and dependence on neighboring countries for access to the sea ports of
Mombasa and Dar-es-Salaam.
5.           Despite these constraints, Rwanda has made a creditable effort
toward economic and social development.   During the 1976-80 period, the
country managed to satisfy its subsistence needs and to make Important
advances not only in agriculture but in other fields such as education,
health, water supply, and small-scale industry.   It succeeded in building



basic transport and communication infrastructure, and set in place a state
administrative  apparatus  serious  about  development.    These  dchievements
reflect the Government's commitment to economic and social progress, as well
as its prudent fiscal, balance of payments ard debt management policies. At
the same time, Rwanda has been able to attract substantial volumes of external
aid from a great diversity of sources, confirming donor perceptions that
Government  is  indeed  development-oriented  and  is  pursuing  generally
appropriate objectives.   The Government's efforts during this period were
significantly helped by favorable weather conditions and the coffee boom of
the late 1970's.
6.         Achievement and good fortune notwithstanding, development efforts
in Rwanda have not alleviated the fundamental problems which cortinue to
compromise development prospects:   population growth, increasingly at odds
with land availability,  an undiversified economic structure, Government's
limited capacity to provide social services, and the economy's inability to
generate jobs either outside or within the rural sector.   Though foodcrop
output has, at least, kept pace with populai'on growth, it has apparently done
so at a cost to the land's long-term fertil'ty.   Agricultural land use in
Rwanda has reached a point where there is little fallow or grazing area left.
The rapidly growing population has resulted in serious deforestation,
accompanying erosion, and has required the cultivation of marginal lands with
a  fragile  ecology.    Concomitant wl.ch  these  adverse  trends  has  been a
deterioration of nutritional stan"lards induced by the shift to traditional
high-yield, high-calorie, but low-protein crops.   The limited success of
Government's efforts has been largely due to the country's structural
constraints (among them the critical population problem), institutional
weaknesses (stemming largely from a shortage of skilled personnel), and
insufficiency of domestic financial resources. At the same time, the shortage
of skilled personnel,  fragmentation of institutional responsibilities, and
poor interagency coordination have limited the country's capacity to absorb
external resources.
7.             The Rwandese authorities have taken steps to address these
problems.   Of particular importance have been actions concerned with the
extremely rapid population growth, and the lack of education and training.
The project presented in this Report is our first full-scale effort to assist
the Government to respond to its pressing population realities.  To address
the problem of lack of education and training, the Government introduced an
education  reform  in  1979 which  -   after  subsequent  adjustment  -  was
responsive to the country's needs, but whose implementation has been hampered
by financial constraints and the lack of teachers.
8.         A quantitative assessment of Rwanda's recent economic performance
can only be tentative, as the national account statistics have serious
shortcomings.    These estimates  suggest that,  compared to the period of
1978-1980, during which the GDP grew by about 6 percent annually, economic
growth in Rwanda slowed down during 1983-1984 -- GDP grew on average by about
1 percent p.a. - mainly on account of a downswing in tertiary sector
activities.   Balance of payments and budgetary constraints impinged heavily
upon trade and transport activities whose rapid growth in the past had been
facilitated by greatly enlarged availabilities of foreign exchange and
budgetary  revenues.    Budgetary  austerity measures  introduced  since  1983



-3-
resulted in stagnation of Government's expenditures in real terms during 1983
and 1984. Notwithstanding this domestic recession, the manufacturing sector
expanded its productive c*acity and improved its capacity utilization due, in
part, to the import restrictions which limited foreign competition. Mining
continued the decline that started in 1980 due to persistent financial and
management problems of the major mixed-ownership company (SOMIRWA), which has
been recently declared bankrupt and ceased its operations.  In agriculture,
the sluggish performance of food crop production due to drought has been
partially offset by the rise in production of export crops. Preliminary data
suggest that 1985 witnessed moderate growth after the economic slump of the
preceding 3 years.   This renewed growth occurred mainly on account of an
increase in agricultural production and despite a precipitous decline in the
price of tea and the virtual cessation of all mining activities.
9.        Rwanda's external position came under strong pressure, as the volume
of imports continued to expand at a time when export earnings were declining.
Since 1981, the total value of exports has been consistently below their
1977-80 levels, reflecting the decline in world coffee prices rather than a
shortfall in export volume.   The terms of trade deteriorated by about 24
percent between 1979 and 1984. In an attempt to arrest the deterioration of
the balance of payments, the Government adoptVed - beginning in 1983 - what
they expected would be temporary measures, including licensing, prior deposit
requirements and increased import tariffs. The restrictions aimed mainly at
curtailing imports of non-essential consumption goods as well as those of
locally produced commodities. The Rwandese authorities also shifted the peg
of the Rwandese franc (in September 1983) from the US dollar to the SDR,
entailing a 5.2 percent depreciation vis-a-vis the US dollar. These measures,
coupled with some improvement in the terms of trade in 1984 and 1985 (with
respect to the 1981-1983 period) helped to reduce the current acco-unt deficit
to about 9 percent of GDP both in 1984 and in 1985 as compared to 12 and 11
percent, respectively, in 1982 and 1983.
10.       On the budgetary side, the authorities did not realize that the high
level of tax revenues recorded in 1979 and 1980 was a temporary phenomenon not
justifying a permanent increase in expenditures.   As a result, the sharp
decline in revenues from coffee export taxes beginning in 1981, together with
increases in current outlays (in order to achieve the social objectives of the
Plan), resulted in an overall budgetary deficit equivalent to about 2 percent
of GDP in both 1982 and 1983 (as compared to a surplus of 0.9 percent in
1980.)   Concern over the worsening budgetary situation led Government to
introduce  corrective  fiscal  measures.    In  1984,  the  growth  of  current
expenditures (in nominal terms) was limited to 2.3 percent.   The growth of
public sector employment was held under 0.5 percent - the education sector'
was exempted in order to achieve the revised targets of the 1979 Education
Reform.   This represented a major break from Government's past policy of
practically "guaranteeing employment to every secondary-school graduate.
Large reductions were also decided in net transfers to parastatals. Thanks to
the austerity measures and increased revenues from taxes on international
trade both in 1984 and 1985, the Government has been successful in reducing
the budgetary deficit to about 1 percent of GDP. The Government is likely to
face an even more favorable budgetary situation in 1986 because of an
anticipated increase in coffee prices and the introduction of a new sales tax.



-4-
11.        Government has been traditionally conservative in its monetary and
credit policies.   Inflat :onary pressures have arisen mainly  from supply
shortages caused by frequent disruptions of supply routes through neighboring
countries, bigh international transport costs, and increased prices of imports
and seasonal fluctuations in the price of domestic foodstuffs.   Inflation
averaged 10.6 percent per annum during 1977-82, it peaked at 12.6 percent in
1982, reflecting mainly the substantial increases in electricity and water
tariffs and educational fees. In 1983 and 1984 inflation was down to 6.6 and
5.4 percent,  respectively.   In  1985,  inflation appears  to have further
declined to about 4 percent.
12.       Rwanda has been one of the most favored beneficiaries of foreign aid
in recent years.   Per capita disbursements of net official  development
assistance (ODA) have been above US$30, much larger than the average for
Africa. During the period 1981-84, grants comprised about 80 percent of total
external aid flows, and were provided mainly by Belgium, the Federal Republic
of Germany, and France. In view of its level of development, Rwanda will need
external assistance for a long time to come.  While the anticipated coffee
price increases for the next two years may provide temporary balance-of-
payments relief, this is unlikely to continue beyond 1987.   To help the
Rwandese to implement their economic growth program (Programme de Relance),
foreign assistance would have to continue at least at the current level, given
population growth and export constraints.
13.        Rwanda's medium- and long-term external public debt is relatively
small, estimated at US$304 million at end-1985, equivalent to about 16 percent
of GDP. Most of Rwanda's external debt was contracted on highly concessionary
terms; the grant element was over 70 percent on average during the 1972-84
period.  Due to the concessionary nature of these loans, the debt service
payments on mediumr and long-term debt are relatively low: about 8 percent of
exports of goods and nonfactor services in 1985. Hence, there remains scope
for further borrowing.   However, given the poverty of the  country, its
overwhelming constraints and vulnerability, and its long-term unfavorable
terms of trade prospects, external funds should continue to be provided in the
form of grants or loans at highly concessionary terms, and include a high
proportion of local cost financing and non-project assistance.
PART II - THE BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE
14.        Bank Group assistance to Rwanda started in 1970, and was initially
focused on the improvement of the road network and the strengthening of
agricultural  production.    As  of January  20,  1986,  Rwanda  has  received
twenty-six IDA credits totalling US$267.2 million: eight for agriculture (34
percent); six  for roads (30 percent); four for DFC's (10 percent); two for
power (9 percent); two for education (6 percent); one for water supply (5
percent); two for technical assistance (4 percent); and one for telecomr
munications (3 percent).   In addition, Rwanda has also received a Special
African Facility Credit of US$15.0 million for the Sixth Highway project.
There have been no Bank loans. Three IFC investments (one of US$535,000 for a
tea factory; a second of US$226,000 with contingent equity commitment of up to
US$60,000 to expand the tea factory; a third of US$249,000 also to expand the



-5-
tea factory) were signed in 1976, 1980 and 1985, respectively.   Annex II
contains a summary statement of IDA credits and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1985.
15.        In fiscal years 1982-84, disbursements for Rwanda totalled US$49.1
million,  compared  to  new  commitments  of US$86.2  million.    The  annual
disbursement rate increased steadily over this period, to reach about 25
percent in FY85 which is above the average for countries of the Eastern and
Southern Africa Region. There are no problem projects in Rwanda.
16.        The Bank Group lending has been based on a country strategy which
has emphasized:   (i) agriculture and rural development, the main objective
being to increase food production as well as export crops, while maintaining
soil fertility; (ii) human resources development, focusing on support to basic
education and skills training to improve agricultural productivity, provide
skilled manpower, and influence attitudes on the population issue, and, more
recently,  on  family  planning  programs  per  se;  (i.i)  infrastructure
development, particularly roads, to reduce the country's isolation and to
provide incentives to further intensification of agriculture as well as
increased specialization and diversification through better marketing; (iv)
energy, to lessen the country's demand for fuel imports; and (v) development
of small and medium-size enterprises in manufacturing and other sectors.
17.       One of the major constraints to Rwanda's development is the shortage
of administrative and technical/managerial capacity.   his affects all sectors
and inhibits project preparation and implementation. Institutional and human
resource development through intensive technical assistance and on-the-job
training of Rwandese staff have, therefore, been a salient feature of the Bank
Group program for Rwanda, both under individual projects in various sectors,
and through free-standing technical assistance projects (a second Credit
1565-RW became effective January 10,  1986).   These projects have helped
strengthen inter-ministerial coordination, provided t-aining to staff in the
studies units of concerned agencies, and contributed to improve the
preparation of the next five-year plan.
18.          The Bank Group program has been pursued in a climate of good
relations with the Government. In all sectors in which we are active, there
exists a general receptivity to our advice and willingness to take action
where required.  In agriculture, improved sector management as well as more
rigorous project planning and financial controls have been attained, with a
shift away from integrated rural development schemes towards more directly
productive projects.   In the highway sector, our active dialogue with the
Ministry of Public Works and Energy is now focusing on the ways to reduce
reliance upon expatriate expertise. In industrial development, we have gained
Government's commitment to promote small-scale enterprises. In the education
sector, we had difficulties due to two misprocurements (some six years ago)
and an overly ambitious education reform proposal at the primary level.
However, a positive dialogue with the Ministry of Primary and Secondary
Education (MINIPRISEC) has emerged in the past three years; the Ministry has
since adopted a less costly and lengthy primary cycle.  On population, our
initially cautious approach to Government has developed into cooperative
efforts to promote suitable family health and planning programs.



- 6 -
19.         The Bank Group strategy continues to center on the five sectors
mentioned above (para. 16), with special emphasis on agriculture and
population. For the former, we give priority to: (i) promote intensification
by developing and strengthening Rwanda's agricultural research and extension
capabilities; and (ii) reinforce the key sector institutions - the Rwandese
Research Institute and the Ministry of Agriculture. In the population sector,
our program and proposals are described below.
20.             Finally,  our dialogue with the Government has also had a
macroeconomic  dimension.    Rwandese  authorities  have  recently  indicated
readiness to proceed with the preparation of an economic recovery program
("Programme de Relance"), and asked the Bank's assistance in its formulation.
A Bank economic mission recently visited Rwanda in response to this request.
The mission's work, which extended in particular over agriculture and mining
sectors and public enterprises, will help further strengthen the cooperation
between Rwanda and the Bank at the macroeconomic level.
PART III. POPULATION AND HEALTH SECTOR
Introduction
Population, Health and Nutrition Status
21.       With a population density of about 230 people per km2, Rwanda is the
most densely populated country in Africa. The 1985 population is estimated at
6 million. The total fertility rate (8.4) and the population growth rate (3.7
percent p.a.) are among the highest in the world.   Thus, major population
growth is inevitable for Rwanda. Under the most optimistic assumptions (rapid
fertility decline and emigration of about half a million people), the
population will double by 2015.  Under the worst (with the current rate of
population growth prevailing and no emigration), it will more than triple and
reach 22.3 million. Moreover, growth rates will remain high enough at the end
of the project period to permit a further doubling of the population within
the following 20 to 25 years. Rwanda's agricultural performance over the past
decade has been sufficient to allow local food production to keep pace with
population growth. Sustaining this performance will prove harder in future,
however, because the intensification of cultivation has led to deforestation,
erosion and a decrease in soil productivity. As land reserves vanish, it will
be a difficult challenge for Rwanda to develop and apply, within 30 years'
time, agricultural technology and methods adequate to support the projected
800 people per km2 of agricultural land. The effect of population growth on
consumption needs will be most strongly felt in the area of food
availability.   Population growth will also increase the demand for jobs,
housing, water, electricity,  schooling and health care.   This increasing
pressure on the country's social and economic systems makes the need for
large-scale efforts to reduce fertility more urgent.
22.         As in most sub-Saharan African countries, health conditions are
poor. Life expectancy is about 47 years, and the infant mortality rate is at
115-125 per 1000. About 25 percent of the children die before age 5. Mothers
and young children account for the bulk of Rwanda's morbidity and mortality.
The leading causes of death among children are malaria, diarrheal diseases and
measles; for women in reproductive age, most of the deaths are related to



pregnancies.   Many of these deaths can be prevented with an effective
MCH/FP/Nutrition program.  Several nutrition studies found about one third
of Rwandese children to be suffering from some degree of protein-calorie
malnutrition. There are considerable differences in nutritional status
among sub-groups of the population and among regions. The network of 167
locally-financed nutrition centers (NCs), many of which are operated by
religious  organizations,   represents  Rwanda' s  main  intervention  for
nutriti=n.
Sector Development Objectives and Organization: Population
23.           Realizing the extent and the detrimental effect of rapid
population growth on the country, the Government of Rwanda's policy on
population evolved from analysis of the demographic situation to
development of specific objectives and action programs.  This evolution led
to the creation, in 1981, of a parastatal agency under the umbrella of
Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (MOHSA) and the formulation of the
Third Five-Year Plan (1982-1986), reflecting the Government's policy on
population.   The policy is to 'st oilize demographic growth at 3.7% per
year and  to  put  in  place  the  conditions  necessary  for  the  eventual
reduction in growth, which is indispensable." Measures envisaged to meet
this objective are to raise the legal minimum age of marriage; provide
family planning services; carry out socio-economic studies, and organize
motivational campaigns on family  planning.    ONAPO's  mandate, in  this
process, is to carry out educational and informational programs, research
and evaluation, and staff training.   While ONAPO is the lead agency in
planning and coordinating the program, FP services are delivered by MOI!SA
staff in Government health facilities.   That is, ONAPO does not intend to
operate a separate service delivery network.   Government support of the
population program and ONAPO's effective approach are the major strengths
within this sector. Nevertheless, the Government is still cautious about
setting up specific targets for reducing fertility in this heavily Catholic
country. The Catholic Church is aware of the population problem, however,
and promotes natural FP methods.
24.          In September 1982, ONAPO organized a national colloquium on
"Family, Population and Development," which was attended by about 200
persons including deputies, community leaders, civil servants, physicians,
religious leaders  and other influential people.   Having been favorably
received and widely publicized, it represented a breakthrough in public
awareness of the issues.   IEC (Information, Education and Communication)
pregrams are now being targetted at several ministries and groups
specifically concerned with development.   These multi-sectoral activities
are funded by USAID and other donors.   In addition, numerous population
education seminars have been held with key administrative officials
(sous-prgfets, bourgmestres and chefs de service) throughout the country
since 1983. Most Government officials and politically active citizens are
now clearly aware of the Government decision to deal effectively with the
population problem. Since January 1983, ONAPO has also used the radio for
disseminating FP messages.  Radio is Rwanda's most important mass medium
and reaches at least 80% of homes.  ONAPO has produced a popular weekly
15-minute radio program about the impact of rapid population growth and
large family size.At present, the equipment and expertise of the ONAPO
radio team are limited, but a USAID project will provide adequate funds to



-8-
meet its needs. Information activities using other media are still at an
early stage: a few newspaper articles and brochures have been published,
and a film and a play have been prepared. At the community level, ONAPO
strategy is to sensitize local officials and community workers at the
prefecture level through three-day seminars conducted by ONAPO staff.
Local officials and community workers then conduct shorter informational
sessions for the general public. These gatherings are proving an effective
way of promoting the subject of fertility reduction because they are easy
to organize, take place in an informal setting, and include men and women
of all ages. The participation of local political leaders adds credibility
and underlines Government support for the population program.
25.        Since the late 1960s, FP services have been available in Rwanda
on a limited scale as part of gynecological services at the Government
central and prefectoral hospitals. Presently, FP services are provided in
only one third of peripheral health facilities. Whereas public hospitals
recruit more acceptors than private hospitals, private health centers (HCs)
(Protestant and Catholic) recruit more acceptors than public HCs. Various
contraceptive methods are available.  Sterilization and abortion are not
offered as part of the FP program, but are permitted for medical reasons
only. According to the 1983 National Fertility Survey (NFS), contraceptive
prevalence for modern methods was estimated at 0.9 percent of women ages
15-45 years who were in union, not pregnant and fertile. Traditional or
nnatural' methods were used by 10.1 percent of women but with no measurable
positive effect.   Contraceptive methods mix was as follows: injectables
45%, oral contraceptives 44%, IUDs 8% and barriers (mostly condoms) 3%.
Data from the 1983 NFS suggest that a substantial demand for contraceptive
services already exists in Rwanda. Of the women ages 15-49 years in the
sample, 31% (representing 223,200 women in the country) said they intended
to use contraception in the future. An additional 20% of the women of the
same age group (representing 144,000 women) did not want an additional
child.   Thus, the unmet demand for FP services was much greater than
service delivery capacity in 1983 and has probably now increased even
further.  Consequently, it is now important to find ways of meeting the
current and increasing demand for FP services.   Improving the MOHSA FP
service delivery system is the best way of doing this.  MOHSA and ONAPO
have already approved, in December 1984, a document describing the division
of tasks between the two institutions. A high-level 3eminar held in May
1985 brought together MOHSA's central staff, regional health and hospital
directors, and ONAPO representatives to expand and further develop the
strategy to extend FP services nationwide.
Health and Nutrition Programs
26.       The Government health policy and strategy for the Third Five-Year
Plan (1982-86) is sound, giving priority to the main elements of primary
health care as defined by WHO, and include: (i) reorganization of MORSA,
based on the implementation requirements of a policy of -Sant& pour les
masses"; (ii) development of the health infrastructure by providing at
least one HC per commune (there are 143 communes in Rwanda) and two rural
hospitals in each of the ten prefectures; (iii) an increase in hospital
beds to keep up with popul:ition growth; and (iv) staff development by
strengthening present and planned facilities. To implement these general



- 9 -
goals, MORSA, with the support of WHO, held a workshop in May 1983 to
formulate a specific health plan. Priority was given to improving existing
facilities (rather than building new ones), to converting dispensaries into
HCs and to expanding nationwide the Expanded Program on Immunization
(EPI).   MOHSA is presently preparing its Fourth Development Plan.   The
preliminary draft reflects serious efforts to enhance quality of care and
to develop priority service programs that go beyond numerical targets for
buildings and personnel. The proposed Bank supported family health project
would be the major investment in the sector and would constitute support to
the core of the integrated national MCK/FP/Nutrition program.
27.        MOHSA has recently been reorganized.  The former Ministry (now
Department) of Social Affairs has become part of the Ministry of Health.
ONAPO is under the umbrella of MOHSA but retains its essential character as
a parastatal. MOHSA itself comprises three Departments: General Services,
Public Health, and Social Affairs, all under the Secretary General. Three
much-needed technical divisions have been created recently: one for MCH, a
second for Studies and Evaluation, and a third for Training. The Studies
and Evaluation Division is responsible for statistics, documentation,
studies and project monitoring.   The Training Division is in charge of
organizing a systematic in-service training program and developing
curricula for auxiliary staff. The MCH Division is setting up standards
and procedures for priority programs (immunizations, nutrition activities,
prenatal care, etc.); and its FP and Nutrition Bureaux are responsible for
the development of family planning and nutrition activities in health
facilities. Decentralization of health services management to the regional
level has been initiated, although the extent of decentralization in the
different health regions is quite uneven.  Formally, the regional health
directors have full control over personnel and services in their regions,
and their administrative and financial authority could allow them to
effectively run health services and to adapt them to local needs.   In
practice, however, most regional directors are constrained by the limited
facilities and staff available to them, and also need more tecbnical
guidance and logistical support from the central level, particularly in the
key areas of in-service training and program monitoring.
28.           The network of hospitals, HCs, and dispensaries is evenly
distributed throughout the country and health coverage is high by African
standards.   About 60% of Rwandats health facilities are operated by the
MOHSA, with the remainder belonging to the missions.   Operation of each
facility is the subject of a legal agreement between the Government and the
sponsoring church.   Government policies on health services apply to the
missions, and their facilities are supervised by MOHSA regional directors.
MOHSA pays 80% of the salaries of Rwandese staff working in the missions
and approves the mission fee schedules. The missions have a coordinating
body called, -Bureau des Formations Medicales Agreees du Rwanda (BUFMAR).-
It represents the missions in negotiations with MOHSA and provides services
for its members, including drug supply, maintenance of equipment and
production of educational materials.   There is a need to upgrade health
facilities in selected locations, but a wide-scale expansion of the service
network  is not  presently  required.    MOHSA  completed,  during project
preparation, a systematic assessment of selected health facilities,
geographical accessibility and utilization patterns.   Staffing of HCs is
inadequate to serve the heavy load of outpatients.   The shortage is
particularly acute for enrolled nurses and nurses aides.



-10 -
29.            General out-patient services in hospitals and peripheral
facilities are heavily utilized, and out-patient facilities are almost
invariably crowded.    The level of utilization  of in-patient services
varies, depending on their ',pe and location.   The average bed occupancy
rate for hospitals is 70X, which is relatively high. The occupancy rate
for HC beds is 30X, which is typical for this type of facility.   Some
hospitals and wards have occupancy rates over 100%.  This suggests that
future planning of capital investments should be based on a careful
analysis of each facility's needs.  MCEH services are provided in lCs and
hospitals. The Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) has been underway
since 1980 with financing from WHO, UNICEF and USAID and is managed by a
Rwandese national. The program is implemented in all of Rwanda's hospitals
and HCs. Coverage of children is presently approaching 50%, a respectable
achievement as shown by the decrease in incidence of measles and
pertussis.   A new program, Combatting Children's Communicable Diseases
(CCCD), financed by the same donors, has been launched to complement the
EPI. It is presently imple.mented in three pilot zones and will be expanded
nationwide within five years.   Prenatal care is provided for 80% of
pregnant women, but the average of two visits per woman is insufficient for
the proper monitoring of a pregnancy. Most women deliver at home. It is
estimated that only 10Z of all deliveries take place in health facilities.
Postnatal care is almost non-existent and theare is no promotion of FP
during this particularly receptive period. A national program is needed to
establish standards, procedures, and skill requirements for delivery of MCH
services.
30.          The Nutrition Center (NC) network is the cornerstone of the
national nutrition effort. The 167 centers are distributed throughout the
country, close to HCs, averaging one center for every 35,000 persons.
Their operation is financed by beneficiary families (who pay a monthly
fee), the communes (which are responsible for staff salaries) and external
donors (who mostly finance food and equipment). The Governmwent undertakes
planning and supervision by MOHSA's Nutrition Bureau, and staff training is
provided through the National Training Center at Ruhengeri.   About two-
thirds of the NCs are privately operated, mostly by the missions.   The
Catholic Relief Services (CRS) provide food for about 95 centers.
Utilization of NCs by the public is high, on average a center serves 500
mothers per month. Major activities include growth monitoring of children,
nutrition rehabilitation of malnourished children, educational talks on
weaning practices, development of family gardens, and food distribution.
The present Government policy is to integrate the NC activities with the HC
MCH activities, i.e., no new NCs will be built. Some space will be devoted
to nutrition activities in new or upgraded HCs.  Due to the absence of
strict enrollment criteria, such as malnourished children or poor families,
the NC staff are presently spending much of their time taking care of
well-nourished children. The weaning mixtures presently suggested to the
parents are also inappropriate.
31.       Drugs come from four main sources:  the G3vernment pharmaceutical
office (OPHAR), the mission-operated office (BUFMAR), private commercial
pharmacies and bilateral aid. In recent years, OPHAR has been increasingly
less able to meet the needs of the health system and coimercial pharmacies
have steadily increased their role.  In 1984, OPHAR purchased only 25% of
drugs available in Rwanda.   An essential drugs list of 286 items was



- 11 -
established in 1980, but only applies to the Government health system,
since BUFMAR and the commercial pharmacies import freely. Also, there is
no control over direct donations of drugs to the facilities supported by
missions, and over French and Belgian assistance.   Commercial pharmacies
specialize in items not on the essential drugs list because they tend to
generate higher profits. OPHAR is facing increasing difficulties in sup-
plying drugs to health facilities. Its budget for drug purchases has not
increased for the past five years, and management procedures and storage
facilities need to be improved. As a result, in some Government facilities
quarterly stocks run out after two months. The Government is aware of this
problem, which reduces the quality of health services provided, and is
taking steps to improve the situation.   OPHAR will be reorganized as a
parastatal agency. WHO will provide technical assistance to implement the
reorganization,  and  the  African  Development  Bank  is  financing  a
new warehouse and is likely to provide technical assistance.
Health Expenditures and Financing
32.         Total private and public outlays for health care amounted to
about 3.5% of GNP in 1984, or an equivalent of US$5 per capita, which is
close to the average figure for sub-Saharan African countries with a
similar low income level.   The major sources of finance for recurrent
expenditures are the Government, bilateral aid and the missions. More than
80% of the capital expenditure is financed by external donors. About half
of the capital expenditures during the past five years was funded by
Belgium and was used for purchase of equipment, renovation of hospitals and
for a new drug production unit. MOHSA's budgeted capital expenditure for
1984  is  about  6%  of  the  total  Government  investment  budget.    The
composition of capital expenditure seems in general to be well balanced
between central and peripheral facilities.  The public contributes to the
construction and rehabilitation of facilities through the system of
cooperative labor (umuganda).   For the past 10 years, MOH's recurrent
expenditures have averaged 6% of the annual recurrent budget.   The two
major categories of expenditure, as per the 1985 budget, are personnel
(57%) and drugs (13%).   The proportion of the MOHSA budget devoted to
personnel is much lower and more balanced than in most countries of the
region. Annual spending on drugs (in current RwF) was cut back in 1982 to
its 1977 level which resulted in a 35 Z reduction in real per capita terms.
External Assistance
33.        External assistance to the health sector has been provided by a
variety of agencies, particularly by the missions and philanthropic
organizations.   External assistance  to MOHSA itself has been limited.
USAID is co-financing the CCCD project with WHO, UNICEF and the Center for
Disease Control.   UNICEF is supporting training activities in MCH and
nutrition and some activities in water supply. The EEC is supporting the
development of a nutrition surveillance system through EDF.   French and
Belgian aid supports hospitals in the Kigali and Ruhengeri regions. For
the population program, the Government is receiving substantial external
assistance, almost all of which is being channelled through ONAPO. USAID,
with a US$6.25 million project for 1982-88, is presently the largest
donor.  UNFPA is financing some technical assistance and construction of



- 12 -
health facilities.   Various training activities are provided by JHPIEGO,
INTRAH and the University of Chicago. In all, an estimated US$9 million in
external assistance will have been provided for population programs in the
1982-1986 Plan.   The Government's main  financial contribution  is  the
personnel and administrative costs of ONAPO.   These amount  to US$0.6
million in 1984 or about O.5Z of the Government's total operating budget.
Cost Recovery
34.          Both Government and mission facilities levy fees for health
services. In Government facilities, drugs are included in the consultation
fee, but in the missions they are charged separately. In 1984, Government
revenues from health services represented about 7% of the total costs of
services provided by its health facilities.   Complete information about
fees  charged  by the missions  is not  available.    Since most mission
facilities rely heavily on fees for their financing, it can be inferred
that their fees are higher and the collection more rigorous than in
Government facilities. MOHSA is not adverse in principle to raising its
fees, but is currently focusing on the possibilities of charging for drugs
as the most effective approach to cost recovery.   MORSA is presently
reviewing an operational research project on drug financing at the
community level including preliminary studies on community willingness and
ability to pay and managerial capabilities needed which would be financed
under PPF.   MOHSA is also undertaking with WHO support a comprehensive
health financing study. It was also agreed during negotiations that MORSA
would present the findings of the study and a proposal to implement the
recommendatlons to the Association by April 31, 1987 at the latest.
Bank Group Strategy in the Sector
35.         IDA's principal objective in the PEN sector is to assist the
Government to reduce the rate of population growth and improve maternal and
child health.   The Government's strategy of developing a comprehensive
family health program is sound, and is the key feature of the Bank strategy
in the sector.   The five-pronged approach envisaged is to: (i) improve
family health services to adequately meet the increased demand for FP and
MCH services; (ii) provide assistance for imnproving the effectiveness of
the nutrition programs, and for integrating them with the MCH/FP activities
in the HCs; (iii) strengthen MOUSA further, so that the Ministry could
discharge its responsibilities more effectively; (iv) help train the
additional staff needed to overcome shortages; and (v) develop a data base
for improving policy formulation. This approach complements the assistance
being provided by other donors.
36.         Bank Group lending for population-related activities in Rwanda
has hitherto been confined to a population component in the IDA-financed
BGM II rural development project (Credit No. 1283-RW), and a component in
the Second Education project (Credit No. 1263-RW). The rural development



- 13 -
project will be completed at the end of 1988. The population objective was
to develop on an experimental basis community-based FP services. ONAPO was
responsible for implementation, which included IEC and training activities,
rehabilitation and equipping of a few health centers, and improved
supervision from the central level.   The component was limited to the
prefecture of Kibungo (about 500,000 people). While ONAPO was successful
in raising awareness of the population problem, it was unable to increase
significantly the number of contraceptive acceptors. The major constraint
was the lack of involvement of MOHSA in FP services provision at the HCs.
Other constraints were ONAPO's reluctance to use technical assistance as
planned and its limited planning and managerial capacities. However, this
effort gave IDA the opportunity to learn about the sector, and to identify
the need for r nproved collaboration and coordination between ONAPO and
MOHSA. The Second Education project includes support for the construction
of a nursing school in Gisenyi.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       A PPF advance of US$440,000 was approved by IDA on November 15,
1984.  Project preparation was handled by MOHSA, assisted by a task force
of  four  external  consultants  (in  FP,  nutrition,  architecture  and
preparation coordination), who worked in close coordination with seven
staff members from MOHSA and ONAPO, under the chairmanship of MOHSA's
Director of Administrative and Financial Affairs.   In April  1985,  a
detailed draft report was made available to the pre-appraisal mission, and
in late June 1985 a proposal was submitted to IDA. The proposed project
was appraised by an IDA mission in July-August 1985.  During the two years
of project preparation and appraisal, the proposed project has changed from
a hardware (buildings, equipment, vehicles) orientation to one focused on
delivery of comprehensive family health services.   As a result of the
dialogue between Government and Bank staff, the working relationships
between MOHSA and ONAPO staff have been defined, and the overall strategy
of implementing an integrated MCH/FP/Nutrition program has been developed.
The proposed project now constitutes a key element of the Government action
plan for providing more effective health and FP services to the general
population and on the longer term reducing the national fertility rate.
Project Objectives
38.          The proposed project would, in the context of the national
primary health care strategy, improve maternal and child health status,
and, more specifically, develop family planning. These objectives would be
achieved through: (a) improving the quality and increasing the coverage of
FP and MCH services; (b) improving the focus of nutrition activities and
integrating them into MCi services; (c) strengthening the institutional
capacity of MOHSA at the central and regional levels; and (d) increasing
the output and improving the quality of basic paramedical training
programs.  The proposed project would be an integral part of the Fourth
Development Plan (1987-91). It would complement other donor assistance in
health and population. To this end it was agreed during negotiations that
Government would transmit to the Association for comment by September 30
each year its proposed health sector investment program for the coning
year, including the family health project budget.



- 14 -
Project Description
39.             Strengthening Family Health Services.   Through specific
in-service   training,   essential   medical   supplies   and   intensified
supervision, FP services will be made widely available by 1991: (i) all HCs
(public and private) would be providing FP services (three times as many as
in 1983); (ii) each HC would be recruiting 20 new acceptors per month (five
times as many as in 1983); (iii) about two hours would be spent daily on FP
services in each EC, including clinical and non-clinical activities (O to
30 minutes daily in 1983); and (iv) all the NCs (162) would promote family
planning thrcugi health education.   The  latter point is particularly
innovative and should generate more demand for FP since 'Cs, whose clients
are  numerous,  could  refer  these  patients  to  health  centers  for
contraceptives.   Other MCH activities would benefit from the in-service
training/supervision   program:   (i)   pre-natal   care   will   improve
quantitatively and qualitatively; (ii) post-natal care, which is presently
almost non-existent, will be progressively developed; (iii) the control of
sexually transmitted diseases, a problem of growing importance, will be
introduced through use of condoms and standardized treatments as and when
appropriate; and (iv) NC activities will be targetted towards high-risk
groups, and the nutrition workers will learn how to use the new weaning
food developed during project preparation.
40.         In service training in FP and MCH service delivery would be
provided for:   medical assistants (in charge of the MCs), certified and
enrolled (A2, A3 level) nurses, nurses aides (A4 level), and social
workers/nutritionists. The training would include non-clinical techniques,
so as to enable staff to work more closely with the community and develop
interpersonal communication skills.   Nutrition and social workers would
receive instructions for integrating their work with HC activities,
delivering FP messages to clients of NCs and preparing and promoting the
new weaning food. Over the five year period, the project is expected to
train about 1400 staff. An average of about 7-10 training days per staff
per year are planned.   By project completion, the in-service training
program would be a well-established on-going activity. To ensure this, the
project would provide 7 staff-months of local and 3 months of foreign
consultancies for curriculum development and operating costs for training
sessions. Training sessions would be organized at the regional level by a
joint MOHSA/ONAPO team led by the regional health director.   The MOHSA
Training Division would develop a specific curriculum for each category of
health worker. According to the training program under preparation, staff
support would be provided by the TOHSA Training Division and ONAPO, and a
detailed implementation plan for the first year of the project.
41.       The project would provide for some of the contraceptives required
by an accelerated FP program as part of on-going donor assistance.
MOHSA/ONAPO have agreed on a target of 10% contraceptive prevalence rate
(modern methods only) for women in the fertile age (15-49) to be reached in
1991.  The target, though modest in absolute terms, implies increases in
acceptor rates equal to or greater than those achieved elsewhere in the
world under voluntary programs.   It implies that: (i) in 1991 more than
100,000 women will be using a modern contraception method (excluding
natural family planning methods), 10 times more than in 1983; (ii) during
the 1987-1991 period more than 200,000 new acceptors would be recruited



- 15 -
(recognizing that during that period not all 'acceptors' become regular
"users").   It also implies that ONAPO would sustain its  IEC efforts in
estimacing and responding to contraceptive requirements.   Presently, the
limited contraceptive needs are met by donations from various international
organizations. IDA funds would be used to supplement these free supplies
and to purchase injectable contraceptives for meeting 30X of the expected
needs at the health centers.
42.        The Government's two major objectives regarding the RC network
are: (i) to cake each RC capable of delivering key services, including
MCH/FP/Nutritlon services, short-term in-patient care and community
outreach activities; and (ii) to provide an average of one BC per 30,000
population (presently 43,000). In order to reach these objectives, MORSA
has been gradually increasing the number of HCs with the financial support
of various donors.  It is now planning to upgrade and rehabilitate about
half of the existing HCs and dispensaries, which are in poor condition and
do not meet the standard required for adequate service delivery. Project
support of this effort by financing the first phase of an BC rehabilitation
program  would  benefit  about  one  million  people.    During  project
preparation, MOHSA undertook a functional analysis of RC requirements,
including services to be provided, staff, equipment and space needed for
each type of activity. MOHSA then established a priority list of 30 HCs to
be upgraded and rehabilitated. The appraisal mission reviewed this work
and accepted 25 facilities. Five further locations remain to be selected.
It was agreed during negotiations that by December 31, 1986, Government
would provide to the Association the locations of these five health centers
proposed for rehabilitation during the third year of the project.
43.           Institutional Strengthening of MOHSA.       The project will
strengthen the institutional capacity of MOHSA to: ti) better plan and
manage centralized activities, particularly in the three new Divisions
(MCH, Training, Studies and Evaluation); and (ii) implement, at the
regional level,, the new strategy of integrated MCH/FP/Nutrition service
delivery, using a decentralized administrative system. The project would
enable the MCH Division, including the FP and Nutrition Bureaux, to better
manage and supervise field activities by providing equipment, supplies, two
vehicles and fellowships.  A long-term MCH/FP/Nutrition adviser is being
recruited under WHO contract for five years to assist in the planning and
implementation of the family health program.  The terms of reference and
scope of work for this expert have been agreed.  The project would also
support overseas fellowships in public health for the MCH Division chief,
to be appointed by MOHSA by September 30, 1986 (agreed during
negotiations), and for the FP Bureau deputy, along with fifteen study
tours.
44.       The project would also strengthen the MCH Nutrition Bureau.  It
would help the Bureau in:   (i) introducing a new weaning food; (ii)
targeting  nutrition  activities  towards  priority  groups;  and  (iii)
collaborating with the FP Bureau by integrating FP activities into the NC
program. The Bureau, with the guidance of the Nutrition Training Center,
will be strengthened through the provision of teaching materials, equipment
and a vehicle each.   The project would also  finance study  tours in
appropriate countries where nutrition programs have been successfully
integrated into MCR activities.



- 16 -
45.          The Training Division would develop the in-service training
program  for HC  personnel.    The  project  would  provide  for about  20
staff-months of advisory assistance to help the Division develop an
in-service training curriculum, and a plan for its implementation,
supervision and evaluation procedures.  It was agreed during negotiations
that in order to accommodate the increased workload, MOHSA would appoint,
by December 31, 1986, an additional training specialist in this division.
The project would also provide equipment, teaching materials and a
vehicle. The Studies and Evaluation Division, created to develop planning
and evaluation capacities of MOHSA, needs a more effective health
information  system  (vital  and  service  statistics)  to  fulfill  its
functions.    The  project  would  finance  seven  staff-months  of  foreign
consultancies to analyze the present system and to propose and introduce
improvements.   At negotiations it was also agreed that by December 31,
1987, MOHSA would present, for approval by IDA, its proposal to improve its
health information system. The project would also provide two fellowships
for statisticians, office equipment and a vehicle. To monitor the impact
of the family health program, the project would also finance operating
costs to undertake two surveys on fertility and MCH status.
46.          Presently, only two out of ten health regions have adequate
offices for the regional health director and his staff, including the ONAPO
physician, nurse and social worker. In the other regions, staff is poorly
housed at scattered locations and cannot effectively undertake its
supervision responsibilities.   The project would, therefore, finance the
construction, equipment and one vehicle each for eight regional offices,
including  13  staff  houses.    Each  regional  office  would  include
administrative space, storage facilities and residential quarters.
47.       The regional director and his staff would play an important role
in developing a supervision system for the family health program and in
implementing  the  in-service  training  program  for BC  personnel.    To
strengthen supervision of the HC network, MOHSA and ONAPO have agreed on a
work program which familiarizes the regional staff with planning, managing
and supervising the restructured MCH program. Staff from five regions have
already been trained with funds from the PPF.   To continue this effort
additional workshops will be held in Kigali with participation from senior
staff  from  MOHSA,  ONAPO  and  MINEPRISEC,  including  the  training
consultants.   Supervision will also be improved quantitatively, with each
HC visited by the regional medical director (or his deputy) at least once
every two months.   The project will also support the salaries of 10
additional regional MCH supervisors and their operating costs.   These
supervisors will be social workers in charge of monthly monitoring of the
integration of FP activities within. the daily activities of H/NCs.
48.       Human Resource Development.  This component would have two parts
(i) pre-service training and deployment of nursing aides (A4 level),
undertaken by MOHSA; and (ii) construction, staffing, and management of two
new nursing schools for A3-level nurses, undertaken by the MINEPRISEC. To
address the critical manpower shortage and to deal effectively with the
needs generated by the intensified and restructured MCH/FP/Nutrition
program, the project would support the pre-service training of about 200
nurses aides. The training would be done in the existing schools, which



- 17 -
can  accomodate additional  students.    The  project would provide  for
training of trainers, incremental operating costs and monitoring and
evaluation by the HOHSA Training Division. The curriculum was reviewed by
Bank staff and found appropriate.  The additional yearly output would be
about 40 nurses aides, who would work in HCs to ensure adequate staffing of
primary health care facilities.   The 200 new nurses aides would help
introduce the restructured MCH program, and to make FP services widely
available. The project simultaneouly provides for training of enrolled A3
nurses (para. 49), who would be ready for deployment in 1992.  At that
time, the question of career opportunities and professional future of
nursee aides would arise since the A3 nurses will progressively replace
them. To facilitate eventual absorption of the nurses aides into the cadre
of enrolled nurses, MOHSA is presently reviewing the mechanism whereby a
career path for A4 staff could be established.   It was agreed during
negotiations that by December 31, 1987, a career path for nurses aides
would be agreed upon between MOHSA and MINEPRISEC.
49.        Nursing Schools.  Training of additional paramedical personnel,
particularly enrolled nurses (A3 level), is an urgent need recognized by
the Government since 1982.  Substantial shortages of nurses would remain
until mid-1990 unless additional training facilities are provided.   The
project would finance the construction of two new nursing schools in Byumba
and Kaduha for A3 nurses comprising five classrooms, a laboratory, a
preparation room and a library each. The project would as well provide for
construction of two houses for teaching staff at each school. Professional
and architectural services would be provided by the construction agency
(SFCS) of the MINEPRISEC, which is presently supervising the constrdction
of a virtually identical nursing school in Gisenyi, financed by the Second
Education Project.   The new nursing schools, with a capacity of 120
students each, would be established adjacent to the Government hospitals in
Byumba and Kaduha.   The schools would, in line with Government policy,
provide a four-year training course for selected primary school graduates
with a yearly output of about 25 nurses each, starting in 1992.   The
curriculum has been reviewed by Bank staff and found to be satisfactory.
Upon successful completion of training, graduates would be awarded a
MINEPRISEC diploma and assigned to HCs and hospitals.   When in full
operation, each new school would require four full-time teachers, seven
part-time teachers and an administrative staff of about 22. A specialist
recruited under Project would conduct training of nurse teachers.
50.       Population Policy.  The project would strengthen ONAPO's capacity
to formulate population policy by funding two key operational research
studies.   One would focus on factors influencing  the acceptance  and
continuation of modern contraception, while the other would analyse the
causes of mother/child deaths. Overall guidaneo would be provided by the
ONAPO Studies Division, and would closely involve MOHSA field staff and The
University Public Health Center in Butare.   The project would provide
equipment, six months of consultancies, and operating costs for the
studies.



- 18 -
Project Implementation
51.          The project would be implemented through existing Government
departments and  staff, managed by  two  separate entities:    the MOHSA
Secretary General would have responsibility for implementing the MOHSA part
through a Project Coordination Office and its line directorates, in
collaboration with ONAPO; and the MINEPRISEC would implement its part
through the SFCS. A project Coordinating Committee, chaired by the MOHSA
Secretary General, and consisting of the Directrice of ONAPO and the
Director of SFCS, along with officials from the Ministries of Finance and
Planning, would  be responsible  for  overall project coordination.   A
condition of credit effectiveness agreed during negotiations is that MOHSA
will appoint a Project Coordinator, an accountant and an architect with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA. The Project Coordinator
and his staff would report directly to the MOHSA Secretary General, and
would maintain close liaison with the other MHSA Departments. The Project
Coordinator would serve as secretary to the Coordinating Committee, and
manage the project implementation and periodic reporting.
Monitoring and Evaluation
52.          The MORSA Studies and Evaluation Division would monitor the
progress of project implementation. Particular attention would be paid to
the number and quality of health staff retrained, additional nurses aides
(A4) trained and deployed, health facilities up-graded/rehabilitated and
health facilities delivering FP  servicee.   Among outcome  indicators,
contraception prevalence would be of particular importance and would be
monitored jointly with ONAPO. An evaluation of the specific impact of the
project on population and health status is not possible due to the variety
of external factors (including other projects) influencing morbidity,
mortality and fertility.   However, the Government has requested project
support for collecting baseline data on MCH status and for documenting
changes in fertility, maternal and infant mortal.ty and nutritional
status. A baseline survey will be undertaken during the first year of the
project, and a second survey (using the same sample) is planned during the
last years of the project. Survey design has been reviewed by the Bank and
found satisfactory.
Project Costs and Financing
53.        The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$14.5
million equivalent, net of taxes. Items imported for the project would be
exempt from taxes and duties. Project costs are expressed in August, 1985
prices. The foreign exchange component amounts to US$7.9 million, or 55Z
of total project costs.   Cost estimates for civil works are based on a
review of cost data of recent construction work in Rwanda, including
construction financed under the Second Education Project.   For physical
contingencies, on average five percent has been added to the base cost for
civil works, furniture and equipment. Price contingencies are estimated on
the basis of annual price increases for local costs of 72 per annum during
the project period. For the foreign exchange component, contingencies of
7X for 1986/1987, 7.5% for 1988, 7.7% for 1989, 7.6% for 1990, and 4.5Z for
1991 have been used.



- 19 -
54.          The proposed IDA Credit of US$10.8 million equivalent would
finance about 75% of total project costs, including all foreign exchange
costs and 44% of local costs. The Government would allocate US$2.9 million
to the project (20Z of total cost). A grant of US$725,000 will be provided
by WHO for technical assistance for MCi/FP/Nutrition (5% of total cost).
The project's main recurrent cost is for salaries of the additional
paramedical staff trained under the project-financed staff development
program, and other incremental operating costs associated with supervision,
and  in-service  training.    The  estimated  incremental  recurrent  costs
generated by the project at completion represent only about 3.5% of the
estimated MORSA operating budget for 1992, assuming a GNP growth rate of 3%
annually and constant share of 6.0% of MORSA in the Government budget
allocation. As such the project is clearly affordable. The Ministry of
Finance shares this assessment and does not see any difficulty fo- the
Government to absorb this increase.
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       Annex IV details the breakdown and manner in which items would be
procured under the project.
56.        The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against: 1OOZ
of cost of civil works; 100l of foreign expenditure and 80% of local
expenditure for furniture, equipment, medical supplies and vehicles; 100%
of  consultant  services,  fellowships,  studies  and  training,  except
consultant services funded by WHO; 70X of operating costs for project
administration, except salaries, vehicle operating costs and per diem of
supervisory staff.
57.          All disbursements will be fully documented except those for
training and operating costs and for contracts below US$10,000 equivalent.
These  would  be  made  against  statements  of  expenditures   (SOEs),
documentation for which would not be submitted for review but would be
retained by the Borrower.   It would be subject to an annual audit by
auditors acceptable to the Association.   In addition, the documentation
would be readily available for review by the Association representatives
during project supervision. The Borrower would not submit applications for
reimbursement valued below US$20,000 equivalent. Based on expenditures in
previous IDA-financed projects, the SFCS has satisfactory institutional
capacity to use SOEs, and to assist the NOHSA Project Coordination Office
to use the procedure. The project would be completed in five and one-half
years. Based on experience of on-going IDA education projects and because
of the unusually advanced state of preparation particularly for civil
works, a disbursement profile of six years (as against eight years
standard) is considered reasonable.
58.       In order to ensure that funds for project implementation would be
available when required, a special account would be established at the
National Bank of Rwanda. The account would be replenished by IDA on the
basis of documentary evidence of payments made for goods and services.
Opening of the special account, into which an initial deposit of US$0.6
million would be made by IDA, is recognized to be a condition of credit
effectiveness.



- 20 -
Project Benefits and Risks
59.       The project would have a substantial impact on the FP and health
situation in Rwanda. Family planning services would be made available at
200 HCs, and over one million couples would have access to modern methods
of contraception.   The project objective of reaching a contraceptive
prevalence of 10% by 1991 (up from 0.9% in 1983) is modest in absolute
terms, but equals or exceeds acceptance rates achieved in other developing
countries under voluntary programs. It would set in motion a process that
should gain momentum in subsequent years, eventually leading to a reduction
of fertility by year 2000.   The two research studies would provide the
basic data needed for developing new strategies for the population program.
60.          The thirty upgraded/rehabilitated HCs would allow about one
million people from underserved areas to have better access to health care,
including nutrition and family planning. The project would strengthen the
Ministry's administrative capacity to plan, implement, monitor and evaluate
the  MCHlFP/Nutrition  program.    Improvements  would  be  made  at  all
levels-central, regional, and local-using technical assistance, training,
equipment and logistical support. The introduction of a new weaning food
will be a real benefit. The development of a better health data base would
improve decision-making in key areas of resource allocation and evaluation
of program effectiveness.   This institutional strengthening would enable
MOHSA to sustain its MCH/FP/Nutrition program efforts after the project is
completed.
61.        Finally, the project would assist the Government in solving one
of the health system's most severe constraints: the shortage of paramedical
personnel. In-service training and pre-service training would help improve
the quality of para-medical staff nationwide. The nursing schools for A3
nurses would train primary health care staff. New curricula and teaching
methodologies, developed with technical assistance financed by the Project,
would improve the professional competence of nursing school graduates.
62.         Tne main risk is that due to MOHSA's limited administrative
capacity, proiect implementation could be delayed or otherwise hindered.
As a first time borrower, MOHSA has little experience or appreciation of
the management challenge inherent in implementing a major IDA-funded
project.   This constraint can be eased by providing suitable technical
assistance, but thus far MOHSA has mainly utilized free technical
assistance from other agencies.   To minimize this risk, key long-term
advisory positions will be financed by IDA.   In addition, Bank and
Government supervision will focus on active donor coordination and closely
monitor the technical assistance inputs.
63.            The second risk is that delays in implementing MOHSA's
decentralization strategy could easily cause shortfalls in pro,ect
achievement. Although the roles and tasks of various categories of staff
have been recently clarified, and extensive in-service training and
supervision is envisaged, intensified efforts might be needed as project



- 21 -
implementation proceeds. Bank missions would need to continuously monitor
the nature, extent, and effectiveness of decentralized administration, and
its impact on the restructured family health program.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and I recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
March 6, 1986



-22                                                  Annex r
TABLE s    a                                      Page  1 of  6
*wa   - SOUIA IHIC^sa                   eXISS) /a
No"r                     (NUT uiCac ISTIATh) /b
n.ok       1970t1 Ul               o LOW IW aU  0          NtoS S.0t s
XITKNAI3a    SOMim Or iANARA      AFRICAL S. OP S*5*3A
aa(misa5m MR. no
TOTAL                              26.3        26.1        26.1
SUIOL71URL                        15.0        15.2        14.8
Cw m  cr  ()                            ..         ..        270.0             23A                      1063.8
CKILQ 7A Or OIL UwUThLUhuI          10.0       1I.0        18.0              62.2                    5S1.5
Pmus Me us STL ASIIX
MILuxxouz.U    (traum)    2525.0             3165.0    .5674.0
umam POPUIA CZS (3r ToTArI           2.6        3.2         4.               20. 1                    32.0
OULATIU11 US 2000 CHMIL                                  10.2
I  UULtIC (IW)                                A0.0
POPULATIW ICIWlIENT                                       2.0
roris      osm
e SQ. M.                         04.5       140.3       215.4              13.2                     45.1
FMSq. a. WI. UlA                 136.1      262.9       370.9             112.J                    124
POMAIno AE SsCnUn  (Z)
0-14 us                          ".2        :.S.6       464               46.0                     65.6
15-4 us                          53.0        51.5        50.5              50.8                     31.5
63 AM 0AI                         2.1         2.7         2.3               2.9                      2.7
MPUOLATO CEOUtS mAn9 (3)
ToT7L                             2.4         2.9         3.3               2.8                      2.9
UNm                                5.5        34a         6.2               6.4                      5.1
own   ism umn (M          )        51.1        5.1         51.9              47.2          *7.0
Cmon ca  mra  (M c Ta n)           19.2        17.6        19.4              17.3                     15.0
GSM  WXRUOUCUIOH aTE                3.5         3.8        4.1                3.3                      3.2
IranlI PLAHNTh
wAnC    , su.    s (as)            .....
UA  CZ or KARRs Maul)              ..         ..          1                 33                       6 .
reawm mutEM
uns or rOW  "M. Mi CaFnT
C 19-71'-LO)                       31.0       102.0       107.0              63.3                     62.9
M ci SUFPL: or
C aLUS CZ o? itqUUhiinS)         31.0        S3.0       3.0                *7.7                     93.5
PWoUs (GRAN M         )          49.0        56.0        50.0              51.9                     55.4
or UNCE HINL AMD M S            26.0        330         29.0 I            16.7                     16.5
CHIL  (C   1-4) 05M %T             37.5        32.5        26.0              23.1                     IGA
LIPg usPEC. AX aUm (mZsS)          46.2        48.0       46.5               47a                      52.0
131ANT  W. am  CPU tWOS)          166.5       149.5       125A.             119.5                    10OS4
TaL                                ..         ..         4.0 It            27.1                     42.4
OuRB"3                            a. ..                  48.0              63.5                     67.3
Rom                               ..          ..        35.0               19.3                     5sa
A0053 TO    n&V DISPOSWL.
(ta OFWIOILATIO)
TOML                              ..         33.0       31.0 id            26.5                     28.9
033                                          63..  6.0  6O.o071            65.4                     57.7
IDEAL                             ..         52.0       50.0              20.8                     20.7
POPULATICU FM  P3LCXAu         139050.0       5960.0    31360.0 1         27901.7                 t17t.7
PP. PU MRUS  mP0                11270.0      U20.0      9790.0             320.                     2434A
Par. PUS  SPITAL -
7OTAL                                       70.0       450.0 id          1273.6                    981.1
0. se o                                      50.0       5o.a7             42.2                     346.8
ZIUaL                             ..       3100.0     1600.07;           3292.3                   4311.9
amSs   mm mOsQ. Sm                  ..         21.2        *-                 *-                      27.Z
Ainsa SIl or UDsOW
TOTAL                             ..          ..
sue                       .~    ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~. ..
IDEL                              ..          ..         .                   ..
west mW. or Pl3SO/noM
TOTAL                             ..          ..
D                             *m  ..          ..          .                  ..
IDUL                              ..          ..
IPRRDILU   W OlALUSS  1tT SL.
TTL                               ..          ..          .                  ..
umme..                               ..          .                  ..
Tom                               .           .*



-23
- 23 -      '.                           ~~~~Annex I
TA * L * 14                                      Page  2  of 6
A                     - SCIAL tDkCt    DT  U
311*11A                             .35103 CSw%PS (IGN   AMVERAS) /a
NOR                      CHOW SCEN  ZffhA     /b
wed!     701k ESGEIT          LOU tINGE  AflCA         "IDDLE Ncm
LoGal  rpm    usrmnL4k         SOUTF0 SAHARA        *9310 S. Olr SANARtA
ADJUSTS, 101 1W , RATIOS
PaUDA:s  TOL                     49.0        74.0       70.0               87.4                     95.7
MIALI                  08.0       83a         72.0              77.0                    1.0
PnuAL                  30.0 o      3.0        07.0              34.9                     03.2
2CCIIDART:  TAL                   2.0         2.0        2.0               13-5                     17.3
mALE                    2.0        3.0         3.0              17.9                     25.0
13305                   1.0        1.0         2.0               9.1                     14I
VOCATSL  (I 0W SW       )          39.9        12.2       24.0               13.2                     5.9
IWIL-SCACn 3810
P33MM                            39.0        00.0       33.0               44.9                     01.1
uuaaNr                           14.0        13.0       14.0               27.4                     25.3
PASSUIKR CAESWIOUSAU MPO            0.4         0.9        ..3.4                                      2
ItDO           1        vat         ..          8.1      2u.s                S5L                     107.8
TV     rSifluA p                    ..          ..          ..                2.4                     20.8
HW       (bAn       aD
hH!EUSV  CZISLATOU
nt 719          ro                 ..          ..M         O.t           * .                         1 o  .a
CDu  An   L                         ..I                                       0.5                       A
TOTAL  801 VOIE (TOOS)           1538.       W 2W.0     2915.0
nowz (PnIED)                     49.1        484        46.4               34.2                     3S.2
a'lImUs (C                       93.0        *A         91.0 ld            77.3                    54.5
IDDsTI C                          1.0         2.0        2.077              9.7                    18.3
PA .TICWATIOU RE (flCmw
TOL                              54.0       534.3       31.4               39.3                    30.8
Au                              53.9        34.9        54.5              30.9                     47.1
P30                              34.4        51.9       49.1               28.1                    27.2
IcoUONiC  DC ! 38110                0.8         0.9        0.9                1.3                      1.3
Ieeror ntis   -
zmmm   sx r    oses
3191? W r OF H.OSoLS.                         ...
LON?  OP  1 1_                    ..          ..          .                 ..
LoWS? 40 or0   o_..               ..
LUVL (1SP S  CAVA)
DAM                               .0 ..                18.0 /e            10653                   390.7
mu        -                       ..          .          ..               95.0                    27J3
a nDIT  SZATIVE taVE    amma
LImL (OU P  CUMA
UUU                               ,,          ..         ..               113.1                   5434 
RAL                               ..          ..        43.0 Ic           074                     201.1
an t. so. UCU
tOWSR?   nim  LEM  CZ)
RAM                               ..          ..        30.0 /c           3.04
RURAL~~ ..                           ..          ..               814a                      .
aunt                                                                       GIZCUL
Ea ~
/a   Us. sroP annw for each tadtester ar p-r-'    - 4tS otdl ettec ams. Coerae af cotrli
amonng cbe lailcatnr. dipeada -n &waIZlty of data end Ja not aVero..
lb  DAleos otbezeets ace   "Dat for 1IW  refer teom   yaea       e  1959 ad 1981; "Data for 1970"
l190 and 1971: nd dat for 9eoe Mces  gstlet" batrn  1381 at 1963.
It  1977; /d 190; la 182.
.-.         -



;  - 24-                                                Anitezx  I
-24- .1a  T of 6
DOFNmMONS OF SOCIAL NDICATORS
Notm Athoug the damn  drmwn ro survisapmanyJudl the most aushhtive and reiable. t oUl albo be noted dat thy may not be Int omly
compmable bmcw or thek lack of asaddimd dduluon mg -ut-ps ud by diNems cmain. collelk-tg the data The damsn a oahel d  o
dribe order orniapktd IdI  tronds. an dwacm     an __mao d ncea bten counte
The  se up ae (1) the mum country group of the mabdect couy and (2) a conuny grup wkh mewhat Ig  avemae Inwom than de country
srpf at hesbjea am" (except for "High Incme Oil espe" group w_e  MWddle Income Nort Afam nd Middle   is draen bauom   rtauron
sacl    al a a)~ bn the reference group data the vapa  popu n wn ed athmetic _mes mor cindcatr andown nly whe majorkty
ofthecounlIan c roup h dan for that indicuor. Sine he d e ofcounriam  the inditon depends on the availability ofdsta and ia not uniform.
carutionmtbee  iedareatiavesofoineidic too another.Tbeearageoreonlyuulincompnngtevalueofoneinaordatathimeang
the country and reea  grup
AEA (thota  sq.knL)                                            Cd Brth Rote (per thonwad)-Number of live births in the year
Toif-Total surface area comprising land area amd inland waters  per thousad of nid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 amd 1983 data                                       CrG  Deat Rate (,wr thimNad)-Number of deuhs in the year
Agritf-Es timate of agrultwal ar  used temporarily or          p r thousand of amid-ysar population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pemanendy for crops. pasture market and kitchen pakns or to    Gre  Rep qdudo Rare-Average number of daughters a woman
ie fsallow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 datL                           will bear in her nor.al reroductive period if she expericrs
present age-specfic fertility rates usualy five-year avas ening
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current       in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices calculated by same convarsion method as World     &              A         Ani (dmiss       -Annual num-
lask Atns (1981-83 basisk 1983 dta.                            ber of accepwrs of birth-control devices under auspics of naional
ENERGY CONSUMPIION PER CAPITA-Annual appart                    family planning prgamL
consumptko  of commercal primary energy (coal and lgnite.      Family Pluiq.-lsers (percgtq of mniwed awmer)-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of mared vomen of child-bearing age who are piacticing or
tncity) in kilogamms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands ae practicng any form of contraception. Women
1982 data                                                      of child-bearing age are genally women aged 15-49. although for
some countres conaptive usage is measured for odier age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATnSTCS                                 groupL
Tned tP9p11 ro3   MII-Yw (dhewainds)-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRIMON
and 1983 data.
Yrim  Pepadi (pere    i of tv)-Ratio of urban to total         IALe of FoodPedagosPerCapa(196-71- JN)-indexofper
poplaton;diferet dfintios o uran rea ma afectcapita annual production of all food commodities Production
population; different defimuons of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes anma feed and seed for agricultur  Food commoditis
ability of data among coutries 19601970. and 1983 daI          include pnmay comodite  (eg. sugarcane instead of sugar)
P.phade.Prejcuiu                                               which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea are
Popdaom in year 2000-The projetion of populaton for 2000.      eduded); tdey comprie cereals. root crops. pulses oil seds.
made for each economy scparately. Strtig with informaton on    vetables, fruits. nuts. supnare and sugar beets. ivestoc  and
total popuation by age and sex etlity rats mortality rats and  lives     products. Aggagte production ofeach country is based
iternational migration in the bwse year 1980 these paammet     on natidoal  erge producer price weights 1961-6S. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generlized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.            Per Capita Supy efCalwis (pecent afreq w       j-Comput-
Starinary popuatin-Is one in which age- and se-specific mor-   ed from caloone equivalent tonet food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domsic produc-
fertilty rates have simultaneousy remained at replmet level    tion. imports less exports and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate-1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal eed. secds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age stuture is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  esmated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the prjected charactmistis of  and health considering environmental temperatur  body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decine of ferility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                     waste at household kvel: 1961. 1970 and 1982 daum.
Popadion Mo lena-Is the tendency for populaton growth to       Per Cra Su    y of Proie (gran per y-Protein content of
contiue beyond the tune that replcmet-level fertility has bet  per capita net supply of food per day. r4et supply of food is defined
achieve; tha is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requrements for all countries estabished by USDA
unity. Ihe momentum ofa population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the polion                                                            m day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of   which 10 gram
the year t. given the assumption that fertiity remains at replac-  should be animal protein. Tbese standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data                       75 grms of total protein and 23 grans of animal protein as an
FOP.Sdm Deniry                                                 avere for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third Wodd Food
Per sqAnL-Mid-year population per square kilmetr (100 hec-     Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               Per Capa heted Supply Fomi Anilan dh -Protein supply
Per sq.kn. agrmkuW  LAnd-Computed as above for agricultural    offood derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 da.
Paptiaa. Age Structre (percent)-Childreu (0-14 years). work-   CNN (ie 1-4) Deat Rate (per thomsud)-Numberol'deat  of
ing ag(S-64yea).andmired(65yaandover)aspecentage               childwi aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960,1970, and 1983 daL                group in a given year. For most devdoping countries data derived
Popultka.C;reuth Rat (perc nr)-tol-Annual growth rates of      from lfe tabes 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HE
ACpeado  Groh* RAe (pent),whop-Annual growth rat               L4* Expectny at "  (yeaw)-Namber of yemas a newborn
of urban popuation for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197083 data.      infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for al people



-25 -                                                 Annex I
Page 4 of 6
at the dmc of of its birth were to stay the mm throughout its life;  Pupl-teawher Ratio - primay, and secondary-Total students en-
1960, 1970 aNd 1933 data.                                     rolled in primary and  econdary lvel divided by numbers of
bow Mwalt  Awe (per rthmsmN)-bnumber of infants who die    teachrs in the corresponding kvels.
before reag one yea of age per thouand live births in a given
year 1960.1970 and 1983 datL                                  CONSUMPTION
Ac,e  to S*  Wowr (prce  of pPU    ii)-t-o4  whii   d         Paunge Cas (per thousad pop*kr)-Passengcr cars com-
rwn5-Nwnber of people (totaL urb   and runa) with reaonable   prisc motor cars scating less than eight persons: excludes ambul-
accre  to safe war supply (includes trated surfsce waters or  anon, hearses and military vehicles.
untrad but uncontmnted water such as that from protrecd       RAo Receiwers (pr thowand pepuedirn)-All types of receivers
boreholes spanps and smnitary waes) as  percentage of thir respw-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tve populdo. In an urban area a public fountain or stndpost   exlude un-licnsed receivers in counetrie  and in years when
located not more than 200 met     _ ro  a bouse may be cosidered  registration of radio sets was in elfect; data for recent years may
as being withna reasonble access of that house. In rural Areas o  ecmabesnemotcutisaoiWI
rasonable access would imply that the housewfec or members of the  not be com trpml sincemos countrie ablihe   bcensin st
houselolsd do not have to spend a disproportonate part of the day  Rvr              ppa       -Tr reci forbroadt
in fetching the family's water needs                          to  nerd public per thousand populadion excludes unlicensed TV
*e,eives in countries and in yeas when rgistikon of TV set was
Accus to Exuma DiNJO5a (pJvgwN ofppddon-o4  arm               in effect.
and una-Number of pcople (totaL urba  and rural) served by
eacreta disposal as percentages of thir respectve populations.  Newsp_pw CwCulm  (per rhownidpapakeop)-Shows the aver-
Excta disposal may include the collection and disposal with or  age circulation of "dady gneal interest newspaper defined as a
without treatnt of human excreta and wast-water by water-     perioil pubficaion devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit pivies and sinilar instaltions.  It is considerd to be 'daily" if it appea at least four times a week.
Pbpdu per Php uihn-Population divided by number of prac-      C2imeon Amu. Attendncer per Capia per ar-Based on the
dsing physicians qualified from a medical school at university levl.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admisions to
Pbpdap i  per NnPAn  nersm-FPopulatio  divided by aum ber of  dinve-in cinems and mobile units.
practicing male and female grduate nurses. assistant nurses.
practcal nurses and nuorsig aumhares                          LOR FORCE
_bdm. t  Hosil Bed-uea uham, ad ral-?bpulation               Taintalabor Fioce (tah adsD-Economically active persons. in-
(totL urban, and rurl) divided by their respective nmber,of   cluding anned forcs and unemployed but excluding housewivs,
IboqiW beds avabtinpslaW   pand prvi,g  1 dSmeral and Vaia2cd-  students. etc. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
bospital beds arvaiaole instabn    tsp ge  a  spemalized      varous comes ar not comparabk; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
pemanently staffed by at kast one physician Esmblhments p     Femwle (percen)-Fa male labor force as percentage of total labor
iding princpally custdial care are not induded. Rural hospitals.    forcme
oweveiel udch health and  edicalcaters not permanently staffed  Agrkcahu, (paer -Labor force in fanning, forestry. hunting
by a physian (but by a mdkical asstan. nurs, midwife, etc)    and fisling as percetnage of total labor force 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodaon and provide a liited range  data.
of medical facilities                                         hldst, (peren)-Labor formc in mining. constuction. manu-
Ad-ds'_ur per HwntaI Bed-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and elctricity. wager and gas as percentage of total labor
disags fiom hospitals divided by the number of beds.          forme; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
Puriad  Rrew (pwvmuj-ei4 mak.  dfaina-PArticipation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as totaL male and female blbor force
Aveg JWgc of Nold (pes. per 1ekiO)-eeed  _n'ha,               as perentges of totaL male and female population of all agos
mdrival-A household cosist ofa group of indiviuas who sare    espectively 1960.1970. and 1983 data Thes are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meakl A boarder or bdger may or  participation  tes reecting age-sx structure of the population and
may ort be included in the household for statistical purposes  long time trend. A few estimates are from nationa soures.
AveW  Nxn,er of Pursw pe Room-eraL  ar, and ewa-               &oxamac Depeaduwy Radv-Ratio of population under lS. and
Averge number of persons per room in all urban, ad rural      65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
oupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwdlimgs exclude
non-permanent stractures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Perm ea qDwE    ,Wh                    arba, A_d raral-       Percta  of Teed Dispsbe Lwow (ek im cash ad kWnd)-
Convenional dwellings with ekcticity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of tota. urban and rual dweling respectivdy.             hold incMe
EDUCATnON                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
AdPwa Ew _.a nAt                                              The folowing estirates are very approxinmate measures of povey
Phx' xdbd - .0a. ger mofetae-o     tL roal and                levels, and should be interpreted with considerable cautioo.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary lvd as per_tags of  EstinvdaAbshwe Po hweriy [mm m  Lewd (US per cqpira_)-arbm
respective pimay shool-ge populations. Wbilc many countries   ad ua-Absolute poverty icome lcevd is that income lvel
consider p_rmry schsodl age to be 6-11 years others do not The  below which a mioimal nutrtionally adequate dit plus essential
diffeen   in couy pracices in te as and duration of school    non-food requirements is not affordable.
ae reilected in th ratios gvn. For soine countries with univesa  ErdL'naed Relatv Poerty bLcre Led (U per capima)--wa
edca_on, goS  eolm t may ceed 100 percnt since some           ad r -Rural rative povery income kvel is one-third of
pupils ae bdow or above the countrys standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
ae                                                            derived from the rural levd with adjustment for higber cost of
Secodry sco5l - tosa  mae andfeala-Computed as above          living in urban areas
secndary education rir  at last four years of approved pri-   EwrImte Ppslwimidaw A bs            Powery Income Lad (pe-
mry _MMon; provides geneaL voctonaL or teacher training       c-11) -wbaund rura- Pazcc of population (urban and rural
intucto  for pupils usually of 12 to 17 yeats of age; correspond-  who are 'absolute poor.
c    Come we geerly excluded.
Vecadaha Etwn    fpereenr oif acmnay)-Vocatoual insitu-                 Compartive Analysis and Dat Dvision
tia  incle tecickal indial or other proagms which operate             Economic Analysis and Projections Departmn
ideeely or as d rtmets of secondary inostitutionL                                     June 1985



AhezY T
- 26  -                                   Page5of 6
CouITRMY DATA - IUANDA
AREA                                          POPULATION                         DENSITY (1983)
26. 3 tbousand sq. km.                        5.7 millon (19U3)                 210 per sq. km.
Ract  of Crowtht                   393 per sq. km. of
3.72                                  arable land
POPUATION CRARACTERISTICS (1931-83)                                 HEALTH (1980)
Crude birth Rate (per 1.000)             51.9                       Populatlon per physiclan        31.340
Crude Deatb Rate (per 1.000)             19.4                       Population per hospital bed        660
INCOME DISTRIBUTION                                                 ENERCG  CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
2 of national income, hbighst quintile    .                       (Kllograms of coal equivalent)   28.0
lowest quntil.e
ACCESS TO SAFE wATER (1980)                                         ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
2 of population - total                  54.0                       I of populatlon - total            2.0
- rural
NUTRITION (1981-83)                                                 EDUCATION (1980)
Calorie intake  *- Z of requirements     88.0                       Adult literacy rate S             37.0
Per capita proteli Intake                50.0                       Primry school enrollment 2        72.0
(grams/day)
1,
CNP PER CAPITA iN 19837: USS 260
CROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1983                                              ANNUAL RATE OF CROUTH
Cl. constant 1983 prices) 21
USS Min.       S                                       1979-S4
CD? at Market Prices          1.503.1     100.0                                        4.2
Gross Domestic Investment       203.5      13.5                                        7.1
Gross National Saving            39.6       2.6
Current Account Balance       -170        -11.3
Export of Coods. RFS            137.3       9.1                                       -2.83J
Import of Coods. NFS            272.3      18.1                                        5.1
GOVERINENT FINANCE
Central GCovrnment
-w  Ulu.              Z of CDP
1964          1984            1980
Carrent Receipts                       17.369         11.0             12.4
GCrrent Expenditure                    15,753         10.0              9.4
Current Surplooldeficlt                 1.616          1.0              2.9
Capital Expenditures                    2.626          1.7              2.1
overall Surplus/deficit */             -3,741         -2.3              0.8
I/ Preliminary data.
Ba lsed on end-period values.
3/The decline in exports during this period to explained by the fact that 1979 was
as export boom year.
41 The overall surplus Is not equal to the difference between current savings and development
expendltures because the consolidated surplus or deficit of the Treasury special accounts is not obawn In thil
tsble.
not available
not appl icable



-27-                               ~~~~~~~Annez I
COUITlt DATA - ItWADA                                     Page 6 of 6
HONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                   1979         1980         1981        1912         1983         1964
(Million IwY outsetadlag acd perlod)
moeOy Supply/                            14,112       14.117      15,938       16.135       18,054       19,074
leak Credit to Coverment (not)            -1,473      -3,931       -2,918         -682        2,010       1,912
Bank Credit to Private Sector              4,564        6,450       8,147        6,849        9.887       11,387
(percentage or Index lumber.)
money as S of CDP                           14.8         13.1         12.9        12.0         12.8         12.2
Consuer Price Index (1980 - 100)            93.2        100.0       106.5        119.8        127.7       137.5
Annual percentage cheangcs Is
Conmer Price Index                        15.8         7.3          6.5         12.4         6.6          7.7
lank Credit to Government (net)       -6404.3        170.3        -26.7        -76.6      -394.7         -4.9
lank Credit to Private Sector            -11.1        42.0         25.7          6.6         11.7        17.2
- ALAIICC or PATIENTS                                                           MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (A"ERACE 1979-1984'
Actual                                           USS  ism.     S
(in current US S)
1980    1961   1982   19S3   1984s/       Coffee                 83.2      61.7
Tea                    13.7      10.3
Exports of Goods * Services            166     150    141    150    172         Casaiterite            13.0        9.6
of wblhb:  nerch-adl-e f.o.b.       (134)   (113)  (109)  (124)  (141)        Wolfram                 3.8        2.8
leports of Goods 4 Services           -323    -332   -338   -307   -309         Vyrethruu               1.1        0.8
Of wbhIb: _rcba-ndia  f.o.b.    (-196)  (-207) (-215) (-190) (-184)           Clnchona                1.4        1.0
Net Transfer.                           -3      -2     -1      -5       5       Otbhr                  18.6       13.8
Not Factor Income                        5      12     -2      -S     -4                              134.6      ThTI
Corrent Account Balance               -155    -168   -198   -170   -136         EXTERNAL DEET. DECEMBER 31, 1983
Official Grante  106                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~USS Min.
Official Grants                        106     106    105    112    101         Public Debt, incl.guarantee-  220.0
Private Direct  vert_mnt                17      19     21      11     10        Won-Guar.nteed Prlvate Debt
tLS offlical (not)                      33      25      25     36     39        Total Outtcandlg A Dimbursed
Otebr Capital                           12      17      4      -8      -
Chants In Resere                       -13       1     43      19   -14         MET DENT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1984 3/
International Reserves                 165     166    123    104    li1 S
Reserves ac   month. of imports        6.1     6.0    4.3    4.0    4.5         Publlc Debt, incl.guarateed 3.5
of goods and of service.                                                      Wan-Guaranteed Prlvate Debt   -
Petroleum Imports4/                   28.7    43.2   46.0   51.0   51.9         Total Outetandlng * Disbursed
Petroleum Exports
RATE OF KIcRAUGE                                                                 IDA LENDINC  MARCH 31, 1985 (USSMIn.)
Annual             End                                                               IDA
Averages           p-riod                            Outstanding S Dlsbursed         12 3
1974-end Ag  1983       Feb. 1985                         Undleburued                     104.9
OucttandIng including
USS 1.00 - RvW              92.84               106.5                              Undisbureed                  247.2
IWv  1.00 - USS              0.011                0.009
RWF 1.00 - SDR                                    0.010
SDR 1.00 - ivF                ..                102.71
I/ Includes Money and Quasi Money
Zt Provisional
3/ Debt Service net of 12terest earned on foreign exchange reserves
as a percentage of Exports of Coods and Non-Factor Services.
*/ Crude Derivatives
. not available
oct applicable



- 28 -
Pap. 1 of 2
7  SMLTAB C7 BAN CF  0OATY   fl MOM
A. State   of MA cmd4t
(a of    0zr 30, 1985)
Amount WM mudiio
Cedit No.    Fscal Year   Borrcwer                   Pbrp.e                  (law aulatioiu)
_ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _       ~~~~~~IM   Uzdiisbw umd
(Ten credits bave bee fuly dlsbured)l/                                       77.49
SR37 2/ 3/  1979           Rwzana      MIL Agdriluwal. & Livm>:k
lve1opuux                           8.75      2.65
103-EW         1980                     Intepted lorestry & Livestodr
Dlvelopit                           21.00     2.64
1057-W         1981                                                           7.50      5.27
112ry-W     1981                        f                                  15.00     5.75
1217L          1982                       c    al Asedstne                   5.00      3.54
1250-          198                      Fifth Eligbiy                        25.90    12.45
1263-W         1                        Secod Fdon                            10.00      .65
1283-N          982 IPe II lb                                                16.30      7.91
1349-RW  13               M) I                                 7.00     4.18
1345-N         193                      Water Supply                         13.00      6.24
142D-I         1984                     bW  II/Hydraelectric                  15.00    11.64
1495-N         L984                     Per                                   9.00      8.48
154i-NI 4/    M1985            -        Aziltml r1 eai                       11.50  1'.50
1565-NI 4/     1985                         co' Assistu    II                 4.80      4.80
Toal                          247.24    95.70
of thich br bee repaid             1.3
Total iE outstmxM*            245.91
Awut sold            3.40
of whidh  r buan repaid 3.40
Total nw beld by ID           245.91
Tol uidisbuued                          95.70
I/      a b  receie no Bazk loan.
he mA, credit 1 am       tbya aESpedaActionae dit of US1.7 uW4z,u.
nl          a RRAD  QIt   -atition of 4.4 udllon
41 Nbt yf fectve.



-29 -
Pap 2 of 2
B. Statt of IPC luvestmma In
(as of higt 31, 1985)
FC's adatlzg inveshht I Randa cauise te t   icm  nsesnt prtviasly Xe in
Soitbli 8an its prdsceusor caq.suLs, SW art 1BINE.  1tai1s are m folls.
Total
Invescmo    Fiscal              Type of                             &d by
Number      Year    Ol iw   &sins   f             LomI   Total      3FC   Khisbrmed
337-W         1975     Sozitbe)Taa process-  -     054   0.54        0.24
jI asxi
470-i         1979     Sorwvtbi)            0.06 a/ 0.23   0.29       0.13
7H64U         198      SocwatM)              -      0.25   0.25        -      0.25
Total                         0.06    1.02   1.08       0.37    0.25
a/ Caes in 7/84.



- 30 -
Annex III
RWANDA
SUPPLMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
FAMILY HEALTH
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification                    November, 1983
(b)  Project Preparation               April, 1985
(c)  Appraisal Mission                 August, 1985
(d) Negotiations                       February, 1986
(e) Planned Date for
Credit Effectiveness            August, 1986
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
Jointly with the Association, the Government would annually review the
health sector investment program - including the proposed project budget
- not less than three months before the start of Government's fiscal year
(para. 38).
Section III: Special Conditions
* MOHSA would present to the Association by April 30, 1987, the findings of
the health financing study (para. 34).
* By December 31, 1986, Government would provide to the Association the
locations of five health centers proposed for rehabilitation during the
third year of the project (para. 42).
a A full-time MCH Division Chief would be appointed by MDHSA by September
30, 1986 (para. 43).
* MOHSA would appoint by December 31, 1986, an additional training
specialist (para. 45).
* By December 31, 1987, MOHSA would present, for approval by IDA, its
proposal to improve its health information system (para. 45).
* By December 31, 1987, MOHSA and MINEPRISEC would agree upon a career path
for nurses aides (para. 48).
Section IV: Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) MOHSA will appoint a project coordinator, architect and an accountant with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA (para. 51); and
(b) Opening of a special account (para. 58).



- 31 -
Annex IV
Procurement arrangements are summarized below:
(US$ Million)
Project Eleont                         ICB       ICB       other      N.A.    Total
cot
1. Civil works                         1.6       4.3        0.4               6.3
(1.6)    (4.3)      (0.4)             (6.3)
2. Fumniture and EWipent               0.3       0.4        0.3               1.0
(0.2)    (0.3)      (0.2)             (0.7)
3. Vehicles                                      0.3                          0.3
(0.3)                       (0.3)
4. Medical Supplies                    0.4                                    0.4
(0.4)                                 (0.4)
5. Tmchnical Assistance                                              1.9      1.9
(1.2)    (1.2)
6. Training/lleowships/Studies                              1.0               1.0
(1.0)            (1.0)
7. Eligile Operating CDsts                                           3.2      3.2
(0.5)    (0.5)
8. Refumding PPF                                                     0.4      0.4
(0.4)    (0.4)
TOTAL                              2.3       5.0        1.7      5.5      14.5
(2.2)     (4.9)       (1.6)    (2.1)    (10.8)
btt: PnAmts in pareathesis represent IDA financing.



IBRD 19456
k                      ~~~~RWANOA                                             /UAD
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT                                                                                     U G D A                             O
PROJET SANTE FAMILIALE
POPULATiON DENSITY                                                                                                                                                           /i                           I//AT A       N N I A
~   AOl-TA  AOINISTArIORgpJfl              ZAIRE                       ' (\
0T-IOD      -1       rnro-------------- t                                                                   .            +\                                       >        . 6     r 
-LIES   T                                                       --   ---
* NATINAL CAPI,TAL4 
CLITF.ITL'LI At PMsrLN rTACS  r          ETrT/                                                                               i                                                                               11  A N 
CAREULNAT ROUNOARIRSB U R U N D I
0011?) 010 ,PeflCruRe      P



