Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USiE ONLY
Report No.13136
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1678-RW)
JUNE 13, 1994
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(period average)
Currency Unit - Rwanda Franc (RwF)
1985: US$1.00                      RwF 101.26
1986: US$1.00         =            RwF 87.64
1987: US$1.00         =            RwF 79.69
1988: US$1.00         =            RwF 76.45
1989: US$1.00                      RwF 79.98
1990: US$1.00                      RwF 82.60
1991: US$1.00                      RwF 125.14
1992: US$1.00                      RwF 132.04
1993: US$1.00                      RwF 143.24
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DFCS                 -      Direction de Financement et de Constructions Scolaires
DHS                  -      Demographic and Health Survey
FP                   -      Family Planning
GTZ                  -      Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusamnmenarbeit (German
Cooperation Agency)
HC                   -      Health Center(s)
IEC                  -      Information, Education and Communication
MCH                  -      Maternal and Child Health
MOHSA                -      Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
(in French: MINISAPASO)
MINEPRISEC           -      Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education
MINIFIN              -      Ministry of Finance
MINISUPRES           -      Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
NC                   -      Nutrition Center(s)
ONAPO                -      Office National de la Population
USAID                -      United States Agency for International Development
WHIO                 -      World Health Organization
MEASURES
Metric              British/US Equivalent
I meter                     3.3 feet
I kilometer                0.62 mile
I square kilometer (km2)   0.39 square miles (sq.mi.)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 13, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Rwanda
Family Health Project (Credit 1678-RU)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Rwanda-Family Health Project (Credit
1678-RW) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
This project aimed to improve the maternal and child health program by incorporating family
planning and nutrition activities into primary health care, providing training to upgrade staff, and
strengthening the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs and the National
Office of Population. During the first several years, implementation was very slow, among other
reasons because of personnel problems, unfamiliarity with Bank procedures, reluctance to use
technical assistance, and shortage of counterpart funds. These problems were eventually resolved and
most inputs completed by mid 1993, a year and a half later than planned.
Although the nutrition component was ignored and the population policy component was
unsatisfactory, the outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory because the main
objective -improving maternal and child health and adding family planning services to the primary
health package -was achieved. However, its institutional development impact is rated as modest, and
sustainability of results achieved as unlikely.
The PCR provides an adequate description of events but is weak on analysis.
No audit is planned at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1678-RW)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  ................................................                             i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                 .................       ...................
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ............
A. PROJECT IDENTITY   ..
B. BACKGROUND   . .
C.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION.                                        2
Project Objectives.. 2
Project Description.                                                   2
D.  PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION.                                          3
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.                                                    4
Credit Effectiveness and Project Star-up.                              4
Implementation Schedule.                                               5
Procurement.                                                           7
Project Costs.. 7
Disbursements and Credit Allocation.                                   7
F. PROJECT RESULTS.                                                           8
Project Objectives and Physical Results..   8
Institutional Strengthening and Human Resources Development..   8
Population Policy.                                                     9
Impact of Project.                                                     9
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY.                                                    9
H. BANK PERFORMANCE.                                                          9
I.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE .10
J.  PROJECT RELATIONSHIP .11
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents rnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
(continued)
Page No.
K.     CONSULTING SERVICES                                                       11............................   1
L.     PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA                                            11................   1
M.    CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED                     1................   11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .13
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION .15
1.     Related IDA Credits .................................   15
2. Project Timetable .16
3.  Credit Disbursements.                                                        16
4.  Project Implementation.                                                      17
5.  Project Costs and Financing.                                                 18
6. Project Results.                                                              19
7.  Status of Covenants.                                                        20
8.     Use of Bank Resources. ..............................   22



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1678-RW)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Family Health Project in Rwanda,
for which Credit 1678-RW in the amount of SDR 9.8 million was approved on April 1, 1986 and
signed on May 23, 1986. The credit became effective on February 27, 1987 and was closed on
December 31, 1993, about one and a half years behind schedule. The credit was fully disbursed
at the closing date of December 31, 1993.
The PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resources Operations Division of
the South-Central and Indian Ocean Department (AF3PH). There was no completion mission.
The Bank sent the Borrower Parts I and III with the request to prepare Part II which was received
on December 21, 1993.
The PCR is based on the President's Report, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development
Credit Agreement, reports by and correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal
Bank memoranda and interviews with Bank staff who have been associated with the project.






- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1678-RW)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i.    The main objective of the Project was to improve maternal and child health with
particular emphasis on family planning within the national strategy for primary health care.
Specific objectives were to: (a) make family planning services available in all health facilities
as part of the maternal and child health program; (b) improve the quality and increase the
coverage of maternal and child health services; (c) target nutrition activities and integrate them
into maternal and child health services; (d) strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry
of Health and Social Affairs (MOHSA) at the central and regional levels; (e) increase the output
and improve the quality of basic paramedical training programs; and (f) improve the National
Office of Population's (ONAPO) data base for population and policy formulation (paragraph 6).
Implementation Experience
ii.    The overall implementation results of this project are good. The SAR was optimistic in
its implementation plans and in forecasting project completion and the credit fully disbursed in
five and a half years. This forecast did not take into consideration the fact that MOHSA was a
first time borrower unfamiliar with Bank procedures and the PHN disbursement profile of nine
and a half years. The credit was disbursed in seven years which is considered good taking into
account the project's extremely slow-start up and the 1991-1993 civil war which delayed certain
project activities. During the first four years (1986-1990), Project implementation was sluggish.
The slow start was mainly due to high turnover of project coordinators, weaknesses in
institutional capabilities, slow decision making by MOHSA, cumbersome administrative
procedures, unfamiliarity and/or poor compliance with Bank procedures, failure to follow
recommendations of Bank supervision missions, and reluctance to resort to technical assistance.
By mid-1990, only 25% of the credit had been disbursed. At the mid-term review, the
Government and the Bank redefined the project's scope and priorities, and agreed upon a detailed
implementation plan and the staffing of an autonomous project unit. By that time, MOHSA was
highly committed to speeding up project implementation, more familiar with Bank procedures,
and a competent project coordinator was in place. The new coordinator understood the need to
use technical assistance and recruited an international consulting firm to help DFCS prepare
bidding documents for civil works and equipment. MOHSA did a good job in implementing the
training sub-components and its own institutional strengthening. However, it did not focus much
on the project's nutrition aspects. ONAPO's contribution to the implementation of the Population
Policy component has not been satisfactory. Regarding counterpart funding, only 30% of the
agreed upon estimates were allocated to the project. This is in part due to the 1991-1993 civil
war which caused military expenditures to rise to 7% of GDP which had a negative impact on



- iii -
developmental expenditures. The project was completed in mid-1993 (paragraphs 11 to 20, and
28).
Results
iii.    The Project was successful in meeting its main objective to improve maternal and child
health with particular emphasis on family planning. It contributed to the implementation of the
national strategy for primary health care by bringing about a better integration of family planning
services into the public health system. Most of the physical targets were exceeded. The
contraceptive prevalence rate reached 13%, compared to an appraisal estimate of 10%. MOHSA
was strengthened. The training sub-component contributed to the training of 1,320 health
workers (95 % of SAR estimate) and thus helped alleviate the acute shortage of paramedical
personnel. In summary, the Project had a significant impact on the quality and coverage of
MCH/FP services in Rwanda.  Through this project, MOHSA acquired a better grasp and
understanding of the importance of health financing and management issues. Finally, MOHSA
learned how to manage a Bank-financed project (paragraphs 21 to 25).
Sustainability
iv.    Rwanda's health sector has always been heavily dependent on foreign assistance, even
for recurrent expenditures. The project's institutional strengthening and the work on health
financing options which was developed during the project should, in the long-term, help MOHSA
sustain its MCH/FP program efforts, it is likely that foreign assistance will continue to be needed
to enable the Government to meet the increasing demand for MCH/FP services. This assistance
will in part be needed due to the current population growth at 3.1 % per year. The sustainability
of this Project is therefore uncertain (Paragraphs 26 and 27).
Findings and Lessons Learned
v.     Despite implementation delays and shortcomings of some project components, the Family
Health Project was successful. It had a positive impact on the delivery of MCH/FP services in
Rwanda. Both the Bank's and the Government's overall performance was satisfactory. The
lessons to be learned from the problems encountered during project implementation are: (a)
project staff need to be highly competent and motivated; (b) the ministry concerned should not
interfere in the day-to-day management of the project; (c) technical assistance is necessary to
assist in programming/monitoring until local expertise is developed; and (d) project personnel
need to be adequately trained in Bank procedures, mainly procurement. Since the MOHSA was
a first time borrower, the qualifications and number of persomel required should not have been
underestimated. The Project also demonstrated that a lot of time is required to formulate realistic
and meaningful proposals on additional sources of financing and resource mobilization in the
sector. This increased knowledge of health financing will be instrumental in the preparation of
future operations (paragraphs 34 and 35).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1678-RW)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT IDENTITY
Name                       Family Health Project
Credit Number              1678-RW
RVP Unit                   Africa Region
Country                    Rwanda
Sector                     Human Resources
Sub-Sector                 Health and Family Planning
B. BACKGROUND
1.    Rwanda's salient characteristics include its small size; an annual population growth rate
of 3.7% (ranking among the highest in Africa); a population density about 500 per square km
of arable land (ranking among the highest in the world); mountainous terrains and high average
altitude; a landlocked position; lack of natural resources, including a serious shortage of arable
land; underdeveloped physical and institutional infrastructure; and a very low level of
development.
2.    At the time of project appraisal, social and economic indicators included per capita
income of about US$270 (1983), among the lowest in the world, average life expectancy of
47 years, adult literacy rate of 375, and an infant mortality rate of 115-125 per 1,000. As in
most sub-Saharan African countries, health conditions were poor. Mothers and young children
accounted for the bulk of Rwanda's morbidity and mortality cases. Many of the deaths could
have been prevented with an effective MCH/FP/Nutrition program. Family planning services
were available on a very limited scale; according to the 1983 National Fertility Survey (NFS),
contraceptive prevalence for modern methods was estimated at 0.9% of women ages 15-45 years
who were in union, not pregnant and fertile.
3.    The network of hospitals, Health Centers (HCs) and dispensaries was evenly distributed
throughout the country and health coverage was high by African standards (about 50% of the
population lived within 5 km of a health facility). A wide-scale expansion of the service network
was therefore not required, but there was a need to upgrade health facilities in selected locations.
There were shortages of staff, particularly for enrolled nurses and nurses aides, and of essential
drugs. The effectiveness of the health care system was also affected by insufficient integration
of Maternal and Child Health (MCH) and Family Planning (FP) services, and of nutrition
activities.



- 2 -
4.     Major population growth was inevitable, and the increasing pressure that it would bring
on the country's social and economic systems made the need for large-scale efforts to reduce
fertility urgent. In order to increase the contraceptive prevalence rate and to meet the current and
increasing demand for FP services, the government adopted a strategy of integrated MCH and
FP service delivery and of upgrading primary health care facilities. The government also took
steps to strengthen the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (MOHSA).
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPITION
Project Objectives
5.     The main objective of the Project was to improve maternal and child health with
particular emphasis on family planning within the national strategy for primary health care.
Specific objectives were to: (a) make family planning services available in all health facilities as
part of the maternal and child health program; (b) improve the quality and increase the coverage
of maternal and child health services; (c) integrate nutrition activities into regular MCH activities
at the health center level and target nutrition programs towards "at risk" families; (d) strengthen
the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (MOHSA) at the central and
regional levels; (e) increase the output and improve the quality of basic paramedical training
programs; and (f) improve the National Office of Population's (ONAPO) data base for population
and policy formulation.
Project Description
6.     The project consisted of the following components:
(a)    Strengthening of Family Health Services. The Project was to support the
development of a restructured MCH program which included nutrition activities
and, most importantly, made FP services available nationwide. It was to achieve
this through: (i) the implementation of a MCH/FP/Nutrition in-service training
program for about 1,400 health center staff, including short and long-term
foreign consultancies for curriculum development, training of trainers and
operating costs; (ii) the provision of medical supplies; and (iii) the upgrading and
re-equipment of 30 health centers to strengthen the family health care
infrastructure.
(b)    Institutional Strengthening of MOHSA.  To implement effectively the
restructured MCH program, MOHSA was to be strengthened, both at the central
and regional levels. At the central level, the MCH, Training, and Studies and
Evaluation divisions were to be provided with equipment and logistical support
to better manage, evaluate and supervise field activities and with a long-term
MCH/FP adviser. Improvements of the health information system through
technical assistance and equipment were to strengthen the planning capabilities
of MOHSA. At the regional level, the decentralization process initiated by
MOHSA was to be supported by: (i) training of regional teams to implement an
in-service training program; (ii) strengthening the management and supervision
capacity of the regional staff by providing vehicles, supplies, equipment,
incremental operating costs and short-term foreign consultancies; and
(iii) building eight MOHSA/ONAPO regional offices.



-3-
(c)    Human Resources Development. Because paramedical personnel were scarce,
the project was to: (i) provide pre-service training and deployment of about 200
nurses aides (A4) to remedy the serious shortage of auxiliary staff in health
centers; and (ii) finance the construction of two new A3-nursing schools with an
estimated capacity of about 120 students each. The Ministry of Education was
to be responsible for staffing and managing the nursing schools. Technical
assistance was provided to improve teaching and curriculum development in the
A3 schools.
(d)    Population Policy. The Project provided direct support to ONAPO to strengthen
its capacity to formulate and coordinate population policies by supporting two
key operational research studies. The studies were to focus on: (i) factors
influencing the acceptance and continuation of contraceptive use; and
(ii) maternal and under-five mortality.
(e)    Project Management.  The Project was to strengthen MOHSA  project
management capability by financing 48 staff-months of consultant architectural
assistance for the project coordination office, incremental salaries for a project
coordinator, an accountant and a support staff as well as equipment and
incremental operating costs.
D. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
7.     The project was well prepared. The design of the project was the result of a successful
cooperative effort between the Government and the Bank which began during a population, health
and nutrition sector mission in June 1983. In November 1983, an agreement was reached on the
outline of the project and a PPF advance of US$440,000 was approved shortly thereafter. Two
years elapsed between identification and appraisal because the MOHSA initially wanted to prepare
the project without external technical assistance, but at that time lacked the technical expertise
in certain areas. Project preparation accelerated when four international consultants were
recruited in the areas of family planning, architecture, nutrition, and management. At the
technical level, the Government demonstrated ownership for the project as a local counterpart
team was created within MOHSA. The consultants and the MOHSA's team prepared a project
document. The document was extensively referred to during the appraisal and in the preparation
of the SAR.  It was occasionally referred to during project implementation.  The delays
encountered during project preparation did have a positive impact on the project's overall scope
and objectives. The consulting team and Bank staff recognized the need to change the project's
scope from a "hardware" (rehabilitation, equipment purchases, etc.) to a "software" project that
would focus on the delivery of comprehensive family health services. Regarding the family
planning component, virtually no ownership was demonstrated, from ONAPO during project
preparation. This situation had a negative impact on the implementation of the population
studies.
8.    In part as a result of this dialogue between Government and Bank staff during project
preparation, the health sector was reorganized. This dialogue also resulted in the development
of an overall strategy for implementing an integrated MCH/FP/Nutrition program responsive to
the country's needs which brought about the project's final orientation. The former Ministry of
Social Affairs and Ministry of Health were merged to form the Ministry of Health and Social
Affairs (MOHSA).  Three technical divisions were created within MOHSA's technical
directorate, namely: a MCH/FP division (including a family planning bureau and a nutrition



- 4 -
bureau), a Studies and Evaluation division, and a Training division (for basic and in-service
training). In addition, decentralization of health services management to the regional level was
initiated, and with WHO's support, MOHSA started a comprehensive health financing study to
analyze trends in health expenditures, identify sources of financing and review opportunities for
additional resource mobilization in the sector. Finally, the merger of the Ministry of Social
Affairs (which included ONAPO) with the Ministry of Health brought under the umbrella of
MOHSA the strong cadre of ONAPO's specialist staff and managers who could now be used to
make a major contribution to the implementation of a national family planning program.
ONAPO's mandate was to carry out educational and informational programs, research and
evaluation, staff training, and program development in the areas of population and family
planning. Actual delivery of FP services was to be undertaken by MOHSA field staff, acting
under the technical guidance of ONAPO's regional teams. Also the ONAPO teams were to carry
out motivational programs designed by the ONAPO central office. All those government actions
set the stage for the implementation of the Family Health Project.
9.     The Project was to be managed by three separate entities: MOHSA, ONAPO (which is
administratively under MOHSA's umbrella, but operates as a parastatal agency) and the DFCS
(which is the architectural unit of the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education). MOHSA
was responsible for implementing: (a) in-service training of paramedical personnel and nursing
aides pre-service training (Training division); (b) PHC infrastructure rehabilitation program
(Studies and Evaluation division); (c) integration of project activities with the ongoing MCH
program, including FP and nutrition activities (MCH division); (d) overall regional institutional
strengthening (Secretary General); and (e) monitoring overall project implementation and progress
(Studies and Evaluation division). ONAPO was in charge of implementing two policy population
studies as well as assisting in implementing FP activities, and DFCS was responsible for the
construction of two new nursing schools and the training of teachers. A Project Coordinating
Committee chaired by the MOHSA Secretary General, and consisting of ONAPO's director,
along with officials from the Presidency and the Ministries of Finance, Planning and Primary and
Secondary Education (DFCS), was responsible for overall project coordination. MOHSA's
project management capability was to be strengthened by the appointment of a project
coordinator, an accountant, an architect and support staff. The project coordinator would report
directly to the Minister of Health. It was agreed during negotiations that MOHSA would appoint
a MCH division chief and an additional training specialist in the Training division. A long-term
MCH/FP expert would also be recruited under WHO contract to assist in the implementation of
the Family Health program. Technical assistance would also be provided for pre-service and in-
service training, and in health statistics.
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Credit EffectivenDs and Project Start-up
10.   The credit was approved on April 1, 1986, and signed on May 23, 1986. Additional
conditions of effectiveness included the appointments of key staff: a project coordinator, an
accountant and an architect, who were appointed in August 1985, June 1986 and November 1986,
respectively. The recruitment of a procurement specialist even though necessary for a first time
borrower such as MOHSA was not recommended by the project preparation team. The absence
of this type of expertise contributed significantly to implementation delays for the civil works as
well as for equipment purchases. The Development Credit Agreement was approved by
government in September 12, 1986 and by the National Development Council in February 6,
1987 and the law ratifying the agreement was signed on February 18, 1987 and published in the



Official Gazette on March 15, 1987. As a result, the Credit became effective only on February
27, 1987, a delay of about five months from the originally planned date.
11.   The delay in credit effectiveness, however, did not affect project start-up.  Before
effectiveness, the Borrower took initial steps to implement the Project. It provided the locations
of the five unidentified health centers, signed a contract with the consulting firm for the civil
works, and started to define the training program and identify candidates for fellowships and
study tours.
Implementation Schedule
12.   The appraisal mission was optimistic when preparing the implementation plans and
forecasting that the project would be fully disbursed and completed in five and a half years (the
original completion date was December 31, 1991). This forecast did not take into consideration
the PHN disbursement profile of nine and a half years and the fact that MOHSA was a first time
borrower. In addition, no recruitment of international technical assistance was envisaged to assist
in project implementation. The project was fully disbursed in seven years which is considered
a success taking into account the slow start-up period and the 1991-1993 war which also delayed
certain project activities (mainly the rehabilitation of health centers and nursing schools in the
northem part of the country). Project implementation can clearly be divided into two phases,
before and after the 1990 turnaround. Between 1986 and mid-1990, disbursements and
implementation were sluggish. Based on the SAR's forecasts, the health centers, regional offices,
and nursing schools were scheduled to become operational between the end of 1988 and the
beginning of 1990. The implementation of other project elements (e.g. training, family planning,
and nutrition) was supposed to be well advanced between the second and third year of project
implementation with the final outputs materializing towards the end of the project. However, by
the end of 1989 (mid-term review), the project had accomplished very little, and only about 20%
of the credit had been disbursed. The 1990 turnaround occurred, following a mid-term review
(when only 25% of the credit had been disbursed compared to 77% forecasted in the SAR).
During that time, the Government and the Bank redefined the project's priorities as well as the
scope and orientation of the institutional strengthening component. It was decided, for instance,
that the project would not focus on family planning activities as there was a free standing IDA-
financed population project under preparation.  An agreement was reached upon a detailed
implementation plan and the staffing of an autonomous project unit. The tumaround can also
be attributed to Bank staff having spent 31.4 SW in FY90 for the supervision of this project.
Also by 1990, a competent project coordinator was in place who understood the need to recruit
technical assistance to assist in the preparation of the bidding documents for the civil works and
equipment. With the exception of a few items (mainly the completion of three health centers and
one of the two nursing schools in the northern part of the country) which could not be completed
due to lack of fluxds when the war ended, the project was completed in mid-1993.
13.   As a result of the mid-term review's recommendations, a project unit was created within
MOHSA to coordinate between ONAPO, DFCS, and the MOHSA divisions. This unit was
responsible for all implementation related matters and reported to the Minister of Health. This
unit was headed by a project coordinator who was assisted by a financial manager, an accountant,
two architects (responsible for the civil works in five prefectures each) and a training specialist.
The high turnover of project coordinators is one of the key factors responsible for the slow start
of project activities. When the last one came on board in 1990, the unit proved to be effective
in speeding up project implementation as MOHSA had given it sufficient autonomy. Furthermore,
the Minister had delegated the overall follow-up of the project to the Director General of Health.



- 6 -
He in turn also facilitated the implementation of this project and provided technical expertise on
health related issues and was MOHSA's key interlocutor on health financing issues.
14.   The performance of MOHSA and DFCS has been particularly bad for the implementation
of the infrastructure part of the Project. Agreements had been reached at appraisal between the
Bank and Government on the nature of the upgrading/rehabilitation to be done for the health
centers. However, during the preparation of detailed plans, MOHSA wanted to increase the size
of those centers which, together with the addition of investments not previously considered for
water supply and electricity, resulted in a sizeable increase in costs. Government kept asking for
additional financing which was not available. MOHSA took advantage of the turnover of Bank
staff task managers (five in seven years) to keep pushing this request through. Finally, bidding
for the first two lots took place only at the end of 1988, and for the remaining lots in 1990. The
Project upgraded or rehabilitated 22 health centers (instead of 30 included in the project
description) and six regional offices (instead of eight). Due to the added features for the health
centers, the thirteen housing units for MOHSA were dropped from the Project. Among the 22
health centers, 19 were fully completed and three in the northern part of the country have only
been completed at 85% because of the war. Regarding water supply, only four health centers
benefited from the necessary investments. The remaining 18 will be equipped with financing
provided by Belgian aid. The construction of the two new nursing schools was also considerably
delayed. The school in Kaduha became operational in the Fall of 1992 and 180 students were
enrolled. The other school in Byumba is only 90% complete because of the war which
contributed significantly to the construction delays. This school was also looted during the war
period. The training of teachers by MINEPRISEC and MINISUPRES occurred in parallel with
the school construction.
15.   MOHSA did a good job in implementing the training sub-components of the Project. On
the basis of the newly defined MCF/FP strategy, curricula were developed and 100 trainers
(10 per health region) were trained.  Despite the delays in appointing additional training
specialists, the number of health center staff retrained was 1,320, compared to an appraisal
estimate of 1400, and the number of additional A-4 nurses trained and deployed was 300,
compared to an appraisal estimate of 200. Two hundred graduates are currently seeking
employment and 525 are currently enrolled in the training program. This training was part of
the component for strengthening family health services. Nutrition activities, which were also part
of that component, were not implemented. The five-year nutrition program which was finally
developed will be carried out under the Food Security and Social Action Project (Cr. 2388-RW).
The component for the institutional strengthening of MOHSA was carried out, with the exception
of the improvements of the health information system (HIS) (computers and training were
provided for the HIS and a timetable for implementation is ready). Also, the number of regional
offices was reduced from eight to six due to the fact that GTZ financed the remaining two.
16.   Regarding the population policy, which was ONAPO's responsibility, very little was done
under the Project. Field surveys were carried out in September/October 1989 for the study of
factors influencing the acceptance and continuation of contraceptive use, but the results have only
been partially processed. During the last three supervision missions, the Bank asked the project
coordinator to follow up to see if a draft of this study could be obtained. A report was received
at the time of project closing (four-year delay) which is in part due to some problems that
ONAPO was having with the Bank on managerial questions related to the on-going Population
Project. The second study, on maternal and under-five mortality, was incorporated in the
USAID-funded Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) which was carried out in 1991. The



-7-
project staff were also not committed to this component as they did not perceive it as a top
priority.
Procurement
17.   Poor knowledge of and/or compliance with Bank procurement procedures delayed project
implementation, particularly for civil works, but there were also problems with the procurement
of vehicles. In the absence of standard bidding documents to be given to MOHSA and DFCS,
the preparation of bidding documents for specific works turned out to be a painful exercise.
Consultant/architects participated in supervision missions. However, due to the changes in
project staff, procurement activities remained at a standstill between supervision missions. As
previously stated, the project had a design flaw as it did not forecast the need for the recruitment
of a procurement specialist that should have been recruited at the same time as other key project
staff as a condition of credit effectiveness. Even in cases where Bank staff explained the Bank
requirements, as for the two nursing schools, the procurement process remained at a standstill
because DFCS did not seem (or wish) to understand what was required to bring the documents
up to Bank standards. The DFCS was also in charge of school constructions for the Third
Education Project and the same types of problems were also occurring. One construction contract
for the health centers had to be cancelled because of poor performance by the contractor, which
might have been avoided by a more careful assessment of this contractor's qualifications and
capabilities before contract award. Moreover, it seems that he had not been required to furnish
any security for the advance payment that he received and it is not clear whether the Project was
able to recover that money from the performance security (bank guarantee).
Project Costs
18.   Project accounts have been kept only by disbursement categories of the IDA credit with
all expenditures summarized in a ledger. There is little information available in the files on the
actual contribution by WHO and the Government. However, one of the progress reports refers
to the fact that government counterpart funding has been about 33% of the amount estimated at
appraisal. This is mainly a result of the three-year civil war which squeezed development
expenditures while military expenditures reached 7% of GDP by the end of project
implementation. In any event, there is no informnation on the actual cost of each project
component which could be compared with the estimate included in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR). Regarding the IDA credit, variations between 1985 and 1993 in exchange rate between
SDRs and US dollars in effect increased the available financing expressed in US dollars. Actual
disbursements amounted to US$13.5 million compared to an appraisal estimate of US$ 10.8
million (a 25% increase). Assuming that the contribution by WHO and government has been
much less than the US$3.6 million estimated at appraisal, (say, of the order of US$1 million
only), total project costs would be the same as the appraisal estimate of US$14.5 million, but for
a somewhat reduced project.
Disbursements and Credit Allocation
19.   The cumulative estimated and actual disbursements of Credit 1678 - RW are given in
table 3 of Part III. The five and a half-year disbursement forecast of the SAR was unrealistic
taking into account the fact that MOHSA was a first time borrower and that the Bank wide PHN
disbursement profile was nine and a half years. At the mid-term review, only about 20% of the
credit had been disbursed. Once the project execution gained momentum in 1990 (due to the
recruitment of competent project staff, the high emphasis placed by the Bank on supervising the



-8-
project, and the willingness to resort to technical assistance for procurement issues) it was
considered prudent to increase the authorized allocation of the special account from US$ 600,000
to US$ 1,000,000, and the additional deposit was made in February 1991. Disbursements then
increased very rapidly, and by the closing date, because of an increase in the value of the SDR
in dollars, actual disbursements in dollars represented 125% of the total amount estimated at
appraisal. The allocation of the proceeds of the credit was amended twice to reflect the changes
in financing requirements.  Disbursements of the IDA credit were more than estimated at
appraisal for civil works, and furniture, equipment, medical supplies and vehicles, and about the
same for the other categories. The original closing date was June 30, 1992, but the credit was
closed on December 31, 1993 after two extensions. The credit was fully disbursed.
F. PROJECT RESULTS
Project Objectives and Physical Results
20.    The Project was successful in meeting its main objective to improve maternal and child
health with particular emphasis on family planning.  The Project brought about  a better
integration of family planning services into the health system. However, the nutrition aspects
were neglected. As shown in Table 6 of Part III, most of the performance indicators in the SAR
were exceeded. However, it should be noted that they were not systematically monitored during
project supervision and were not included in the progress reports. Physical targets of the Project
were exceeded. A recently undertaken Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) indicates a
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate of 13%, compared to an appraisal estimate of 10%. Important
gains were also made in child health monitoring, deliveries in health facilities, and prenatal care.
MCH/FP services benefitted greatly from the training programs, medical supplies, the health
center standard manual, and supervision activities financed under the Project.
Institutional Strengthening and Human Resources Development
21.    The project has been generally successful in its objective to strengthen MOHSA's
administrative capacity to implement the MCH/FP program. Support provided under the project
with regard to training, construction, equipment and logistics brought about improvements were
made at all levels - central, regional and field - despite the fact that MOHSA did not benefit
as much as was expected from the services of a long-term MCH/FP adviser. However the
development of a better health data base, which was expected to improve decision-making in key
areas of resource allocation and evaluation of program effectiveness, did not take place. One of
the dated covenants was that MOHSA would submit, by December 31, 1987, a proposal to
improve its statistical health information system. Attempts were made to introduce an improved
system, on a pilot basis in a few regions, then nationwide, but they were not very successful
(currently MOHSA is exploring other sources of financing). Regarding MOHSA's computerized
management information system (MIS), in 1991, a consultant prepared a program and timetable
in four phases for the installation of a MIS. This MIS could not be implemented under the
project due to lack of funds, because it entailed a large purchase of computer equipment and
international technical assistance. It was agreed to implement the first phase of the MIS under
this project. However, some of the equipment is not being utilized to its fullest capacity within
MOHSA at present.
22.    One of the expected benefits of the Project was that it would assist the government in
solving one of the health system's most severe constraints - the shortage of paramedical
personnel. Despite the delays in the recruitment of additional training specialists, the output of



- 9 -
the paramedical in-service training was close to the appraisal estimate. This contributed to
improving the quality of medical staff nationwide. Many doctors and nurses in the field have
commented that the deployment of the newly trained A-4 auxiliary nurses have allowed them to
spend more time on their normal tasks as doctors and nurses. It is too early to comment on the
impact of the nursing schools for A-3 nurses which are designed to train primary health care
staff.
Population Policy
23.   The implementation of this component, which was intended to strengthen ONAPO's
capacity to formulate and coordinate population policies, has not been successful, because of the
weakness of ONAPO's research unit. Two studies were supposed to be undertaken during the
first and second years of the Project. However, ONAPO did not participate in the preparation
of the component and therefore did not feel much ownership for the component's implementation.
The first study was completed with a four-year delay (paragraph 17). The second study was not
done under the Project but as part of the USAID-financed DHS. In addition, it appeared that the
working relationships between ONAPO and MOH had been deteriorating over the past years.
The relationship between ONAPO and the Bank significantly deteriorated during the past two
years due to diverging views on managerial issues encountered while trying to launch activities
for the IDA-financed Population Project.
Impact of Project
24.    Although some components had a slow start and were completed only recently, all
indicators show that the Project already has had a significant impact on the quality and coverage
of MCH/FP services to Rwanda's population. That impact is expected to increase in the future
with the output of the nursing schools and the operational use of the technical guides and manuals
prepared under the Project.
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
25.    According to the Staff Appraisal Report, the Project's main recurrent cost was for salaries
of the additional paramedical staff trained under the Project, and other incremental operating costs
associated with supervision, and in-service training. Under the most pessimistic scenario, this
cost was estimated at only 5 % of MOHSA operating budget, and was considered affordable. It
was recognized, however, that Rwanda's health sector was heavily dependent on foreign
assistance, not only for capital investment but also for recurrent expenditures.
26.    During project implementation, while new  budgetary positions were created to
accommodate the additional paramedical staff, the govermnent contribution was less than
estimated at appraisal.  It is unlikely that significant additional financial resources could be
mobilized for the sector any time soon. Although the institutional strengthening should help
MOHSA sustain its MCH/FP program efforts, foreign assistance will continue to be needed in
order to enable government to meet the increasing demand for MCH/FP services.
H. BANK PERFORMANCE
27.   Generally, the Bank's performance has been satisfactory. Through the Family Health
Project, the Bank made a positive contribution to the integration of family planning into Rwanda's
health system and to the institutional strengthening of MOHSA. Overall, the Bank did a good



- 10 -
job at the project preparation stage by recognizing the need to change the project's orientation
and design from a "hardware" project (rehabilitation/construction, purchases of goods, etc.) to
one focused on the delivery of comprehensive MCH/FP services. The Bank devoted adequate
resources to supervision (Table 8). However, the staff turnover was high and there was excessive
reliance on consultants. One of the task managers decided to go the "extra mile" to brief the
current project coordinator in detail on Bank procedures which made him more knowledgeable
on how to go about implementing the project and more motivated. On the negative side, the task
of the Borrower has been made more difficult by the high turnover of Bank staff on the Project.
The fact that five different architects, employed as outside consultants, worked on the Project at
different times is another clear illustration of the short sightedness of the Bank's decision several
years ago that there was no need for architects in its operational divisions. This continuous
problem on the Bank's side in the last two years of project implementation was addressed through
the use of short-term consultants. Project staff were not formally trained in Bank procurement
procedures; standard bidding documents were only provided at the time of the mid-term review.
The health centers were originally overdesigned but were scaled down at appraisal. The Bank
should have been more assertive when, at the beginning of project implementation, MOHSA tried
again to get the Bank to finance over-designed health centers; a firm "NO" would have saved
everybody's time and money. This operation was instrumental in enabling the Bank to get an
insight on how the health sector operates and what are its key issues. This will be a contributing
factor in the design of better targeted future operations. The decision to bring to Washington in
1990 for a period of two weeks the current Project Coordinator to brief him thoroughly on the
way the Bank works, its procedures and what was expected of him turned out to be a critical
factor to improve project implementation.
I. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
28.    The Borrower should be given credit for the project's overall good results. Through this
project, MOHSA learned how to properly manage a Bank project.  MOHSA has done an
excellent job on training, and some of the tasks that have been considerably delayed, like the
production of technical guides and manuals, had a positive capacity building impact because they
have been carried out by Rwandese personnel. (an international expert assisted in the elaboration
of the documents). Many of the favorable project results should have materialized earlier, but
unfortunately the Project had a very slow start. This could have been overcome by more
commitment from high level staff within MOHSA, the appointment of a competent project
coordinator, and a better timing for the recruitment of international technical assistance to assist
in management and procurement issues. Implementation delays have resulted from the following
chronic problems: rapid turnover of project coordinators; weaknesses in institutional capabilities;
slow decision making; cumbersome administrative procedures; poor knowledge and/or compliance
with Bank procedures, particularly procurement; failure to follow the recommendations of Bank
missions; and reluctance to resort to technical assistance. Government has also been remiss in
not contributing its share of the financing. The deterioration in the political situation and the war
have also fueled implementation delays. Generally, ensuring proper coordination between the
project unit, MOHSA, ONAPO and DFCS turned out to be a difficult task.
29.    More specifically, MOHSA did not do a good job on the implementation of the civil
works included in the Project. MOHSA's insistence in the early years of the Project on over-
designed Health Centers was very unfortunate and later on the Project unit's architects interfered
unnecessarily with the work of the consulting firm responsible for construction supervision.
MOHSA did not take on its responsibilities on nutrition matters; its total lack of commitment in
this area is all the more regrettable given that Rwandese experts had the technical capacity to



- it -
prepare a reasonable program. The IDA-financed Rwanda Food Security and Social Action
Program (FY92) will be tackling nutritional issues that were not addressed under this project.
MOHSA's performance has been particularly poor on project accounts, which have not been
properly maintained, and the auditor's and the Bank's recommendations went unheeded three
years in a row. ONAPO's performance on the population studies has been unsatisfactory. Its
contribution to the project, the study of factors influencing the acceptance and continuation of
contraceptive use was received at the time of project closing and could not be exploited under this
project. Most covenants were complied with, but some with significant delays (Table 7).
J. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
30.   Bank relationship with MOHSA, ONAPO and DFCS on the Project has been good.
However, considerable tension occurred during project appraisal as the Bank and the Government
initially held diverging views with regard to health center design.
K. CONSULTING SERVICES
31.   The performance of the consulting firm to help with the civil works was good. The long-
tern advisor on MCH/FP under contract with WHO was not available for the planned period and
was not therefore as productive as expected. The short-term technical assistance for the health
information system and the review of the MCH/FP training curricula was satisfactory. A long-
term advisor was recruited during the last 15 months of project implementation who also
performed satisfactorily. However, the short-term technical assistance recruited under this project
had virtually no opportunity to transfer any of their skills. The international consulting firm
prepared the bidding documents for civil works and equipment but did not have a counterpart to
whom it could transfer its knowledge. The above mentioned long-term advisor that was recruited
during the last 15 months of project implementation was strongly suggested to the borrower as
a means of speeding up project implementation. The project staff did not make use of his
expertise to its full extent.
L. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
32.   The Staff Appraisal Report, the President's Report and the Development Credit
Agreement were not detailed enough for the implementation and supervision of the Project.
Working papers were prepared prior to project appraisal, but due to the change in task managers
they were not systematically used during project supervision. MOHSA did not improve its
statistical health information system. Audit reports were submitted in a timely manner during
the last three years of project implementation. Prior to that time, audit reports were received
with a delay of up to five months. The fact that updated information on project costs by
component is not available did not facilitate the preparation of this PCR. The submission of
progress reports was irregular until 1992. Since then, they have been submitted in a timely
fashion on a quarterly basis. Even though these reports were well prepared, the project team
perceived them as a Bank requirement and never used them as a management/monitoring tool for
MOHSA.
M. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
33.   Despite implementation delays and some shortcomings, the Family Health Project was
a good project. It has had a favorable impact on the delivery of MCH/FP services in Rwanda.
Generally, the performance of the government and the Bank has been satisfactory.



- 12 -
34.    According to the staff appraisal report, the main risk of the project was that
implementation could be delayed because MOHSA had limited administrative capacity and
virtually no experience or appreciation of the managerial challenge inherent to implementing a
Bank-funded project. At the project appraisal and negotiations stages, the Bank tried to convince
MOHSA to recruit long-term technical assistance to assist in procurement and overall project
management for the first three years of project implementation. However, MOHSA did not see
the need and made it clear that this was not a negotiable issue. The technical assistance could
have helped get the project off to a good start. It would have transferred knowledge on
procurement and project management issues to the project staff and MOHSA so to enable them
take over for the latter part of the project. There was a flaw in the project design as the
recruitment of a procurement specialist was not forecasted. It also appeared that during the first
four years of project implementation, MOHSA was not very committed to the project. Had these
issues been addressed earlier, project implementation during the first four years would have been
quicker. At the time of the mid-term review in 1989, only 20% of the credit had been disbursed.
By this time, MOHSA was extremely committed to making the project work. A project unit
(staffed with competent persons) was created within MOHSA for the purpose of implementing
this project and was given complete autonomy for its day-to-day management. The project unit
agreed to hire an international consulting firm to assist in the preparation of the bidding
documents for civil works and equipment. During the mid-term review, it was also suggested
to hire a long-term international health manager to assist in project implementation, a suggestion
which MOHSA also followed. On the accounting front, based on the recommendations of all
audit reports, the Bank suggested the computerization of the project accounting system as a way
of rectifying the problems linked to weak internal controls. The project unit staff did not take
this seriously, and after three years of efforts from the Bank's side, little was accomplished in
this domain. Supervision of the project by the Bank was quite intensive during some periods;
in FY90 the Bank devoted 31.4 SW to the supervision of this project which was another reason
for the project's turnaround. The skill mix during supervision missions was adequate. During
the last two years of project implementation, the project was mainly supervised by a financial
analyst; expertise on public health, nutrition, and architectural issues was sought numerous times
informally from other Bank staff at headquarters or in the field preparing and/or supervising other
PHN operations at headquarters as well as in the field.
35.    The first and most important lesson learned from this project was that when dealing with
a first time borrower, the Bank should be more realistic when preparing implementation schedules
and disbursement forecasts. In terms of project management, the lessons learned are that: (a)
project staff need to be highly competent, motivated and trained in Bank procedures; (b) MOHSA
should not be directly involved in the project's day-to-day management; and (c) technical
assistance is necessary for first time borrowers to assist in programming/monitoring and
procurement. The project also demonstrated that a lot of time is required to formulate realistic
and meaningful proposals on additional sources of financing and resource mobilization in the
sector. This knowledge of health financing and resource mobilization will be instrumental when
preparing future operations in the sector. Overall, despite the delays and shortcomings of certain
project components, the Family Health Project's overall performance was good since it had a
positive impact on the delivery of MCH/FP services in Rwanda.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1678-RW)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FRONI BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(TRANSLATION)
Rwandese Republic                               Kigali, December 21, 1993
Ministry of Health                              No. 15/4283/PSF/93
P.O. Box 84
Kigali
RWANDA
Family Health Project
Mr. David Berk
Division Chief
Population and Human Resources
Division
South Central and Indian Ocean
Department
Africa Region
Dear Mr. Berk,
Reference made to your letter dated November 22, 1993 transmitting the Project
Completion Report for Credit 1678-RW, soliciting our comments and further clarifications, I am
pleased to announce that we have found the report virtually complete.  This facilitated
considerably our task. Please find some additional comments and the Government's opinion on
the above-mentioned report in the following paragraphs.
First of all, we familiarized ourselves with the report and then distributed it to
all the concerned parties.
The various institutions and persons that worked on the project from project
identification until closing reviewed and commented on the report. They are mainly the project
coordination unit and the project's Interministerial Coordination Committee.
Comments were collected by the Family Health Project Coordination Unit and
were discussed during a meeting in which Mrs. Eileen Murray, task manager for the Family
Health Project on mission in Rwanda was present.
Comments and observations which were unanimously agreed upon were
incorporated into the draft Project Completion Report and the revised draft was made available
during Mrs. Eileen Murray's mission.



- 14 -
Throughout this process and on the basis of the revised draft, we would like to
state the following:
- We confirm the data in Part III of the Project Completion Report;
- Our comments on Part I of the report were incorporated into the draft Project Completion
Report and this draft having been enriched reflects entirely our opinion;
- The Bank's performance was noted throughout all phases of the project. The key point was
the numerous and pertinent supervision missions which were fielded at times where urgent
problem solving was necessary. Not only did these missions assist in problem solving, but they
also helped in ensuring greater sustainability which was advantageous to all concerned.
- The Ministry of Health's performance was satisfactory after the initial trial and error period
due to it being a first time borrower. The Ministry of Health became increasingly familiar with
Bank procedures which seems to indicate a good performance.
The clear management structure and the additional managerial autonomy granted to the project
team were important factors which had a positive impact on project implementation.
We believe that in the future, the setting up or the revision of certain administrative procedures
and decision making levels will be necessary in order to minimize problems related to
administrative bottlenecks, even if this will only be beneficial for future projects.
- The relationship between the World Bank and the Ministry of Health was essentially frank and
based on mutual understanding.  It is this type of relationship of a true partnership that in
essence enabled the project to be completed.
Sincerely yours,
The Minister of Health
Dr. Casimir Bizimungu
cc:    President of the Republic
Prime Minister
Minister of Plan
Minister of Finance



- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FAMIILY HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1678-RW)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related IDA Credits
Credit No./Project         Purpose            Year of      Status            Comments
Title                                  Approval
- Population        To develop, on an           1982     Completed   ONAPO was unable to
component of       experimental basis,                              increase significantly the
BGM II Rural       community-based family                           number of contraceptive
Development        planning services in the                         acceptors. Major constraint
Project            prefecture of Kibungo.                           was lack of MOHSA
(Cr. 1283-RW)      Component to be                                  involvement in FP services
implemented by                                   provisions at health center
ONAPO                                            level.
- Second Education   Establishment of one       1982     Completed   Construction was of good
Project            A-3 nursing school in                            quality.
(Cr. 1263-RW)      Gisenyi
- Population Project  To support the            1991     Extremely   ONAPO, which had been
(Cr. 2272 - RW)    implementation of the               slow         given the responsibility of
National Population                  progress    coordinating the
Policy and to contribute             because of  implementation of this
to reducing the total                manage-    operation, has been unable
fertility rate, improving            ment        to manage the project
maternal and child                   problems    properly. Responsibility
health, and integrating                          for the project has been
the demographic                                  transferred to MOHSA.
dimension in cross-
sectoral development
activities.
Food Security and   To improve the food       1992      Credit      Project is off to a good
Social Action      security and social                  effective   start.
Project            welfare of the poorest               8/5/93
(Cr. 2388 - RW)    population groups, to
improve the
government's capability
to monitor living
standards of the
population, and to
initiate a long-term
poverty alleviation
strategy.                                            .



16 -
2.    Project Timetable
Item               Original       Date         Date
Timetable     Revised      Actual
- Identification                12/83         -           12/83
(Initiating Project Brief)
- Preparation                   4/85          -           4/85
- Appraisal Mission            7-8/85          -         7-/8/85
- Credit Negotiations           2/86           -          2/86
- Board Approval               4/1/86          -         4/1/86
- Credit Signature             5/23/86         -         5/23/86
- Credit Effectiveness         9/22/86     11/21/86      2/27/87
- Credit Closing              6/30/92       6/30/93     12/31/93
6/30/94
3.    Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
|_____   ______     (USS  million)                               l
Fiscal Year   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92    FY93    FY94
Appraisal    0.60    2.60    5.40    8.30    10.20   10.80    -
Estimate
Actual       1.07    1.61    1.87    2.73    3.68    7.65    12.63    13.51
Actual as %   178%   62%    35%    33%    36%    71%         117%      125%
of Estimate
Note:
Due to an increase in the value of the SDR in dollars, actual disbursements in
dollars have been greater than the amount estimated at appraisal.



- 17 -
4.     Project Implementation
Appraisal           Actual or PCR
Indicators                    Estinates              Estimates
A.    Strengthening Family Health Services
(a) Number of health center staff retrained   1,400    1,320
(b) Number of additional A4 trained and         200      300
deployed
(c) Number of peripheral health facilities       30  - 18 completed.
upgraded or rehabilitated                         - 4 completed at 60% only because
of the war.
(d) Percentage of health centers delivering   100%    92%
FP services
B.    Institutional Strengthening
(a) Training of MOHSA/ONAPO regional    completed  - completed
teams.
(b) Fellowship and Study Tours            completed  - completed
(c) Supply of vehicles & equipment        completed  - completed
(d) Construction of regional offices              8  - 6
(e) Health financing study                completed  - completed; because of complexity
of subject, additional studies were
required.
(f) Health Information System            Completed  - Partially completed; first phase of
needs assessment and
requirements finalized by an
international consultant.
C.    Human Resources Development
(a) Construction of two A3 nursing schools   completed  - one completed.
- one completed at 90% only
because of the war.
(b) Training of teachers                   completed  - not done
D.    Population Policy
(a) Study of factors influencing the      completed  - Completed.
acceptance and continuation of
contraceptive use
(b) Study of maternal and under-five      completed  - completed (not under project, but
mortality                                          as part of USAID financed DHS
undertaken in 1991).



- 18 -
5.    Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs (Appraisal Estimate)
Local I Foreign         Total
-------US$ Thousand----
I.    Strengthening Family Health              1,559     2,099         3,658
Services
II.   Institutional Strengthening               916      2,268         3,184
Ill.   Human Resource Development             2,066       1,211        3,277
IV.   Population Policy Studies                  113       119          232
V.    Project Management                        368        555          923
VI.   Refunding of PPF                           176       264          440
Total Base Cost                         5,199      6,517       11,715
Contingencies
Physical                                79         114          193
Price                                 1,292      1,251        2,543
Total Project Cost                       6,569      7,882       14,451
(net of taxes and duties)



- 19 -
B. Project Financing Plan (Appraisal Estimnate)
Local      Foreign I             Total
-----US$ Thousand----
IDA Credit                          3,740        7,063              10,803
World Health Organization                          725                 725
Government:
Recurrent Budget             2,829                            2,829
Development Budget                           93 I_93
6,569        7,882              14,451
Note: Because project accounts have been kept by expenditure category, there is no
information on the actual cost of each project component which could be compared
with the estimate included in the Staff Appraisal Report. Similarly and for the same
reason, there is no information on the financing that has been actually provided by
government, IDA or WHO by project component.
6.    Project Results
Indicators          Appraisal Estimates          PCR Estimates
(As of, or for year ended    (Most recent information
12/31/91)                 available)
I. Contraceptive                 10%                        13%
prevalence
2. Child health                  30%                        85%
monitoring
3. Deliveries in health          30%                        30%
facilities
4. Prenatal care                 80%                        95 %
Note: An evaluation of the economic impact or financial impact does not apply to
this project, and it is too early to assess the impact of the studies financed under the
project.



- 20 -
7.    Status of Covenants
Section in Credit                              Deadline
Agreement                Subject               for               Status
compliance
2.02 (b)      Operation of Special           N/A       Satisfactory
Account
3.01         Carrying out of project by    N/A       Not very satisfactory in
MINISAPASO and                          the early years, since it
MINEPRISEC                              was not with due
diligence and efficiency.
3.02         Procurement                   N/A       Unsatisfactory but
improved towards the end
of the project
3.03         Borrower to submit health     9/30      Not complied with by the
sector investment program               due date; generally,
for following year,                     investment programs
including proposed budget               have been submitted
for project                             when published in
Official Gazette.
3.04         Borrower to submit study     4/30/87    Complexity of subject
on financing of public health           required additional
and proposal for                        studies which were done,
implementation.                         but no proposal for
implementation was
submitted.
3.05(a)       Borrower to appoint full-    9/30/86    complied with on
time chief for                          10/29/86
MINISAPASO's MCH
Division
3.05(b)       Borrower to employ an        12/31/86    Not complied with by
additional training specialist          due date, but in 1988
for MINISAPASO's                        three additional training
Training Division                       specialists were assigned
to training division and
project unit.
3.06         Borrower to provide the      12/31/86    Complied with in
locations of the 5                      September 1986.
unidentified health centers



- 21 -
Section in Credit                               Deadline
Agreement                Subject                for               Status
compliance
3.07(a)       Borrower to submit proposal    12/31/87    Not complied with by
to improve MINISAPASO's                  due date; consultant
statistical health information           report submitted in 1991.
system
3.07(b)       Borrower to submit            12/31/87    Not complied with by the
MINISAPASO's proposal                    due date. However, a
for a career path for nurses             MOHSA directive of
aides (level A4)                         March 1990 stated that
this personnel should be
recognized as specialized
workers and provided
with the same benefits as
"aides-infirmiers".
Moreover, budgetary
positions were provided
for A4 nurses aides.
4.01(a)       Borrower to maintain            N/A       Unsatisfactory; Borrower
project accounts                         failed to remedy the
shortcomings identified
by the auditor, despite
several reminders from
the Bank.
4.01(b)       Borrower to have project        6/30      1987: complied with in
accounts audited annually                March 88
1988: complied with in
October 89
1989: complied with in
May 90
1990: complied with in
November 91
1991: complied with in
August 92
1992: complied with in
June 93



- 22 -
Section in Credit                               Deadline
Agreement                Subject               for               Status
compliance
Section of General
Conditions
9.06         Progress Reports               N/A       Reports not submitted
regularly during first four
years. During the last
three years, quarterly
progress reports were
received.
9.06         Completion report                        Not due yet
8.    Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (in staff-weeks)
Stage of Project        Actual
Through Appraisal             95.9
Appraisal through board       45.4
approval
Board approval through        4.3
effectiveness
Supervision                   128.3
Total                        273.9



- 23 -
B. Missions
Stage of       Month/Year   Nurnber   Days  Specializations  Performnance   Types of
Project Cycle                   of       in     Represented       Rating     Problems
Persons   Field       (a)             (b)         (c)
Through
Appraisal
Identification    11/83         3        15         PHS
Preparation    4/84             2        10         PHS
Preparation    9/84             2        7          PHS
Preparation    2/85             2        15         PHS
Pre-appraisal   4/85            4        14       PHS, AR
Appraisal      7-8/85           5        19      PHS, FA,
AR, DEM
Board
Approval
through
Effectiveness
supervision 1   5/86            1        5          PHS
supervision 2    8/86           4        8      PHS, AR, EC
Supervision
supervision 3   2-3/87          2        10       PHS, AR           2
supervision 4    9/87           2        7        PHS, AR
supervision 5    1-2/88         2        15       PHS, AR           2
supervision 6    10/88          3        10    PHS, AR, NS          2
supervision 7   2/89            1        12         PHS             2           PMF
supervision 8   4/89            1        6          AR              2           PRO
supervision 9    8/89           2        16       EC, PHS           2           PRO
supervision 10  11-12/89        2        13         AR              2           PRO
supervision 11  2/90            2        11       EC, PHS           2           PRO



- 24 -
B. Missions
Stage of       Month/Year   Number   Days   Specializations  Performance   Types of
Project Cycle                   of        in     Represented       Rating      Problems
l___________  Persons   Field          (a)            (b)           (c)
supervision 12   1-2/91          2        12       EC, AR             2          PMF
supervision 13  6-7/91           1        4           AR              2           PRO
supervision 14   10/91           2        14       PHS, AR            3          PMF
supervision 15  9-10/92          1        14          FA              2           SP
supervision 16  4-5/93           1        15          FA              2           SP
supervision 17  7/93             1        26          FA              1
a) Key to specialization:
PHS = Public Health Specialist             FA  = Financial Analyst
EC  = Economist                           NS = Nutrition Specialist
AR  = Architect                          DEM  = Demographer
b) Key to performance rating:
1 = Problem free           2 = Moderate problems        3 = Major problems
c) Key to types of problems:
PMF = Project Management Performance  PRO = Procurement  SP = Studies Progress



