OFFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1678 RW
Development Credit Agreement
(Family Health Project)
between
0
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                           3   , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1678 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                c t"'   A      1986, between the
RWANDESE REPUBLIC (the Bcrrower) aAd the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as followsi
ARTICLE I
o General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pur-
suant to an exchange of letters dated September 18, 1984 and
November 15, 1984 between the Borrower and the Association;
(c)  "MINISAPASO" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public
Health and Social Affairs; and
(d) "MINEPRISEC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Primary
and Secondary Education.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nine million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 9,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
aad  the   Association,  for   expenditures  made  (or,   if  the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a Special Account in its Central
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedufe 3 to this
Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount f the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from


﻿-3-
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service .harge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Sectionj2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing May 1, 1996, and ending November 1,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 1, 2005, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A through C.1
and D of the Project through the MINISAPASO and Parts C.2 and
C.3 of the Project through the MINEPRISEC with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, economic, technical and public health pract9ces,


﻿-4-
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. By September 30 of each year of execution of
the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for
information its health sector investment program for the follow-
ing year, such program to include the proposed budget for the
carrying out of the Project for such year.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, by April 30, 1987, furnish
to the Association for comment the findings and recommendations
of the study on the financing of public health currently being
carried out Aith the assistance of the World Health Organization,
together with the Borrower's proposal for the implementation of
such recommendations.
Section 3.05. (a) By September 30, 1986, the Pprrower shall
appoint a full time chief for the MINISAPASO's Maternal and Child
Health Division.
(b) By December 31, 1986 the Borrower shall employ an
additional training specialist for the MINISAPASO's Training
Division.
Section 3.06. By December 31, 1986, the Borrower shall
provide to the Association for approval the locations of the five
health centers to be constructed in addition to the 25 already
identified for improvement under Part A.3 of the Project.
Section 3.07. By December 31, 1987, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for comment:
(a) a proposal to improve the statistical health informa-
tion system of the MINISAPASO; and
(b) the proposal of the MINISAPASO for a career path for
nurses aides (level A4).


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section including the Special Account
audited for each fiscal year in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles    consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate re-
cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment
out of the Special Account was made, all records


﻿-6-
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such seprate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn or paid out of the
Special Account in respect of such expenditures
were used for the purposes for which they were
provided.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has employed or
assigned to, for the Project a Project Coordinatoro an architect
and an accountant,whose qualifications and experience are satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 5.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Arti-
cle IV of this Agreement shall cease on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date 15
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿I
-7-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministare des Finances et de l'Economie
B.P. 158
Kigali
Rwanda
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFINECO                         502 MINAFFET
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDUJLE
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:             5,400,000          100%
construction
and rehabil-
itation
(2) Furniture,                1,170,000          100% of foreign
equipment,                                 expenditures
medical                                     and 80% of local
supplie,s and                              expenditures
vehicles
(3)  Consultants'             1,710,000         100%
services,
fellowships
and training
(4)  Operating costs,           360,000          70%
including per
diem allowances
for supervisors
but excluding
salaries
(5)  Refunding of               360,000         Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                            suant to Sec-
tion Advance                                tion 2.02 (c)
of this Agree-
ment
(6) Unallocated                 800,000
TOTAL               9,800,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   If the amount all3cated to Category (5) above is in excess
of the amount due, the excess will be reallocated to Cate-
gory (6).
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals from the Credit Account or payments out of the
Special Account shall be made in respect of payments for
expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve maternal and
child health with particular emphasis on family planning within
the national strategy for primary health care.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening of Family Health Services
1.   Carrying out of an on-the-job training program for
health center staff focused on primary health care,
especially in family health.
2.   Provision of essential medical supplies for the family
health program.
3.   Improvement of facilities and provision of materials
and equipment for 30 health centers.
Part B:   Institutional Strengthening of MINISAPASO
1.   Strengthening of the Maternal and Child Health Division
of the MINISAPASO, including family planning and nu-
trition services, through provision of training and
fellowships, equipment, supplies and two vehicles (one
4-wheel-drive and one passenger car).
2.   Strengthening   of  the  Personnel   Training  Division
through the employment of technical assistants, and the
acquisition of additional equipment, teaching material
and a minibus.
3.   Strengthening of the Division of Studies and Evaluation
through the employment of technical assistants, the
provision of two fellowships for statisticians and
the acquisition of office equipment, including a
microcomputer, and a 4-wheel-drive vehicle.
4.   Construction of eight regional offices and of thirteen
housing units for the MINISAPASO and provision of


﻿-12-
supplies and equipment and one 4-wheel-drive vehicle
for each such office.
Part C:   Human Resources Development
1.   Pre-service training of about 200 nurses' aides for
health centers, including training of the trainers
therefor.
2.   Construction of two nursing schools and related housing
for teaching staff, in Byumba and Kaduha.
3.   Training of teachers for these nursing schools.
Part D:   Population Policy
1.   Carrying out of a study on fa..tors influencing the
acceptance and continued use of modern methods of
contraception.
2.   Carrying out of a study of under five and maternal
mortality.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1991.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule I
to this Agreement;
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Speeial Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the Authorized
Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
* )withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special
Account such   amount or amounts as the Borrower       shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible


﻿- 14 -
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Associatien shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocate l to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the


﻿- 15 -
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. No further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or
refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   For the purpose of inviting bids and offers, similar or
related items will be grouped in the largest practical lots to
attract advantageous prices.
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Rwanda
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 anS 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a
margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated after group-
ing to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less (in the aggregate
not to exceed, without the prior approval of the Association, the
equivalent of $1,000,000), as well as contracts for the construc-
tion of health centers and regional offices, may be awarded on
t',( basis of competitive bidding, (adjudications publiques)
Luvertised locally in accordance with the Borrower's procedures.


﻿- 17 -
2.   Contracts for   equipment and   furniture which    cannot be
grouped into lots of more than $25,000 equivalent may be nego-
tiated with the lowest of at least three suppliers.
Part E.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for furniture, equipment
and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more
and with respect to any other contract estimated to cost the
,quivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
(c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account or pay-
ments out of the Special Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with
Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 18 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ management, technical, architectural
and training consultants and experts, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    2 1     day of
198    .
FORSECRETARY
0


