                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                         Report No: 62000-AFR
                             PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                            ON A

                                    A PROPOSED GRANT
                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.6 MILLION
                               (US$ 9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       AND A CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.8 MILLION
                              (US$ 11 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                           TO THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC


                                             AND


                                   A PROPOSED GRANT
                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.4 MILLION
                             (US$ 13.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       AND A CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.2 MILLION
                              (US$ 16.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD



             IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND PART OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
              THE CENTRAL AFRICAN BACKBONE PROGRAM (CAB APL 1B)

                                         June 6, 2011



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



                                              1
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS


                   (Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2011)

                       Currency Unit = SDR
                       US$ 1.620960 = SDR 1
                       CFAF 442.97 = US$ 1

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 – December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADSL    Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line
AFD     Agence Française de Développement
        French Development Agency
AfDB    African Development Bank
AICD    Africa Infrastructure Country Diagnostic
APL     Adaptable Program Loan
ART     Agence de Régulation des Télécommunications
        Telecommunications Regulatory Agency
AU      African Union
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CAR     Central African Republic
CDMA    Code Division Multiple Access
CEMAC   Communauté Economique et Monétaire des Etats de l’Afrique Centrale
        Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPIP    Country Procurement Issues Paper
DEE     Direction des Evaluations Environnementales et de Lutte contre les Pollutions et
        Nuisances (Chad)
        Environmental Evaluation Directorate
DFI     Development Finance Institution
DGEES   Direction Générale de l’Environnement et de l’Economie Sociale
        Directorate of Environment and Social Economy (CAR)
DSL     Digital Subscriber Line
ECCAS   Economic Community of Central African States
EMP     Environment Management Plan
ESMF    Environmental and Social Management Framework
FBS     Fixed Budget Selection
FCFA    Franc CFA
        CFA Franc
FMM     Financial Management Manual
FMS     Financial Management Specialist
FMU     Financial Management Unit

                                       2
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GoCAR         Government of the Central African Republic
GoCD          Government of the Republic of Chad
GPRS          General Packet Radio Service
GSM           Global System for Mobile Communications
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
ICT           Information and Communication Technology
IDA           International Development Association
IFC           International Finance Corporation
IFMIS         Integrated Financial Management Information System
IFR           Interim Financial Report
IPDP          Indigenous People Development Plan
IPPF          Infrastructure Project Preparation Facility
ISN           Interim Strategy Note
ISR           Implementation Status and Results Report
MIGA          Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MPTIC         Ministry of Post and ICT (Chad)
MPTNT         Ministry of Post and Telecommunications in charge of New Technologies (CAR)
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
NICI          National Information and Communications Infrastructure
OTRT          Office Tchadien de Régulation des Télécommunications
              Office of the Telecommunication Regulator of Chad
PEFA          Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PPP           Public Private Partnership
PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSTN          Public Switched Telephone Network
RAP           Resettlement Action Plan
REIMP         Regional Environmental Information Management Project
RoCAR         Republic of CAR
RoCD          Republic of Chad
SIM           Subscriber Identity Module
SOCATEL       Société Centrafricaine de Télécommunications
              Central Africa Telecommunications Company
Sotel Tchad   Société des Télécommunications du Tchad
              Tchad Telecommunications Company
STPE          Société Tchadienne des Postes et de l'Epargne
              Post and Savings Company of Chad
WACS          West Africa Cable System
WiLL          Wireless Local Loop
WiMAX         Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access




                                           3
                             Vice President:       Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
              Regional Integration Director:       Yusupha B. Crookes
                            Sector Director:       Jose Luis Irigoyen
          Acting Country Director for CAR:         Kathryn Hollifield
                 Country Director for Chad:        Ousmane Diagana
                           Sector Manager:         Philippe Dongier
Task Team Leader for CAB APL1B and CAB             Jérôme Bezzina
                                   Program:




                                               4
                                  PAD DATA SHEET


                         CHAD AND CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
                  CENTRAL AFRICAN BACKBONE PROGRAM – APL 1B

                          PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                             AFRICA
                                         ICT Sector Unit

Date: June 6, 2011                          Sector(s): Telecommunications (60%); General
Regional Integration Director:              information and communications sector
Yusupha Crookes                             (20%);General Industry and Trade (20%)
Country Director for Chad:                  Theme(s): Trade facilitation and market access
Ousmane Diagana                             (34%);Infrastructure services for private sector
Acting Country Director for CAR:            development (33%);Regional integration (33%)
Kathryn Hollifield
Sector Director: Jose Luis Irigoyen
Sector Manager: Philippe Dongier            EA Category: B Partial Assessment
Team Leader(s): Jérôme Bezzina
Project ID: P116542
Lending Instrument: APL

                                      Project Financing Data:
Proposed terms:
[ ] Loan   [ X] Credit    [ X ] Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
                Source                                    Total Amount (US$ million)
Total Project Cost:                                                58.00
   Borrower (Chad):                                                 8.00
   Total Bank Financing:                                           50.00
       IDA Grant                                                        22.50
           Chad                                                             13.50
           CAR                                                               9.00
       IDA Credit                                                       27.50
           Chad                                                             16.50
           CAR                                                              11.00




                                                 5
Borrowers:
   - Central African Republic (CAR)
   - Republic of Chad (Chad)
Responsible Agencies:
   - CAR: Ministry of Post and Telecommunications in charge of New Technologies
      Mr. Justin GOURNA
      Adviser
      236 75 50 57 95
      jgourna@yahoo.fr
      Rue Galliéni, B.P. 814,
      Bangui
      République Centrafricaine

     -   Chad: Ministry of Post and ICT
         Mr. Haroun Mahamat BADAOUY
         Secretary General
         235 99 94 60 25
         hamaba2000@gmail.com
         B.P. 154
         N’Djamena
         République du Tchad
Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US$ m)
FY                        2012     2013        2014           2015      2016    2017
Annual                     1.00      9.00       20.00         17.00      3.00     0.00
Cumulative                 1.00     10.00       30.00         47.00     50.00     0.00

Project Implementation Period: Start June 30, 2011 End: June 30, 2016
Expected effectiveness date: March 27, 2012
Expected closing date: December 31, 2016
Does the project depart from the CAS in content or other         ○ Yes X No
significant respects?

If yes, please explain:

Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?      ○ Yes X No
Have these been approved/endorsed (as appropriate by Bank        ○ Yes ○ No
management?
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?      ○ Yes X No

If yes, please explain:




                                               6
                                                                      X Yes ○ No
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for
implementation?

If no, please explain:

Project Development objective:
To contribute to increase geographical reach and usage of regional broadband network services and
reduce their prices, in the Republic of Chad and the Central African Republic.
Project description

Component 1: Connectivity. This component will finance a public private partnership structure
to support the deployment of interconnected networks to form a regional network, and
additional technical assistance or support for an effective management and monitoring of CAB
networks.

Component 2: Project Management. This component will finance management related issues at
the project level. This component will help to strengthen the existing PIUs established at
national level.

Safeguard policies triggered?

Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                           X Yes    ○ No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                   X Yes    ○ No
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                            ○ Yes    X No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                       ○ Yes    X No
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                        X Yes    ○ No
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                                 ○ Yes    X No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                           X Yes    ○ No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                     ○ Yes    X No
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                                ○ Yes    X No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                         ○ Yes    X No




                                                   7
                             Conditions and Legal Covenants:
 Financing                   Description of Condition/Covenant                         Date Due
 Agreement
 Reference
Section 5.01   Grant/Credit effectiveness:                                          180 days after
               (a) CAR and Chad (the Recipients) have established the legal          the signing of
               structure for the installation and management of the International    the Financing
               CAB Network in accordance with PPP principles by (i) establishing Agreements
               the International CAB Company, and (ii) signing a satisfactory PPP
               Agreement with the International CAB Company and the Private
               Partner, all in form and substance and pursuant to terms and
               conditions satisfactory to the Association.
               (b) The Chad IDA Financing Agreement has been executed and
               delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the
               right of Chad to make withdrawals under it have been fulfilled.
               (c) The CAR IDA Financing Agreement has been executed and
               delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the
               right of CAR to make withdrawals under it have been fulfilled.
               (d) The Recipients have recruited a safeguards specialist within
               the Project Coordination Units
                (e) The Recipients have adopted an updated Project
               Implementation Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the
               Association.
                (f) Chad and CAR have signed a memorandum of understanding
               describing the roles and responsibilities of Chad and CAR in
               implementing the Project, including but not limited to detailed
               arrangements for the procurement procedures applicable to the
               selection of the Private Partner and arrangement for the common
               regulatory oversight of the International CAB Company and the
               International CAB Network.
               (g)     Chad has made the initial contribution of counterpart funds
               into the Project Account required at the signing of the PPP
               Agreement pursuant to the terms of the PPP Agreement, if
               applicable.




                                                 8
 Financing                      Description of Condition/Covenant                            Date Due
 Agreement
 Reference
                 Covenants applicable to project implementation:

Section          The National Operating Companies have been properly                      No later than
I.A(4)(b) of     incorporated in the territory of the Recipients and the International    five (5) months
Schedule 2       CAB Company and the National Operating Companies have                    after the
                 obtained for the duration of the Project’s implementation all Legal      Effectiveness
                 Authorizations (inter alia, licenses) necessary to install, manage and   Date
                 operate the International CAB Network within the Recipients’
                 territories.
Section V.1   The Recipients shall recruit the external auditors for the Project.
of Schedule 2                                                                             No later than
                                                                                          four (4)
                                                                                          months after
                                                                                          the
                                                                                          Effectiveness
                                                                                          Date

Section V.2   Chad shall deposit into the Project Account in accordance with the In accordance
of Schedule 2 schedule set forth in the PPP Agreement Chad’s counterpart funds with the
              contribution for the financing of the Project in an amount equal to schedule set
              the portion of the total public contribution payments to be made by forth in the
              Chad and CAR under the PPP Agreement in excess of US$45.425 PPP
              million.                                                            Agreement




                                                    9
 
Table of Contents 
I.      Strategic Context ................................................................................................................... 11 
      A.       Regional and Country Context ....................................................................................... 11 
      B.       Sectoral and Institutional Context .................................................................................. 13 
      C.       Higher Level Objectives to which the Project Contributes ............................................ 18 
II.  Project Development Objectives........................................................................................... 20 
      A.       Project Beneficiaries ...................................................................................................... 20 
      B.       PDO Level Results Indicators ........................................................................................ 20 
III.        Project Description............................................................................................................. 21 
        A.        Project components..................................................................................................... 21 
        B.        Project Financing ........................................................................................................ 23 
        C.        Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design ............................................... 24 
IV.         Implementation .................................................................................................................. 27 
        A.        Institutional and Implementation Arrangements ........................................................ 27 
        B.        Results Monitoring and Evaluation ............................................................................ 29 
        C.        Sustainability .............................................................................................................. 30 
V.  Key Risks .............................................................................................................................. 31 
VI.         Appraisal Summary ........................................................................................................... 32 
        A.        Economic and Financial Analysis .............................................................................. 32 
        B.        Technical .................................................................................................................... 33 
        C.        Financial Management ............................................................................................... 36 
        D.        Procurement ................................................................................................................ 36 
        E.        Social and Environment.............................................................................................. 37 
        F.        Credit conditions and covenants ................................................................................. 38 
Annex 1: Results Framework and Monitoring.............................................................................. 40 
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description ........................................................................................ 43 
Annex 3a: Implementation Arrangements – Central African Republic (CAR) ........................... 52 
Annex 3b: Implementation Arrangements – Republic of Chad................................................... 73 
Annex 4 Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF) ....................................................... 95 
Annex 5: Implementation Support Plan ........................................................................................ 99 
Annex 6: Team Composition ...................................................................................................... 102 
Annex 7: Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................... 103 
Annex 8: Estimates of the Cost of Construction......................................................................... 108 
Annex 9: CAB Program Background and Vision ....................................................................... 114 

                                                                        10
 
   I. Strategic Context
      A. Regional and Country Context
Central African Republic
1       Central African Republic (CAR). CAR is a landlocked country that is rich in natural
and mineral resources. CAR has a population of 4.5 million, of which, approximately 12 percent
lives in Bangui, the capital city. CAR’s overall population density is low at 6.9 inhabitants per
sq km. The country’s nearest coastal port is Douala (Cameroon). Transport costs are high due to
a poorly developed infrastructure. The road network covers around 25,600 km, but only 750 km
are surfaced and many roads are impassable during the rainy season. The Oubangui River is a
key trade route, providing a connection for passenger and cargo vessels from Bangui’s port to
Brazzaville and Kinshasa.
2      CAR is one of the world's poorest countries. CAR’s GDP per capita in 2009 was
US$454 and it ranked 159 out of 169 countries in the United Nations Development Program’s
2010 Human Development Index. The incidence of poverty in rural areas is particularly high.
Only 3 percent of the population has access to electricity while access to basic education and
health services is minimal. The primary sector (small-scale farming, forestry, fishing and
herding) accounts for more than half of GDP and around 50 percent of export revenue.
3      CAR continues to emerge from a fragile economic situation. Macroeconomic
performance and policy implementation have improved in recent years in CAR. Real GDP grew
by an estimated 3.3 percent in 2010 as a result of a moderate pick-up in timber and diamond
exports and is expected to grow by over 4 percent in 2011 and 2012.
Republic of Chad
4       The Republic of Chad is also a landlocked country and neighbors CAR. It has a
population of 11.2 million and a land-area of 1.3 million square kilometers, making it the 5th
largest country in the region. Chad’s economy has long been hindered by its landlocked position,
high energy costs, and a history of political instability. It relies on foreign assistance and
international capital for most public and private sector investment projects. The economy is
dominated by two sectors – oil and agriculture. Over 80 percent of the population relies on
subsistence farming and stock raising for its livelihood. Cotton accounts for 80 percent of non-oil
export earnings, with cattle and Gum Arabic making up the bulk of the rest. In 2003 a
consortium led by Exxon Mobil invested US$3.7 billion to develop Chad’s oil reserves, which
are estimated at 1.5 billion barrels. Oil production began in November 2003 with the completion
of a 1,100km pipeline, partly financed by the World Bank, linking the south of the country to
Cameroon.
5      Despite being an oil-producing nation since 2003, Chad suffers from inadequate
infrastructure and poverty. Poverty is rife, and health and social conditions are amongst the
worst in the world. Chad ranks 163 of 169 countries in the United Nations 2010 Human
Development Index, with 55 percent of the population living in poverty. Chad also struggles with
low social indicators. The adult literacy rate is around 32% and life expectancy at birth is 49
years. Access to sources of clean water is limited to three in ten people, electricity is accessible
by only 1 percent of the population and there are only 1,100km of paved roads in a country
almost twice the size of France.
                                                11
6       Chad economic growth has been highly variable in recent years. Thanks to revenues
from the export of oil, Chad had the world's fastest growing economy in 2004, with GDP growth
registering at 33.6 percent. However, the country was unable to maintain this high growth rate
and in 2005 the figure dipped to 17.5 percent, 5 percent in 2006 and fell to -0.4 percent in 2008.
Reasons for the slowdown included a reduction in petroleum production and difficulties in the
cotton sector as a result of poor rainfall. GDP growth started to recover in 2009 (0.3 percent) and
continued to grow thereafter, reaching 5.1 percent in 2010. This was the result of stronger
activity in both the oil and the non-oil sectors. In 2011 non-oil activity is expected to remain
robust due to continued construction activity and favorable agricultural production, but oil
production is expected to decline.
Regional Integration in the Central Africa Region
7      Background to regional cooperation in Central Africa. The landlocked position of
Chad and CAR creates geographical barriers to trade which are constraining economic growth in
both countries. The Central Africa region also faces issues of conflict, migration, and
environmental concerns which, by their very nature, raise cross-border challenges. Partly to
address these transnational problems, regional cooperation and economic integration have
become important parts of the long-term development strategy of all countries in Central Africa.
Several major regional cooperation initiatives have been launched over the last ten years. The
Cameroon-Chad pipeline project is one example. Another is the sharing of environmental
information under the multi-year Regional Environmental Information Management Project
(REIMP) which has created a framework for regional cooperation in natural resource
management.
8       There are significant constraints to regional integration. Despite the importance of
regional integration in Central Africa and some high-profile initiatives, several factors currently
impede the process. The region has experienced a number of internal conflicts and Chad and
CAR have both experienced internal political unrest over the last twenty years. Economic factors
also create barriers to economic integration in Central Africa: low growth, poor infrastructure (in
power, transport, water and ICT), vulnerability to volatile oil prices, lack of economic
complementarities, and disparities between coastal and landlocked countries.
9      Other cross-border issues. Regional integration in Central Africa is also affected by
cross-border issues with countries outside the region. The conflict in Sudan’s Darfur region, for
example, has occasionally threatened to affect Chad and the Central African Republic. In early
2008, Sudan announced it was cutting diplomatic relations with Chad over violence relating to
the Darfur conflict but relations were restored later in the same year. The relationship between
the two countries improved dramatically after the President of Chad visited Khartoum in
February 2010 and the countries committed themselves to joint military border patrols.
10      The World Bank is further developing its engagement in the region. In August 2009,
the World Bank’s Executive Board discussed a new Country Partnership Strategy for CAR
covering its engagement over the period July 2009 to June 2012. The Bank’s Executive Board
also discussed in July 2010 a new Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for Chad covering engagement
over the period June 2010 to June 2012. The World Bank now has a number of projects in both
countries covering a wide range of sectors.




                                                12
           B. Sectoral and Institutional Context
11      CAR and Chad have both made progress in modernizing their telecommunications
sectors. Both countries have liberalized their mobile markets and have established dedicated
regulatory authorities for the sector. They are both currently revising their sector legislation to
translate into their national legislation the CEMAC Directives for electronic communications
services which are in-line with good international practices. However, despite these reforms, the
ICT sector in both countries performs poorly when compared to regional benchmarks. Although
mobile subscriber numbers have increased since the liberalization process began, penetration
rates in both countries remain low by regional standards. Internet access is expensive and
inaccessible for the majority of citizens of the two countries.


                           Table 1: Sector performance in CAR and
                                Chad vs selected benchmarks


                            Mobile teledensity
                                                                       2010
                            (per 100 people)

                            World                                      78.7

                            Africa                                     56.1

                            Cameroon                                   50.1

                            Central African Republic                   31.0

                            Chad                                       29.0

                            Congo                                      85.7

                            Equatorial Guinea                          68.4

                            Source: Wireless Intelligence April 2011



Sector Context in CAR
12      Sector reforms in CAR. The legal framework for telecommunications in CAR is set by
the law No 96.008 of January 1996 which came into force in 2003. This legislation provided for
the liberalization of the sector and created a Telecom regulatory authority, l'Agence des
Télécommunications (ART). The Ministère des Postes, des Télécommunications chargé des
Nouvelles Technologies (MPTNT) was created in 1999 and has responsibility for the country's
ICT policy. There are now four private mobile operators in CAR: Telecel, Moov
(AtlantiqueTelecom), Nationlink and Orange. Fully state-owned SOCATEL has also recently
launched a limited mobility service using CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access) technology.
13     Sector performance in CAR. Out of a total estimated population of 4.5 million in 2010,
the number of main fixed lines in operation was 3,237 (i.e. about 7.23 line per 10,000
inhabitants) and the number of mobile subscriptions was 1.4 million, representing a mobile

                                                   13
teledensity of 31 percent. The number of Internet subscribers in December 2010 was 19,000,
and the total international bandwidth for the country was extremely low, estimated at 34 Mbps as
of the end of 2010.
14      International connectivity for CAR. CAR does not have either direct or indirect access
to submarine fiber-optic cables. It is one of the few African countries that remains fully
dependent on satellite for international bandwidth. The current cost of bandwidth is US$4,000-
5,000 per Mbps per month which is very high by regional standards. The equivalent price in East
Africa, for example, is approximately US$500/Mbps/month and falling quickly as a result of
intense competition between submarine fiber-optic cables.
Sector Context in Chad
15      Sector Reforms in Chad. Chad’s telecoms market is governed under Law 009/PR/98,
which was passed in August 1998. The sector is regulated by the Office Tchadien de Regulation
des Telecommunications (OTRT) which enforces the rules on competition, mainly by instituting
proceedings or applying sanctions against operators. The market has been liberalized and there
are three mobile wireless network operators: Airtel Chad (formerly Zain Chad), Millicom
International Cellular (Tigo Chad) and Salam Mobile, the wireless arm of fixed line incumbent
Société des Télécommunications du Tchad (Sotel Tchad). There is only one fixed line operator,
Sotel Tchad, which has a monopoly on the provision of fixed line services in Chad; no date has
been set for liberalization of this segment of the market.
16      Sector performance in Chad. The market has been growing rapidly, expanding by 42
percent in 2009 with growth still strong in 2010, at 37 percent. Despite this growth, mobile
teledensity remains low by regional standards, reaching only 29 percent by April 2011, less than
half the figure achieved by Nigeria. The largest operator in the country is Airtel Chad (formerly
Zain) which, by April 2011 had 1.7 million subscribers and a market share of 54 percent. Tigo
Chad was second with 1.5 million subscribers and a market share of 46 percent. The third mobile
licensee, Sotel Chad, has not yet gained any significant market share. Sotel Tchad (the fixed line
incumbent operator) was sold in 2010 to Libya-owned Lap Green Networks who also made
major commitments on investment and subscriber growth. However, problems experienced by
Lap Green in some of its other investments in Africa have created some uncertainty about
whether these targets will be achieved. Broadband Internet in Chad is very limited. A company
called TchadNet is the sole internet service provider (ISP), offering a limited dial-up service in
the capital N’Djamena and an even more restricted DSL offering. There are a number of internet
cafes in the capital but these suffer from slow speeds and frequent power cuts. Business users
often subscribe directly to satellite-based providers to avoid the problems of these domestic
providers.
17      International connectivity for Chad. Chad currently has no operational fiber-optic
connection to the international submarine cables so all international communications traffic is
routed via satellite. The result is that international calls are expensive for end users, two to three
times the cost in Cameroon, whilst an hour of internet access costs FCFA2,000 (US$4) compared
to just US$0.6 per hour in Benin.
Getting Access to High-Bandwidth Capacity
18     Access to submarine fiber-optic cables is essential for CAR and Chad to obtain
access to affordable international bandwidth. Satellite bandwidth availability is limited and,

                                                 14
equally important, the price of satellite-based international connectivity remains very high. Both
countries therefore need to get access to the submarine fiber-optic cable networks if they are to
successfully bring down the cost of international telecommunications services. As they are both
landlocked, this access will need to be provided via terrestrial fiber-optic networks in
neighboring countries. Potential routes to connect to submarine fiber-optic cables include routes
via Cameroon and via Sudan. There is already a fiber-optic network which runs along the Chad-
Cameroon pipeline and which is expected to be operationalized for carrying public
telecommunications traffic by 2012. In the case of Sudan, there are two competing fiber-optic
networks that run from the landing point of the submarine fiber-optic cables in Port Sudan
towards the Chad-Sudan border. In both cases, CAR would need to obtain access to these transit
routes via Chad.
19      Redundancy and competition in the provision of international bandwidth is
essential. If Chad and CAR are to obtain high-quality and low price international bandwidth,
they need to be able to access the submarine fiber-optic cable networks via multiple routes. This
route ‘redundancy’ means that traffic can be redirected across one network if there is a technical
problem on the other. This duplication of access routes also creates competition in the supply of
international bandwidth which puts downward pressure on prices. This duplication of routes and
competition between network operators has developed rapidly in East Africa following the
launch of the first submarine fiber-optic cable in 2009 resulting in significant price falls.
The Central African Backbone Program
20      Background to Communication Infrastructure Backbone Development in Central
Africa. Governments of Central African countries, with support from regional institutions and
development partners, aim to accelerate the development of communication infrastructure
backbone networks in Central Africa. The Communauté Economique et Monétaire des Etats de
l’Afrique Centrale (CEMAC) Commission is playing a lead role in facilitating this effort,
together with the African Union Commission (AUC). Development partners associated with this
effort include the African Development Bank, the World Bank Group, the Islamic Development
Bank and Japan International Cooperation Agency. In this context the World Bank Board of
Executive Directors approved in 2009 the Central African Backbone (CAB) program in the form
of an Adjustable Program Loan operation (APL). The CAB program covers eleven (11) countries
and is designed to help increase access to, and reduce price of, broadband connectivity in Central
Africa, as well as to help establish redundancy in connectivity linkages.
21      Role of the World Bank Group in supporting the CAB program. The World Bank
Group has been involved in supporting preparation of the CAB program since 2005, and its
implementation since 2009. The Declaration of the CEMAC heads of state adopted in May 2007
called explicitly for World Bank Group technical and financial support. The broader program
has been formulated with other key stakeholders including the AUC, the CEMAC Commission
and the African Development Bank (AfDB). Both the AUC and CEMAC Commission are
playing an important role in facilitating inter-governmental discussions, cooperation and policy
harmonization. The Islamic Development Bank and Japan International Cooperation Agency
have also expressed their interest to provide support. The World Bank has an active policy
dialogue in the ICT sector with the countries covered by the CAB program and is managing a
range of technical assistance activities. The IFC is also playing a role by financing private
telecom operators across the region such as Zain/Airtel, Orange, MTN and Millicom.


                                               15
22     First Phase of the CAB program has two stages: APL1A and APL1B. The CAB
program is structured as both a horizontal APL (with new phases for new participating countries)
and as a vertical APL (with different stages in the same country based on readiness). Cameroon,
CAR and Chad are in the first phase of the program, CAB APL1. This phase is being
implemented in two stages: CAB APL1A and CAB APL1B. The first stage, CAB APL1A is
already under implementation in Chad, CAR and Cameroon and focuses on supporting
regulatory reforms and development of enabling environments through technical assistance to
the governments. The CAB APL1B project represents the second stage of the Phase 1 and is
focused on investment in broadband infrastructure through a public private partnership (PPP).
Progress to date falls into three areas (i) progress to date on regulatory reforms carried out with
the support of CAB APL1A and that are critical to the success of CAB1B; (ii) strengthening
CEMAC Telecom Department to provide assistance to member states; and (iii) Progress in
defining the PPP structure which will build and operate the network financed under CAB APL1B
23      Progress to date on regulatory reforms activities carried out with the support of
CAB APL1A. CAB APL1A became effective in April, 2010, July 2010 and February 2010
respectively in Cameroon, Chad and CAR. The activities for the technical assistance related to
the preparation of primary and secondary sector legislation were initiated in all three countries.
This covers the implementation in December 2010 of the CEMAC Directives related to
interconnection, licensing and universal access. Additional on-going work on secondary
legislation relates to regulation of high bandwidth services (at wholesale and retail level),
regulation of transit traffic. In Cameroon, a new Telecom Law was adopted by the National
Assembly in December 2010 and promulgated by the President. A key aspect of the new law is
the absence of monopoly provision. This will be particularly important when operators in
Cameroon are connecting to the CAB network at the borders of CAR and Chad. CAB APL1A
also supports on-going work to strengthen the competition in the mobile sector (on May 26,
2011, the Minister of Telecommunications Cameroon announced the intention to issue 2 new
mobile licenses). In Chad and CAR, CAB APL1A on-going activities also support both
countries’ regulator in the areas of spectrum management and monitoring.
24      Strengthening CEMAC Telecom Department to provide assistance to member
states. At the regional level an IDF grant1 is being implemented to strengthen CEMAC Telecom
Department and to provide assistance to member states on (i) the establishment of a Regional
monitoring and evaluation capability for Telecom and IT sectors (notably allowing the
publication of detailed data in 2010 and 2011 regarding the development of the sector,
consistently in all CEMAC countries) and (ii) the harmonization of national laws and regulations
across CEMAC (notably leading to the promulgation in 2010 and 2011 of ICT-related CEMAC
directives).
25      Progress in defining the PPP structure. The transaction advisor, recruited under a grant
financed by the African Development Bank to develop the PPP structure and finalize the
transaction, has proposed a regional PPP model which has been formally agreed in CAR and
Chad. Cameroon, having already reached agreement to develop its own fiber-optic backbone
infrastructure, opted for a standalone network with interconnection arrangements to the regional
network infrastructure. It was therefore decided that CAB APL1B would provide financing in
CAR and Chad but not in Cameroon. The transaction advisor has also identified the main legal

1
    CEMAC - Strengthening capacity in the Telecom & IT sector - IDF Grant P109923

                                                       16
and regulatory instruments that will be required to put this structure into effect, and has agreed
with CAR and Chad on the main principles regarding the international competitive bidding
process to select the private sector partner.
26       Country ownership and commitment. The governments of CAR and Chad are fully
committed to the CAB project as an integral part of their development strategy. The CEMAC
Heads-of-State adopted a declaration in 2007 to implement this Program as a key tool for
Regional Integration and Growth. Significant technical and financial resources have been
mobilized by the countries and by the CEMAC Commission to accelerate CAB preparation and
implementation. The governments’ formal confirmation (Letter from Government of CAR dated
April 15, 2011 and letter from Government of Chad dated April 26, 2011) that they are
committed to the project and to the PPP model of implementation is a clear indication of
ownership of the project at the highest political level. This commitment is further demonstrated
by the progress made in designing the PPP structure. The team of advisors engaged on the
project has been working closely with both governments, securing agreement and commitment to
concepts at each stage. This process has successfully taken place during a period that has
included elections in both Chad and CAR, indicating that the commitment to the project goes
beyond individual champions within government and extends to other key political and
institutional stakeholders. This commitment has been formalized during the process of project
appraisal and negotiation. It will be put into effect through the process of selecting a Private
Partner and signing the PPP Agreement which is a condition for effectiveness of the project.
Commitment to the project also goes beyond the two governments. Operators and ISPs in both
countries are dependent on high cost satellites for international bandwidth and they do not have
plans to invest in purely privately financed fiber-optic links to the international submarine-cable
networks due to the risks, particularly given the long payback period for fixed infrastructure
assets. They will therefore all benefit commercially from the low-cost bandwidth that will be
provided under the project.
27       The CAB Program fits well within the framework of the new Africa Strategy. CAB
APL1B is aligned with the World Bank Africa Strategy discussed by the Bank’s Executive
Directors in March 2011. The World Bank’s new strategy for Africa entitled ‘Africa’s Future
and the World Bank’s Support to it’, has two pillars, (a) competitiveness and employment, and
(b) vulnerability and resilience, and a foundation—governance and public sector capacity. The
first pillar focuses on competitiveness and employment, covering all traded goods and service
sectors (for example, light manufacturing, agribusiness, mining, information and communication
technology and tourism) as well as key domestic sectors that support competitiveness. The CAB
APL1B project will contribute to the first pillar of the new strategy, helping to create
competitiveness, investment, sustainable employment and economic growth. The regulatory
focus of the CAB program will facilitate the creation of increasingly competitive environments
to facilitate efficient communications. The governance foundation of the new Africa strategy
also sets out to exploit the potential of ICT to provide innovative ways to enable citizen-centered
governance. The Bank intends to promote the use of ICT to strengthen feedback loops between
citizens, civil society and governments in order to promote accountability in service delivery.
Through facilitating cheaper access to internet and supporting the development of national and
regional communications infrastructure, the CAB program will indirectly help strengthen citizen-
centered governance.



                                                17
28      CAB APL1A and CAB APL1B are also fully consistent with the World Bank’s
Regional Integration Assistance Strategy for Sub-Saharan Africa (RIAS). RIAS has played
a key role in accelerating connectivity and access to ICT network (see Progress Report on the
RIAS for Sub-Saharan Africa March 21, 2011) The CAB APL 1A and APL1B projects focus on
two strategic priorities of the RIAS: Regional infrastructure with a focus on improving
telecommunication connectivity (CAB APL1B), and Institutional Cooperation for Economic
Integration, with a focus on improving regional environment for business, investment and
developing regional markets and related institutions (CAB APL1A).

             C. Higher Level Objectives to which the Project Contributes

29      The project will contribute to making progress towards several of the Millennium
Development Goals. Regarding MDG 1, Targets 1 & 2 (Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger),
there is significant evidence that sustained growth is key to poverty reduction. Recent
econometric studies suggest that the quantity and quality of telecommunications infrastructure
may be connected to growth2. A recent cross-country growth analysis across 120 developed and
developing countries indicates that broadband provides a 1.38 percentage point GDP increase for
each 10 percent points increase in broadband subscribers in low and middle-income countries3.
The 2010 Africa Infrastructure Country Diagnostic (AICD) study4 estimates that improvements
in information and communication technologies (ICT) linked to sector reforms have added as
much as 1 percentage point to Africa's per capita growth rate, accounting for over half of Africa's
improved growth performance and more than any other sector. At the microeconomic level, ICT
provides farmers, workers and entrepreneurs opportunities to reduce transaction costs (increase
revenues of local population), increase market coverage and improve competitiveness.
Regarding MDG 8 Targets 14 through 18 (Global Partnership for Development), this MDG
reaffirms the need to support the special needs of landlocked countries (Target 14) and to
cooperate with the private sector to "make available the benefits of new technologies, especially
information and communications" (Target 18). People living outside the capital city and in
remote areas tend to be poor and socially isolated. They lack information relevant to their
particular situation and thus have difficulty interacting with other community members or other
communities. ICTs, such as radio, telephone and email, can be of great value in bringing people
together, bridging geographic distances and providing relevant information to the poor. The
correlation coefficient across countries of the Human Development Index (HDI) and the
Networked Economy Index (NEI) is above 0.8, suggesting a link between welfare and the use of
ICT in developing countries.
30      The project will contribute to economic diversification and shared growth. ICT is a
General Purpose Technology (GPT) that contributes to economic growth, with greater spill–over
effects witnessed in developing countries. ICT as a GPT can help to achieve a fundamental
restructuring of national and regional economies. Unlike incremental technical progress, GPTs
can bring about radical innovation whose effects can be sustained over an extended period.

2
  Source: Canning 1997, Röller and Waverman 1995, Madden and Savage 1998, Riaz 1997, Easterly and Levine
1997
3
  Source: Qiang, Christine Z, Rossoto, Carlo M., and Kimura K. 2009 “Economic Impacts of Broadband.”
Information and Communication for Development 2009 Report. World Bank, Washington, DC
4
  Source: Africa Infrastructure Country Diagnostic, 2010 edited by Vivien Foster and Cecilia Briceño-Garmendia,
co-published by Agence Française de Developpement and the World Bank.

                                                       18
       Figure 1: GDP per capita percentage increase effect of a ten percent increase
 in broadband penetration on economic growth in high and low/middle income economics




                         Qiang 2009. “Telecommunications and Economic Growth”



31      The project fits with the countries’ overall development strategies. The ICT sector in
Sub-Saharan Africa directly contributed to economic growth by generating US$50 billion of
investment between 1998 and 2008. As the sector has grown, it has also stimulated other areas of
the economy through reductions in the cost of doing business. The CAB APL1B project will
result in a significant reduction in the cost of international bandwidth in Chad and CAR and this
is expected to have a similar impact. The project therefore fits with the country assistance
strategies for the two countries. It will directly support the countries’ strategies, as articulated in
the PRSP and Country Partnership Strategy for CAR and Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for Chad
through boosting economic growth, promoting investment, improving regional integration and
improving the delivery of public services.
32      CAB leverages private sector investment. In the project countries, as in most countries
in Africa, the private sector is the primary investor in the telecommunications market. Public
support for strategically important projects such as CAB1B has to be provided in a way that does
not crowd-out private investment or interfere with the operation of competitive markets. Public
sector support for the infrastructure in this project will therefore be provided through a PPP,
leveraging private investment and operating expertise to meeting national objectives of better
connectivity and regional integration. This boost in private investment will not only benefit the
sector. It will also have positive knock on effects through improvements in the business climate
and demonstration effects that investors are able to do profitable business within the countries.
33      Developing regional communications infrastructure to address the challenges of
being landlocked. The CAB APL1B project directly targets one of the major constraints on the
economic development of both Chad and CAR – their geographical position. By connecting the
countries to the global broadband networks, the projects will reduce the cost of doing business,
particularly for those businesses in which communications with other countries is an essential
component.

                                                  19
34      The project will stimulate further sector reform and investment. The CAB network
will be a supplier of bandwidth to the markets in Chad and CAR on a wholesale basis and at low
prices. It will not be allowed to discriminate between buyers, having to offer the same terms and
conditions to all downstream players. This dramatic improvement in the supply and affordability
of international bandwidth will reduce the cost of providing retail broadband services to
customer and make them significantly more commercially viable. This has been the experience
of Kenya and Nigeria where low international bandwidth prices have led to rapid growth in the
number of people using broadband Internet. Once broadband is seen as a commercially attractive
service, operators will invest more in the infrastructure required to provide it. They will also put
more pressure on the governments to complete the reform agenda by fully liberalizing the fixed-
line segments of the market and by making radio-spectrum more widely available. The domestic
political pressure will be complemented by the technical assistance provided by the CAB
APL1A project to the institutions responsible for the reforms.


   II. Project Development Objectives
35     The development objective of the proposed project is consistent with the PDO for
the CAB Program: to contribute to increase geographical reach and usage of regional
broadband network services and reduce their prices.


           A. Project Beneficiaries
36      Direct beneficiaries of the project include people who may be connected to the
internet via fixed or mobile lines. Indirect beneficiaries potentially include all of the citizens,
businesses and governments of Central Africa through increased access to lower cost and higher
quality communications and reduced transactions costs.


           B. PDO Level Results Indicators
37      The CAB APL1B project will use a results-based approach. CAB APL1B is using a
results based approach with dedicated resources to follow monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
frameworks at both the national and regional levels to ensure that intended results are achieved.




                                                20
                   Table 2: Summary of Monitoring and Evaluation Framework


Project                                                                Value by closing date
                     Outcome Indicators for CAB APL1B
Development
                                                                       Chad             CAR
Objective (PDO)
To contribute to      International Communications (Internet,          400              130
increase               Telecoms, and Data) bandwidth (Mbits/s)
geographical
reach and usage       Internet subscribers per 100 inhabitants          5                5
of regional
broadband             Total teledensity (active fixed and mobile       57                47
network services       subscribers per 100 inhabitants)
and reduce their
                      Average monthly price of international         <$2000           <$2000
prices, in Chad
                       capacity link (E1 or 2Mbts) from the capital
and CAR
                       city to Europe
                      Number of direct project beneficiaries         600,000          400,000
                       (o/w % female)                                   (50)             (50)
                      Geographic reach of mobile services:             55                46
                       Coverage of mobile network (percentage of
                       population covered)


38      Broader impact of the project. In addition to the direct beneficiaries of the project
(people gaining access to improved and more affordable international communication services),
the impact of the CAB APL1B project is expected to be felt across the countries’ economies. At
the moment, mass-market telecommunications in both countries is limited to mobile voice
telephony. Although this has revolutionized access to communications for many people, there are
limitations on the wider impact that it can have across the economy and society. The project is
intended to lower the price of more sophisticated communications services such as broadband
Internet. The experience of other parts of Africa shows that there is strong demand for these
services, once they are made available on an affordable basis. Once these services become more
widespread, they become a platform for delivery of services, a tool for providing access to global
information resources and a channel for developing entrepreneurial ideas. The project will take
these wider effects into consideration when monitoring the overall impact of the project.


   III. Project Description
           A. Project components
39     Overall aim of the project. The CAB APL1B project will develop a regional fiber-optic
network that connects CAR and Chad to networks in Cameroon and Sudan. The project will be
implemented as a Public Private Partnership (PPP) in which the Private Partner will partly
finance, build, own and operate the network. The Private Partner will be selected by the two
governments through an international tender process on the basis of a minimum-public
contribution selection process. The Private Partner will be ultimately responsible for financing,

                                                    21
building and operating the regional network under the terms laid out in a PPP Agreement that
will be signed between the partner and the two governments.
40     Use of project funds. Part of the project funds will finance operating costs, goods, works
and services in the form of a public contribution that will be paid to the PPP structure to be set up
by the Private Partner. The amount of this contribution will be determined through the tender
process and it will be paid in tranches against the partner successfully meeting pre-defined
implementation milestones. The final tranche will be paid when the network is fully built and is
operating satisfactorily. The Project will be executed over a five-year period with total financing
of US$20 million in CAR and US$38 million in Chad. The project has two main components in
each country. Component 1 focuses on connectivity with funds being targeted at the public
contribution to the PPP structure to build and operate the regional fiber-optic network.
Component 2 focuses on project management and additional technical assistance. These project
components are summarized in Table 3.


                                  Table 3: Project components
                                                                               Project cost
                                                                              (US$ million)
                        Project components                                  CAR          Chad
 Component 1 – Connectivity                                                  18.9           35.5
  (i)     CAB-related environmental and resettlements
          consultancies in CAR and Chad.
  (ii)    Financing the PPP structure to develop and operate the
          link between Bangui and Bemal to Chad border. The
          network will include fiber-optic cables, terminal
          equipment, and switches.
  (iii)   Financing the PPP structure to develop and operate the
          link between N’Djamena to Adré to the Sudan border and
          the link between Doba and Goré to the CAR border.
  (iv)    Provision of technical assistance, including for the
          review, improvement and development of information
          laws, “cyber” legal and institutional framework, including
          with respect to cybersecurity, cybercrimes, privacy,
          promotion of the ICT sector and support to the national
          entities in charge of ICT.
 Component 2 – Project Management                                            1.1            2.5
  (i)     Support to finance management at the Project level, such
          as human resources support with general project
          management, procurement, financial management, M&E,
          internal and external audit, and communications
          expertise, operating expenses and equipment.
 Total                                                                       20.0           38.0


                                                 22
           B. Project Financing
41      The financing instrument is a Regional IDA horizontal Adaptable Program Loan
(APL). The CAB program is structured as both a horizontal and vertical APL. Phase 1 of the
horizontal program includes CAR, Cameroon and Chad. It is also structured as a vertical APL
and has two stages: CAB APL1A and CAB APL1B. CAB APL1A was approved in 2009 and is
under implementation. CAB APL1B in CAR is fully financed by IDA. CAB APL1B in Chad is
financed by IDA together with counterpart funding from the Government of Chad as necessary
(see next paragraph). The overall composition of financing for both phases of the CAB APL 1
project (CAB APL 1A and CAB APL 1B) is given in Table 4.


                     Table 4: CAB APL 1 project financing (US$ million)
                        Cameroon         CAR                   Chad                   Total
   Funding source          IDA           IDA           IDA        Government
   CAB APL1A                9.9           7.3           9.0                           26.2
   CAB APL1B                             20.0          30.0            8.0            58.0
   Total                    9.9          27.3          39.0            8.0            84.2


42      Potential supplementary private investment. The construction of the network is
expected to cost a total of US$53 million: US$18 million in CAR and US$35 million in Chad.
The construction of the network can therefore be fully financed by the project funds. However,
the private sector is expected to contribute some financing towards the project. The Private
Partner will be selected through a competitive tender which will determine the amount of the
public contribution that is required. The Private Partner will be required to provide any
additional financing that is needed, over and above this public contribution, to fund the
construction and operation of the network. These amounts (i.e. the amount of the public
contribution and the amount to be contributed by the Private Partner) will be determined through
the tender process. In the event that the Private Partner is willing to invest a significant amount
of funds in the project, any surplus funds will be applied first to reduce the counterpart funding
requirement from the government of Chad (up to US$8 million) and second to extend the
network, connecting more towns and cities and thereby extending the impact of the international
connectivity to more of the country’s population. The tender and PPP Agreement documents will
be structured to allow the flexibility to use these surplus funds. As a regional project, IDA
financing is being provided from both national and regional IDA allocations. If, as a result of
surplus finances, additional routes were added to the project, it would be confirmed that the
proposed additional routes are consistent with the objectives of regional IDA funding and that
use of IDA funds abide by the World Bank policies and rules on fraud and corruption as well as
on safeguards.
43     The project complements the plans of other development financing institutions
(DFIs). The World Bank has been working closely with other DFIs during the development of
the whole CAB program. The African Development Bank (AfDB) has financed the transaction
advisor (including an investment bank) that is undertaking the advisory services to the

                                                23
governments. AfDB and the Islamic Development Bank (IDB) are committed to the model of
implementation through a PPP and have expressed interest in financing additional network
infrastructure and e-government services that would utilize the network financed by the World
Bank and built under the CAB APL1B project. The details of the investment and the timeframe
for this have not yet been finalized but the institutions have indicated that they are aiming to get
their projects approval during 2011-12. Achieving CAB APL1B’s PDO will not be dependent on
these other projects.
44      The project also complements the activities of IFC and MIGA. IFC provided
financing to Millicom in Chad in 2009 and MIGA provides political risk insurance for Orange in
CAR. The CAB APL1B project will significantly reduce the cost of international bandwidth
making it more commercially attractive to provide broadband services to end-users and reducing
the cost of doing business. The project therefore complements the work of the IFC and MIGA in
the two countries.
45       Triggers for moving from CAB APL1A to CAB APL1B. Under CAB APL1A, two
triggers were identified for progression to the second stage of the project, CAB APL 1B: (i) the
establishment by the Recipients and other stakeholders of a legal structure that would allow for
the installation and management of the CAB network in accordance with public private
partnership (PPP) principles and Open Access regime; and (ii) the CAB legal structure has
established the legal rights to install, manage and operate the CAB network on the recipient
governments’ territories. These original triggers have not been met. The legal review carried out
after the approval of CAB APL1A by the PPP transaction advisor advising both countries has
made clear that the two triggers can only be met once the Private Partner has been selected. The
transaction advisor also advised that the commitment of IDA resources for the CAB APL1B (for
infrastructure investment) prior to initiating the international competitive bidding process would
significantly strengthen the interest of potential private sector partners given perceived country
risks for Chad and Central African Republic. Based on the above rationale, it is proposed that the
triggers for approving CAB APL1B are modified to: having received written commitment from
recipient governments to the principles underlying the specifics of the PPP structure as defined
by the investment bank advising the governments on the PPP transaction. Although the specified
legal PPP structures have not yet been implemented, consensus has been reached among
recipient governments on the specifics of the structure of the PPP. The governments have
committed in writing to implementing the necessary measures related to the PPP structure (Letter
from Government of CAR dated April 15, 2011 signed by the Prime Minister, and letter from
Government of Chad dated April 26, 2011, signed by the Minister of Plan and Economy). The
proposed modified triggers to progress to CAB APL1B are therefore met. The original triggers
are still both relevant to the success of the proposed project. Therefore, these have been largely
incorporated into the project's milestones, as legal conditions and covenants under the Financing
Agreements to be signed with the Bank.


           C. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design
46     The project incorporates lessons learned from current projects in CAR and Chad
and also in other countries where PPPs have been established to implement
telecommunications infrastructure projects. The CAB APL1A operation is already underway
in CAR and Chad and provides valuable lessons for the design and implementation of this

                                                24
APL1B project. One of these concerns the availability of suitably skilled staff to implement the
project which has proved to be a challenge in CAB APL1A. CAB APL1B will be implemented
by the same institutions so similar difficulties will not be experienced. Examples of lessons
learned from the design and implementation of projects in other countries in Africa are provided
below.
47       The project builds on the World Bank’s Technical Assistance provided under the
CAB APL1A operation in Chad and CAR. CAB APL1A was approved in 2009 and has been
effective since mid-2010. CAB APL1A focuses on technical assistance, including capacity
building for the regulator, restructuring of SOEs and legislative reforms. The work carried out
under CAB APL1A underscored the importance of a sound regulatory environment in order for
investment projects to have the desired positive impact on customers. It is also founded on the
principle that projects should be implemented through existing institutions rather than creating
new, parallel structures for implementation. It is therefore supporting existing regulatory
institutions and the role of the CEMAC Commission is being strengthened through a
complementary technical assistance exercise funded through an IDF grant. Experience with CAB
APL1A has provided an in-depth understanding of the political economy of the sector in both
CAR and Chad which has been incorporated into the design of the PPP and the implementation
arrangements of CAB APL1B.
48      Government commitment to the project objectives and design is essential. A lesson
from other telecommunications infrastructure projects, particularly with complex PPP structures,
is that government commitment to the objectives of the project and the underlying design
principles are essential. Following the meetings held in Bangui on 15 and 16 November 2010,
and review by the Ministerial Management Committee for the Central African Regional Fiber-
Optic Network Project on 17 November 2010, the two governments submitted to CEMAC their
positions regarding the structuring of CAB APL1B and confirmed their commitment to the
concept of implementing the project through a PPP and applying the principles of open-access in
its implementation.
49      The project fits within a regional political context. Regional integration of markets,
infrastructure and institutions is a key policy objective across Africa and particularly in Central
Africa where the landlocked position of CAR and Chad presents major constraints on economic
development. There is a strong push for regional integration at the level of national and regional
political institutions, with associated strong support for this project. This political drive has
provided a foundation for the development of the project and the project design reflects the
results of this process.
50      The interconnectedness of communications networks is at the heart of the project
design and implementation arrangements. Telecommunications networks are interconnected
in multiple ways. There can be many different links in the chain that connects customers to the
global telecommunications system. This is particularly important for landlocked countries as
they are dependent on transit via networks in neighboring countries for access to submarine
cables. This is the key reason why the CAB APL1B project has been designed as a regional
project rather than a series of national projects. It is based on the experience of the RCIP
program in East Africa5 which has focused, in part, on improving the supply of affordable

5
 The World bank 10-year multi phase Regional Communications Infrastructure Program (RCIP) assists East
&South African countries to implement a strategy of effective connectivity through (i) Technical assistance to

                                                        25
bandwidth to landlocked countries such as Rwanda, Burundi, and Malawi. The CAB APL1B
project will develop infrastructure into the two countries but this infrastructure has been designed
as a single network and is being financed, implemented and operated as a single commercial
entity.
51      Public Private Partnerships (PPP). Global experience in the telecommunications sector
shows that investment in and operation of telecommunications assets are best done by the private
sector. Where networks will have a positive net economic impact but are not necessarily
commercially viable in the short-run, there is a role of public financial support. In order to
maximize the total amount of investment and to ensure that the network is operated efficiently,
this public support should be channeled through a PPP. The CAB APL1B project has been
designed to build on this experience by placing the PPP structure at the center of the project.
52      Open-access is essential if the project is to have a positive impact on the sector. One
of the central lessons of reform in the telecommunications sector in Africa and around the world
is that monopoly control of infrastructure severely restricts the development of the sector. Open-
access, in which all users can obtain access to services on reasonable and non discriminatory
basis, is therefore essential if investments in infrastructure are to have the maximum economic
impact. Direct infrastructure competition, where feasible, is the best way to deliver this. Where
direct competition is not feasible for economic reasons, regulatory controls to ensure open-access
are required. The design of the CAB APL1B project has these controls built in through the PPP
contractual structure and the associated regulatory framework. This is based on the lessons
learned from the RCIP program and the EASSy project6 in which open-access has been built into
the contractual structure of the PPP.
53      Market structure is as important as the availability of infrastructure. In the
telecommunications sector, investment and service delivery is largely determined by the
structure of the market. Where monopolies exist, investment is reduced and prices remain high.
Competition throughout the supply chain is therefore essential if low-cost, high-quality services
are to be available to customers. This is clearly seen in East Africa where international
bandwidth prices are much higher in countries such as Tanzania and Mozambique where there is
relatively less competition than in countries such as Kenya where there is intense competition.
The same lesson has been learned as a result of the experience of the SAT-3 submarine cable on
the west coast of Africa which has enjoyed a monopoly in each of the countries in which it lands.
The core design of the CAB APL1B project is based on this lesson. The project will create an
alternative route out to the international networks for Chad and CAR which will avoid the
current dependency on satellites and the terrestrial route via Cameroon. The fundamental design
of the project is therefore based on the principle of infrastructure competition as the primary
driver of increased supplies of bandwidth and lower prices.



promote further sector liberalization and resolve market efficiency gaps; (ii) Financing of coordinated backbone
deployment to avoid redundant infrastructure initiatives and focus on missing links; and (iii) Public private
partnership (PPP) arrangements to leverage private sector investment
6
  The Eastern Africa Submarine Cable System (EASSy) is a 10,000 km undersea fibre optic cable system connecting
countries of eastern Africa to the rest of the world. The Project partially funded by the World Bank, was initiated on
January 2003. The Wold Bank also provided Technical Assistance and intensive policy dialogue from 2005 to 2008
to structure the development partners’ participation and secure mechanisms for the necessary enforcement of policy
objectives such as open access The cable entered service on July 2010.

                                                         26
54      Requiring the private sector to adopt World Bank systems and processes. Any PPP
funded by the World Bank involves a partnership between the private sector and the
government(s) and requires an open transparent competitive bidding procedure acceptable to the
World Bank to be followed. In this project, this procurement process is carried out at the partner
selection stage, according to Section 3.14(a) of the World Bank procurement guidelines. Once
selected, the partner follows their own procurement procedures for purchasing network
equipment but will still be required to use World Bank policies and rules regarding fraud and
corruption as well as safeguards.
Project readiness
55      Project Readiness. One of the key determinants of the speed at which projects are
implemented is the extent of preparation and implementation that is done prior to World Bank
approval of the project. The CAB APL1A project is supporting the required sector regulatory
capacity building and regulatory reforms that are needed for the success of the project. The CAB
APL1A project has experienced some delays in becoming fully operational. These have been
mainly due to the difficulty in recruiting staff with suitable experience in this specialized
technical area. This process has now been completed and the project is fully underway. Since
CAB APL1B will be implemented by these same staff, no similar problems are expected in this
project. Separately, a firm of advisors (the transaction advisor) has been working on the project
for over two years, funded by an African Development Bank Trust Fund. These advisors have
engaged in extensive discussion and consensus building with the countries in the program to
develop a model of implementation which is acceptable to all countries. It has also carried out
extensive technical, legal and financial due-diligence which has been incorporated into the
project design. They have also started work on the preparation of tender documents which will
be used to select the Private Partner. Significant progress has therefore been made in the
preparation and readiness of the CAB APL1B project.


   IV. Implementation
           A. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
56      The project design combines both regional and national dimensions. The two
governments will be responsible for designing and implementing the procurement process,
undertaking expenditures, and monitoring and evaluation. In order to perform these functions,
the governments will utilize structures that have already been set up during CAB APL1A,
specifically the Project Coordination Units (PCUs) as well as the transaction adviser recruited
under a Trust Fund from the African Development Bank to help carry out the selection of the
CAB network Private Partner. The PCUs will have day-to-day responsibility for project
implementation and supervision. The PCUs in both countries are already fully established,
staffed and operational. The PCUs come under the oversight of the two sector ministries – the
MPTNT in CAR and the MPTIC in Chad. The Private Partner will be jointly selected to build
the network in both countries so that it is implemented and operates as a regional network, rather
than two national networks. In order to achieve this, the design of the tender documents and the
selection of the Private Partner have to be undertaken jointly by both countries. The governments
have therefore agreed to nominate a joint technical team to carry out the tender design and
procurement. With the support of the transaction advisor, the technical team will make unified
decisions and these decisions will be referred back to their national governments for sign-off and

                                               27
forwarding to the World Bank for no-objection as necessary. The joint technical team will be
made of experts from both countries, including from the two PCUs (project coordinators, PPP
experts), from the two line ministries and from the two existing national Technical Committees
(see Annex 3a and 3b).
57      Implementation structures have already been established under the CAB APL1A
project and will be further strengthened. The PCUs set up under the CAB APL1A project will
have ongoing responsibility for the implementation of the CAB APL1B project. The two projects
will be implemented in parallel. CAB APL1A is currently providing support to the regulatory
reforms that are needed to improve the development of the sector while CAB APL1B will
provide investment to overcome one of the countries’ major infrastructure bottlenecks. CAB1A
has been effective since 2010 and focuses on support for regulatory and policy reform in the
telecommunications sector. The CAB APL1A and APL1B projects are highly complementary
and implementation by the same teams in both countries will ensure that they are fully
coordinated with each other. Current financial management performance under APL1A is rated
moderately satisfactory and meets the minimum requirements for financial management under
OP/BP 10.02. Financial Management arrangements are in place and working to Bank's
satisfaction; procurement staff are in place and able to manage all contracts.
58       The CEMAC Commission has a key coordinating role. The CEMAC Commission has
been playing a key role of convening the governments involved in the project preparation and of
facilitating policy and design decisions. This role will continue during implementation. CEMAC
will be responsible for facilitating the interaction between the two governments in making the
decisions that are to be undertaken jointly, such as procurement of the Private Partner. While the
CEMAC Commission does not have an executive function in these decisions, its position as the
regional political body ensures that it has the power to convene and facilitate. Technical support
will continue to be provided to the CEMAC Commission through the PCUs in CAR and Chad
and via the IDF supported technical assistance project.
59      Role of the transaction advisor. The transaction advisor (a consortium of investment
bank Compagnie Financière Cadmos, the law firm Eversheds, the audit firm KPMG and the
technical expert agency JIDCOM) was appointed to assist the governments, partners of the CAB
Project and CEMAC. The transaction advisor is a key element of the arrangements for the
successful implementation of CAB APL1B. The transaction advisor has notably defined the
public-private partnership structure and built country consensus on that structure. The
transaction advisor is also organizing the selection of the Private Partner for the development,
operation and maintenance of the CAB International network (drafting the bidding
documentation and supporting the joint technical team during the selection process).
60     Role of the Private Partner. The Private Partner (through the PPP structure to be set up)
will be ultimately responsible for financing, building, maintaining and operating the regional
network under the terms laid out in a PPP Agreement that will be signed between the partner and
the two governments (see annex 2 for more detailed information on the selection of the Private
Partner).
61      The project requires close coordination between the two counties. The joint nature of
the project requires close coordination between the two countries. This has already been
established during the preparation of the project and this provides a sound foundation for further
cooperation in future. However, some degree of formalization of these joint working

                                               28
arrangements will be needed to ensure that project implementation progresses smoothly. The
governments will therefore sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that will detail the
way in which common regulatory oversight, procurement procedures, disbursement and
monitoring and evaluation will operate.
62      Other stakeholders. The project is designed to benefit the whole sector in both CAR and
Chad. The PPP structure will serve as a wholesale provider of international capacity to operators
and ISPs. There are therefore several stakeholders in the project, beyond just the Private Partner,
which include these downstream service providers and the governments which are co-financing
the project. The project design therefore includes an option for these stakeholders to have a more
direct role in the project through minority shareholdings in PPP at the local level (see below for a
description of the structure of the PPP). This structure is being developed by the advisors
working on the project and will be specified in the PPP Agreement and included in the tender
documents.
63     Timeline for implementation. The preparation of the legal and licensing framework and
bidding documents, signed off by governments and regulators, is expected to be completed by
September 2011. The selection of the Private Partner and the signing of the PPP Agreements is
expected to be completed by March 27, 2012. Network construction is expected to be completed
by March 2014 and the network is expected to be commercially available by mid-2014.


           B. Results Monitoring and Evaluation
64      Monitoring and evaluation will be done at the national level, in coordination with
regional bodies. The PCUs in CAR and Chad will bear the primary responsibility for project
monitoring and evaluation (M&E), and, as such, will establish standard formats and guidelines
for data collection and reporting, and will organize training sessions for project stakeholders in
their use. This is the M&E institutional structure that was developed under the CAB APL1A and
will therefore provide continuity between the two projects. The M&E framework for the project
has been designed to ensure that it is consistent with the existing sector M&E activities
undertaken by the countries. The indicators selected are therefore consistent with the data already
collected by the MPTNT and the ART in CAR and by the MPTIC and the OTRT in Chad.
65      The CEMAC Commission will also play a role in M&E. The CEMAC Commission’s
role as facilitator of the project will extend to M&E. It will be responsible for ensuring that the
two governments’ M&E activities are consistent and coordinated and will ensure that any
difficulties in this area are discussed and rectified as soon as possible. It will also be responsible
for M&E reporting at the regional level, providing liaison with other regional and international
bodies.
66     The views of direct beneficiaries will be brought into the monitoring and evaluation
process. Comprehensive M&E reporting will be needed to monitor the results and performance
of the project. It will involve mainly the direct beneficiaries of project activities, but will be
extended to other beneficiaries such as telecommunications operators and private ICT firms,
which ultimately are the main beneficiaries of the project’s outcomes. The governments will also
monitor the impact of the project on ultimate beneficiaries and will estimate the number of
female beneficiaries of the project. The PCUs will review and validate the reports on
performance indicators and recommend corrective action if necessary.

                                                 29
67      Support will be provided to the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) functions of the
two governments and to the CEMAC Commission. The CAB APL1A project is providing
comprehensive support to the M&E functions of both governments. This support will be
continued during the implementation of CAB APL1B and will be tailored to ensure that it meets
the M&E requirements of the project. CEMAC will also continue to receive technical assistance
covering M&E provided to it under the IDF grant (CEMAC - Strengthening capacity in the
Telecom & IT sector - IDF Grant P109923). Although the PCUs have established sufficient
M&E capacity under APL1A, data collection mechanisms involved sometimes several
stakeholders such as operators, or surveys, and data is not always available on time. The main
reason is that formal mechanisms have not yet been put in place for some indicators. Extensive
discussions with both PCUs carried out during appraisal allowed for the identification of gaps in
information flow. The formalization of these mechanisms will be finalized at the beginning of
implementation, once the M&E focal points within each source of data (see Annex 1) have been
identified.

           C. Sustainability

68      Sustainability will be ensured through the involvement of the private sector. In the
telecommunications sector, the key to sustainability is to involve the private sector from the
outset and to ensure that private investors have a direct financial stake in the continued operation
of the infrastructure. The implementation of this project through a PPP in which the private
investor will have a significant investment in the infrastructure, together with responsibility for
operation and management, will therefore help to ensure the sustainability of the project. The
governments’ clear commitment at the highest political levels will also ensure sustainability over
the medium-term.
69       Training and capacity building is key to long-term sustainability of the project. The
impact of the project will be dependent on the successful monitoring and enforcement of the PPP
Agreement throughout the course of the project. This will continue beyond the close of the
World Bank funding so it is essential that the required supervision and enforcement capacity is
built into the PPP Agreement and into the institutions that are responsible for its enforcement
(i.e. the sector Ministries and the regulators). Extensive technical assistance for capacity building
is built into both the CAB APL1A and the CAB APL1B project and this will be tailored to meet
this requirement. Private investors also face significant capacity constraints in the
telecommunications sector. Operators often face a challenge in finding suitably qualified
technical and professional staff to run their businesses. This is even more difficult when the
operators are moving into new segments of the market such as broadband and fiber-optic
infrastructure. They usually deal with this by running training and capacity building programs
that provide a sufficient supply of trained staff but this is usually expensive and takes time to
implement. Potential bidders for the building an operation of the regional network in this project
would be aware of such labor supply constraints and would factor this into their bids for the
project.




                                                 30
   V. Key Risks
70      The CAB APL1B project is ambitious and includes significant risks and benefits at
the regional and country level. Potential risks are summarized in the Operational Risk
Assessment Framework. The overall project risk to preparation is rated MI (medium driven by
impact) and the overall risk to implementation is rated MI (medium driven by impact). Risks
identified are manageable and mitigation measures are in place. Should additional risks arise
during the implementation phase of the project, additional mitigation measures will be
considered as part of project supervision.
71      A significant risk is related to the PPP scheme. A PPP is, by its nature, a complex
structure, particularly when it is about a large and multi-country project. There are therefore risks
that the PPP structure is set up incorrectly or that its design results in unanticipated consequences
for the project implementation. Such risks could lead to delays in project implementation and
may reduce the interest of private investors in the project. This risk is being addressed by the
engagement of a firm of international advisors with expertise in the design and implementation
of similar structures around the world. The team of advisors is made up of and Investment Bank
consortium (Compagnie Financière Cadmos), a law firm (Eversheds), an audit firm (KPMG) and
a firm of technical experts (JIDCOM). This provides deep international knowledge of the sector
and the potential pitfalls of these structures. The team of advisors has spent considerable time
and resources designing options for the PPP structure and developing consensus among the
parties to select one PPP structure. This has provided a good platform for a technically sound
project design which will be successfully implemented.
72      The telecommunications sector is exposed to fraudulent practices. The
telecommunications sector in Africa has been very profitable for many investors and this has
attracted significant levels of corruption. Robust anti corruption structures and mechanisms are
not always in place in African countries and can put complex transactions such as PPPs at risk.
However, the project has been designed to reduce this risk wherever possible. The Private
Partner will be selected through an international competitive bidding process, according to
World Bank rules, and the selection will be made by a joint government team with
representatives of both countries. This will help to reduce risk of corruption at the initial stage of
the project. The subsequent procurement of network equipment will be done by the Private
Partner according to the partner’s own procurement practices but the partner will, under the
terms of the PPP Agreement, be required to follow World Bank anticorruption policies and
procedures ("Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects
Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in
January 2011). This will further help to reduce the risk of corruption at the second stage of
project implementation. Finally, payment of the public contribution to the PPP structure will
only be made against clear and objective milestones which are defined in the PPP Agreement
and which will be jointly verified by the two governments.
73      The regional nature of the project creates its own risks. The project covers two
countries and the benefits will only be fully achieved if it is successfully implemented in both of
them. The historical political instability in the region and the complex nature of the project
means that this interdependence of two countries may create additional risks. A further regional
risk relates to the situation in Sudan and relations between Chad and Sudan. If these were to
significantly deteriorate, this could result in delays to project implementation (discussed below).
These risks have been mitigated through careful design of the project drawing on the experience

                                                 31
of other projects implementing PPPs in telecommunications infrastructure and comparable
structures in other sectors. It is also being addressed through the clear formal delineation of roles
and responsibilities of the two countries in key areas such as financing and procurement.
74      Investment risks. The project will require the Private Partner to invest significant
amounts in fixed infrastructure in both countries. This creates the normal investment risk
associated with the sector but, in this case, the project risk is likely to be higher than is the case
for regular mobile network projects. This is partly due to nature of the infrastructure (i.e. fiber-
optic cables which have high fixed costs, can be vulnerable to technical problems and typically
have high operating costs). It is also because the ultimate determinant of revenue for the partner
will be the rate of take-up of broadband Internet. While there is emerging evidence of the strong
demand for this in East Africa and in Nigeria, it remains a largely untested product in the Central
Africa region. There is therefore more commercial risk associated with the project than would
the case for a mobile operator with a tried and tested revenue model. However, the international
operators that are expected to bid for the project have direct experience of the commercial
viability of broadband in Africa so they will be well placed to put a valuation on these project
risks.
75      Governance and regulation risks. The success of the project is dependent on a sound
regulatory environment and strong supervision of the project. Without this, the project may be
successful in terms of getting the infrastructure built but may not translate into benefits to end-
users. For the increases in the supply of low-cost bandwidth to feed through into lower prices
and better quality of services for customers, a well regulated, competitive market is needed. This
is only partially the case currently in both CAR and Chad where the fixed line market remains a
monopoly. Support is being given to both governments to implement sector reforms. It is also
expected that the CAB APL1B project itself will provide an impetus to reform the sector since
the governments will only achieve a return on their investment if the downstream market is fully
liberalized and private investors are allow to build network and offer innovative services.
76      Sudanese-Chadian relationship. The conflict in Sudan’s Darfur region has occasionally
threatened to affect Chad and the Central African Republic. Deterioration of the relationship may
impact the availability of onward connectivity. The relationship between the two countries
improved dramatically after the President of Chad visited Khartoum in February 2010 and the
countries committed themselves to joint military border patrols. Private sector operators have
confirmed during project preparation that they do not foresee any major political or regulatory
challenges to connecting networks across the border.


   VI. Appraisal Summary
           A. Economic and Financial Analysis
77      The project will result in major savings to the users of international bandwidth.
With the 34Mbps of international capacity being purchased at present by the CAR and 140Mbps
by the Chad, a fiber route providing capacity at between US$300 and US$400/Mbps/month
should represent an annual saving to operators of about US$1.5 million in CAR and US$5
million in Chad when compared to current costs of about US$4000/Mbps/month for satellite
bandwidth. This saving would be expected to increase dramatically as bandwidth utilization
levels increase to reach levels seen in other African countries where bandwidth costs have been

                                                 32
reduced by a factor of ten or more. With reduced access costs, Internet penetration levels are also
expected to increase substantially among lower income groups, further increasing international
bandwidth requirements and the consequent savings over satellite bandwidth costs. As a
conservative indication, if only 10% of the population accessed a 'low-speed' broadband link of
256Kbps, this would require about 4.5Gbps in CAR and 11Gbps in Chad of international
capacity, which would cost over US$200 million per year in CAR and US$500 million per year
in Chad if provided by satellite at current prices, compared to about US$20 million in CAR and
US$50 million in Chad if provided by terrestrial fiber.
78     Financial viability. A financial viability study of the technical options was made
available for Chad and CAR to improve international connectivity by implementing a cross-
border fiber link, while also taking into account the benefits of the link to the population centers
along the way to the border, along with addressing other 'downstream' constraints to effective
uptake of the international bandwidth. This study provides indications of the economic and
financial justification for investments as well as possible structuring options for such
investments, so as to achieve the affordable connectivity at the most accessible rates for the
country.
79       Analysis shows a positive rate of return on the project. Different scenarios were
developed to compare initial fiber deployment versus initial microwave deployment until about
1Gbps capacity is reached, and to compare just international traffic vs inclusion of domestic
traffic. In CAR, the IRR varies from 0.6% to 10.6% depending on the traffic assumptions, with
two alternative pricing scenarios for domestic capacity ranging from US$100/Mbps/Month to
US$120/Mbps/Month. In Chad, the IRR varies from 3.5% to 40.7% depending on the traffic
assumptions, with two alternative pricing scenarios for domestic capacity ranging from
US$40/Mbps/Month to US$100/Mbps/Month.

           B. Technical

80      Overall project description. The aim of the project is to develop a fiber-optic network
that connects CAR to Chad and Chad to the border with Sudan. This will provide both countries
with intra-regional connectivity and with a second route to connect to the international
submarine cable network. It will complement the one that is soon to be commissioned via
Cameroon to the SAT-3 submarine fiber-optic cable. The project will involve installing fiber-
optic cables and the associated network equipment along the specified routes. In CAR, the cable
will run between Bangui and the Chad border (Bemal) via Bossembele and Boassangoa. In Chad,
the network will run from the CAR border to N’Djamena and then on to the border with Sudan.
The section of the route in Chad that runs between N’Djamena and Doba, already has a fiber-
optic cable installed which was built by the regulator in Chad. This section of fiber-optic cable
will be made available to be incorporated into the regional network (see Annex 2).
81      The project will be implemented as a Public Private Partnership (PPP). The
transaction advisor appointed to assist CEMAC and the governments, partners of the CAB
Project, has developed consensus among the parties to implement the CAB project as a PPP. The
Private Partner (through the PPP structure to be set up) will be ultimately responsible for
financing, building, maintaining and operating the regional network under the terms laid out in a
PPP Agreement that will be signed between the partner and the two governments. The agreement
will specify the Private Partner’s obligations concerning the construction and operation of the

                                                33
network, including the technical specifications of the network, operating parameters and price
controls. The Private Partner will be required to set up a holding company to run the project and
two subsidiary operating companies, one in each country. The local operating companies will be
required to be incorporated in CAR and Chad and they will own and operate the network assets
in each country under telecommunications licenses awarded by the two countries.
82       Costs and financing. The cost of constructing the network is estimated at US$53 million
Project funds will be used to fund a public contribution to the financing of the network to make
sure it is commercially viable. This contribution will be paid to the structure set up by the Private
Partner in installments linked to milestones in the implementation of the project. The milestones
and associated conditions relating to the payment of public contribution installments will be
defined in the PPP Agreement.
83      The selection of the Private Partner will be done through an International
Competitive Bidding process. The bidder that requires the least amount of public contribution
to finance, build, maintain and operate the network or alternatively offers to provide international
bandwidth at the lowest price, subject to a minimum quality threshold, will be selected. Once the
Private Partner is selected and a level of public contribution is defined and included in the PPP
Agreement, the Private Partner will be committed through the PPP structure to building the
network and delivering the services, as defined in the PPP Agreement.
84      Regulation of the network. The network to be built under the project will be in a strong
market position and will therefore need regulating, particularly in the areas of price, service
definition and service quality. This regulation will be done in two ways. The PPP Agreement
will contain all of these operating specifications (including price ceilings) and will be a binding
contract between the governments and the Private Partner. In addition, the Private Partner will be
operating, via its local subsidiaries, as licensed telecommunications operators and will be subject
to the normal regulatory rules of each of the countries. The arrangements related to the common
regulatory oversight of the holding company will be specified as part of the Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) to be signed by the two governments as described in paragraph 61 (these
arrangements will also be spelt out in the bidding documentation).
85      Project implementation will be done jointly by the two governments. This is a
regional project and the network built will operate as a single commercial entity. However, it is
being implemented in two countries. Some actions, such as the procurement of the Private
Partner, will be undertaken jointly by the governments. Other actions, such as requests for
funding from the World Bank to pay an installment of the public contribution to the PPP
structure, will be undertaken separately by the two governments but in consultation with each
other. The two governments will therefore be working closely together throughout the project
and these working arrangements will be defined in the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU).
The CEMAC Commission will also support this by acting as a facilitator between the two
governments in the implementation of the project.
86      Services will be specified in the PPP Agreement. The PPP Agreement will include the
detailed requirements that the Private Partner and the PPP structure that will be set up will be
required to meet. These will include the technical specifications of the network, service
definitions, quality of service definitions and price controls. The network operator will be able to
provide services at a price below this ceiling if it wishes to but will not be able to exceed it. The
operator will be required to provide the network services on non-discriminatory terms so that all

                                                 34
users are able to obtain the services on terms that are at least as good as the best terms offered.
The draft PPP Agreement will be included in the tender documents along with drafts of the other
key legal documents such as licenses and shareholder agreements.
87      Onward connectivity. Key to the success of the project is the onward connections to the
submarine fiber-optic cables that land in Sudan and Cameroon. This will be achieved by the
CAB network connecting through Chad to its borders of Cameroon and Sudan. In Cameroon,
long-haul capacity currently remains a monopoly under CAMTEL while the long-haul market in
Sudan is already competitive with two long-haul fiber-optic cable operators operating there.
Taken together, Cameroon and Sudan provide multiple routes by which traffic can transit from
CAR and Chad to the landing points of the submarine cables. This will create the technical
redundancy on transit routes that will ensure quality of supply (i.e. international traffic can be
routed via Cameroon or on either route within Sudan which means that if there is a technical
problem on any of them, there will be no break in service). As the three transit routes are owned
by different operators, it also creates competition between them which will ensure downward
pressure on prices. There are four submarine cables that land at Port Sudan. Each provides
onward connectivity to the global communications networks and their diverse ownership means
that there is competition for this onward connectivity guaranteeing low prices for the offshore
component of the service. This is complemented by the link through Cameroon.
88      Investor interest in the project. The proposed route of the network bridges the
broadband infrastructure gap between the east and west coasts of Africa. This will be the only
such coast-to-coast bridge anywhere in Africa apart from South Africa. This has developmental
significance in itself but, from a commercial point of view, it is also attractive. The project is
therefore potentially of great interest to the private sector, particularly the operators with a pan-
Africa network footprint.
89      Potential for additional links financed by other development partners. The project
will directly benefit users in CAR and Chad and will indirectly affect users in Cameroon and
Sudan who will benefit from lower prices and increased capacity. However, there are also further
potential benefits that will benefit users in other countries. The project provides a platform for
extending the network to other international routes such as to Nigeria, South Sudan or the
Republic of Congo. There is significant interest from the African Development Bank and Islamic
Development Bank to support these extensions and the development partners (DFIs) have
indicated that they are aiming to get their project approvals during 2011-12.
90      The project is technically and economically viable on a standalone basis and is not
dependent on national backbone projects. The CAB network will provide international
capacity to customers in the major cities, particularly the capitals, to the international network
infrastructure. These customers include mobile operators, ISPs and large end-users (e.g. banks).
It will also provide transit capacity to customers in Cameroon and Sudan wishing to get trans-
Africa connectivity. From these main points of interconnection with the CAB network, operators
and ISPs can transport the capacity around the country on their own domestic networks.
Governments are also considering further development of national backbone networks.
Additional domestic network infrastructure will bring added value to the CAB International
network but it is not dependent on these government backbone projects happening.




                                                 35
           C. Financial Management
91      Financial management arrangements. Financial management arrangements for the
project have already been established in both countries under CAB APL1A. In April 2011 a
project supervision financial management report was submitted for CAB APL1A in CAR, the
overall rating was Moderately Satisfactory. In February, 2011 a project supervision financial
management report was concluded for CAB APL1A in Chad with an Overall rating of
Moderately Satisfactory. The financial management arrangements do meet the minimum
requirements for financial management under OP/BP 10.02. These arrangements have been
reviewed by World Bank staff during the course of appraisal of the CAB APL1B project and the
assessment of the overall performance of the arrangements is that it has been Moderately
Satisfactory for both countries. This provides an adequate foundation for financial management
under CAB APL1B. The use of the same institutions and staff will provide continuity between
the phases and will incorporate the experienced developed under the first phase of the project.
The new phase will thus make use of the existing financial management arrangement in place
and will utilize the existing fiduciary staff, comprising of a Financial Manager, Accountant, and
Internal Auditor. External Auditors under recruitment for CAB APL1A will continue to ensure
that annual audit reports are timely carried out and transmitted.
92      Financial management risk. The financial management risk, a combination of inherent
and control risk, is essentially fiduciary: the risk of misuse of World Bank funds. To mitigate this
risk, which is Medium Impact (MI), a robust financial management arrangement system is
described in Annex 3. To ensure this system continues to operate well during the project’s life,
two on-site supervision missions will be carried out, in addition to on-desk reviews of IFRs,
annual work program and budget, as well as audit reports. Timely advice and hands-on support
will be provided to the project team as needed.


           D. Procurement
93      The major procurement activity under the project is the selection of the Private
Partner. This will be done through international competitive bidding following World Bank
procedures. Once selected, the Private Partner is free to use its own procurement procedures for
building the network (section 3.14a of the World Bank procurement guidelines). However, it will
be required to follow World Bank safeguards and anti-corruption rules. The tender documents
for this ICB process will include: technical specifications for the network, draft license and PPP
Agreement, draft shareholder agreements for the two operating companies and other legal
documents relating to establishing the PPP structure. There will also be other smaller
procurement activities under the project such as safeguards studies and technical assistance.
94      Responsibility for managing the procurement process. Ultimate responsibility for all
project implementation, including procurement, under the project rests with the two
governments. However, as this is a regional project and the major procurement will be
undertaken on a joint basis, close cooperation between the two governments will be needed in
the selection of the Private Partner. The joint procurement process will operate in the following
way. The tender documents will be approved by both governments and will be forwarded to the
World Bank for No Objection. Once bids have been received, evaluation and selection will be
done by the two governments working jointly as a single selection committee. The two
governments will establish a joint technical procurement committee for this purpose. Once the

                                                36
bids have been evaluated by this committee and a bidder has been selected, the selection will be
forwarded to the respective home governments for official confirmation and onward
transmission to the World Bank with a request for No Objection. Once this process is completed,
the PPP Agreement will be signed jointly by the two governments.
95      The CEMAC Commission will ensure that the two governments work closely
together on procurement. The CEMAC Commission, as a regional institution, has the political
status to effectively coordinate the work of the two governments. It has played a key role in
coordinating and convening the two governments during the preparation of the project and this
role will continue during project implementation. It will convene and facilitate the joint
procurement process and the overall project
96      The MOU to be signed between the two governments will include procurement
issues. The MOU to be signed by the two governments covering joint supervisory responsibility
for the project will also include a detailed description of how the joint procurement arrangements
will work. The process will therefore be clearly laid out and officially agreed to before the
procurement process starts.
97     Procurement systems have also been established under CAB APL1A. The PCUs have
been set up under CAB 1A and are fully operational. They have recruited suitably qualified staff
and have been handling project procurement activities during the first phase of the project
according to World Bank procedures. This arrangement will continue during the CAB APL1B
phase of the project.
98      The overall project risk for procurement is high. The procurement risk for the project
is rated high but the mitigation measures and monitoring designated in the action plan (including
tasks, responsible party, and time-frame) is expected to reduce this risk to moderate. The fact that
there are PCUs established and operational in both Chad and CAR is a significant factor in
mitigating the risks associated with procurement in both countries. The World Bank team will
provide ongoing support to ensure that procurement activities are undertaken in a timely and
efficient way in accordance with World Bank guidelines.


           E. Social and Environment
99     Safeguards documents disclosed during the first phase of the CAB program.
Safeguards documents (ESMF and RPF) were prepared and disclosed in both countries during
the CAB APL1A phase of the project. These have been updated for CAB APL1B and have been
cleared by the World Bank. The revised documents were disclosed in-country in CAR on May 9,
2011 and in Chad on May 13, 2011 and disclosed through Infoshop on May 12, 2011. If
additional network construction is financed under the project as a result of a greater than
expected contribution from the private sector, these safeguards documents would be updated,
consulted upon, and re-disclosed.
100     The CAB APL1B is a Category B project. The physical components of the CAB
Program in Chad and CAR will be limited to the establishment of the regional backbone which
consists of terrestrial networks (e.g. fiber-optic cables laid next to main national roads). The
environmental and social risks associated with the kind of infrastructure financed under this
Program are low, and the project is therefore assigned to environmental category B under OP
4.01.

                                                37
101     Four World Bank Safeguard policies triggered under the project. These are:
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01); Natural Habitats (OP 4.04), Physical Cultural Resources
(OP 4.11) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12). Since CAB APL1B in CAR will only finance
fiber-optic cables laid alongside the main national roads (no rural networks and landing stations
will be financed), OP 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples) and OP 4.36 (Forests) have not been triggered,
as specified in the ESMF.
102    Specific costed Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs)
Environmental and Social Management Plans (ESMPs) and Resettlement Action Plans
(RAPs) will be prepared as necessary. Once project implementation is underway and the exact
routes have been identified but before any civil works is undertaken, specific costed
ESIAs/ESMPs and RAPs will be prepared. These will outline the likely safeguards impacts of
the proposed work and the actions required to mitigate them, including compensation where
relevant.
103     Any costs incurred in complying with the World Bank safeguards frameworks will
be borne by the governments and/or the Private Partner. The cost of resettlement and other
types of mitigation measure required by the safeguards regulatory controls are expected to be
minimal. In the event that any such costs are incurred, resettlement and compensation costs will
be financed by the governments and/or the Private Partner(s) responsible for the project (this
requirement would then be incorporated into the PPP Agreement and compliance will be
monitored by the project team). However, the Governments shall continue to be responsible for
the full compliance of the Project with the Association’s Safeguard Policies (including, without
limitation, the full payment to Affected Persons of compensation and of other assistance required
for relocation, in the case of Involuntary Resettlement), in particular if the necessary financing of
such safeguard obligations by the Private Partner were not to materialize or were found to be
insufficient.

             F. Credit conditions and covenants

104    Effectiveness conditions:
       (a)      CAR and Chad (the Recipients) have established the legal structure for the
                installation and management of the International CAB Network in accordance
                with PPP principles by (i) establishing the International CAB Company, and (ii)
                signing a satisfactory PPP Agreement with the International CAB Company and
                the Private Partner, all in form and substance and pursuant to terms and conditions
                satisfactory to the Association.
       (b)      The Chad Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
                conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Government of Chad
                to make withdrawals under it have been fulfilled.
       (c)      The CAR Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all
                conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Government of CAR
                to make withdrawals under it have been fulfilled.
       (d)      The Recipients have recruited a safeguards specialist within the Project
                Coordination Unit.


                                                 38
      (e)   The Recipients have adopted an updated Project Implementation Manual, in form
            and substance satisfactory to the Association.
      (f)   Chad and CAR have signed a memorandum of understanding describing the roles
            and responsibilities of Chad and CAR in implementing the Project, including but
            not limited to detailed arrangements for the procurement procedures applicable to
            the selection of the Private Partner and arrangement for the common regulatory
            oversight of the International CAB Company and the International CAB Network.
      (g)   Chad has made the initial contribution of counterpart funds into the Project
            Account required at the signing of the PPP Agreement pursuant to the terms of the
            PPP Agreement, if applicable.

105   Legal covenants:
      (a)   By no later than five (5) months after the Effective Date, the National Operating
            Companies have been properly incorporated in the territory of the Recipients and
            the International CAB Company and the National Operating Companies have
            obtained for the duration of the Project’s implementation all Legal Authorizations
            (inter alia, licenses) necessary to install, manage and operate the International
            CAB Network within the Recipients’ territories.

      (b)   The Recipients shall recruit, no later than four (4) months after the Effective Date,
            the external auditors for the Project.

      (c)   Chad shall deposit into the Project Account in accordance with the schedule set
            forth in the PPP Agreement Chad’s counterpart funds contribution for the
            financing of the Project in an amount equal to the portion of the total public
            contribution payments to be made by Chad and CAR under the PPP Agreement in
            excess of US$45.425 million.




                                             39
                                                               Annex 1: Results Framework and Monitoring
                                                              AFRICA: Central African Backbone - APL1B
                                                               Republic of Chad – Central African Republic


Project Development Objective (PDO): To contribute to increase geographical reach and usage of regional broadband network services and reduce their prices in Chad and in
Central African Republic
                                                                                Cumulative Target Values**                                                     Responsibility
                                    Core

                                      Unit of     Baseline                                                                                   Data Source/
PDO Level Results Indicators*                                                                                                  Frequency                          for Data
                                      Measure      (2010)        YR 1          YR 2         YR3          YR 4        YR5                     Methodology
                                                                                                                                                                 Collection
Volume of international traffic
- International internet                                                  MBits per second
bandwidth
                                                      156
                                  Republic of Chad                160           160           350        370          400          Yearly       Operators          OTRT
                                                     (2009)

                       Central African Republic       34           85           100           100        110          130          Yearly       Operators          ART

Volume of national traffic
using 2 proxies (proxy 1):
                                                                                 %
 Internet subs per 100
   inhabitants
                              Republic of Chad       <1%           1%           2%            3%         4%            5%          Yearly         OTRT             PCU


                    Central African Republic         <1%           1%           2%            3%         4%            5%          Yearly         ART              PCU

Volume of national traffic
using 2 proxies (proxy 2):
 Total teledensity (active
                                                                                 %
   fixed and mobile
   subscribers per 100
   inhabitants)
                              Republic of Chad       32%          35%           38%          41%         44%          57%          Yearly         OTRT             PCU


                                                                                                                                                                   PCU
                    Central African Republic         32%          35%           38%          41%         44%          47%          Yearly         ART




                                                                                             40
                                                                                                                                                  Responsibility




                                  Core
                                         Unit of   Baseline                                                                        Data Source/
PDO Level Results Indicators*                                                 Cumulative Target Values**               Frequency                    for Data
                                         Measure    (2010)                                                                         Methodology
                                                                                                                                                   Collection


Average price of international
communications using the
proxy: average monthly price
                                                                        US$/ month/2Mbps
of wholesale international E1
capacity link from capital city
to Europe
                              Republic of Chad      9,000      8,000         7,500         5,000    2,000    <2,000     Yearly      Operators        OTRT

                     Central African Republic       9,000      8,000         7,500         5,000    2,000    <2,000     Yearly      Operators         ART
Number of direct project
                                                                            Number
beneficiaries (of which female                                               (%)
%)
                                                     Less
                                                     than     100,000       150,000     200,000    400,000   600,000
                              Republic of Chad                                                                          Yearly       Survey           PCU
                                                   100,000     (50%)         (50%)       (50%)      (50%)     (50%)
                                                    (50%)
                                                    20,000    30,000         50,000     100,000    200,000   400,000
                     Central African Republic                                                                           Yearly       Survey           PCU
                                                    (50%)     (50%)          (50%)       (50%)      (50%)     (50%)
Geographic reach of mobile
services: Coverage of mobile
                                                                               %
network (percentage of
population covered)
                              Republic of Chad       29         35             40           45        50       55       Yearly        PCU             PCU

                     Central African Republic        21         26             31           36        41       46       Yearly        PCU             PCU




                                                                                           41
Intermediate Result (Component One): Connectivity - Increased access to ICT services

                                                                              Cumulative Target Values**                                    Responsibility




                                 Core
                                        Unit of   Baseline                                                                   Data Source/
                                                                                                                 Frequency                    for Data
                                        Measure    (2010)       YR 1          YR 2       YR3        YR 4   YR5               Methodology
                                                                                                                                             Collection
Unfettered access for all
operators to regional
infrastructure: Number of
operators and service
                                                                            Number
providers buying capacity
from the Regional
infrastructure deployed
(number)

                             Republic of Chad         0           0             0            0        >4   >6     Yearly        PCU             PCU

                    Central African Republic          0           0             0            0        >4   >6     Yearly        PCU             PCU
Increased access to ICT
services: Number of localities
                                                                            Number
with broadband Internet
access (128Kbps)
                             Republic of Chad         2           2             3            4        6     8     Yearly        OTRT            PCU

                    Central African Republic          2           2             3            4        6     8     Yearly        ART             PCU

                                                                                         .




                                                                                        42
                             Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                        AFRICA: Central African Backbone - APL1B
                         Republic of Chad – Central African Republic


Overview of the CAB APL1B Project
1        Overall project description. The aim of the project is to develop a fiber-optic network
that connects CAR to Chad and Chad to the border with Sudan. This will provide both countries
with intra-regional connectivity and with a second route to connect to the international
submarine cable network. It will complement the one that is soon to be commissioned via
Cameroon to the SAT-3 submarine fiber-optic cable. Once completed, the CAB network will
have a major positive impact on the sector. Satellites, on which both countries are currently
dependent for international connectivity, provide a technically lower quality international
bandwidth than submarine cables because the signals travel further and therefore take longer to
complete the journey (a characteristic known as ‘latency’). Carrying international traffic via
terrestrial fiber-optic networks avoids this problem. By providing a second route out to connect
to the submarine fiber-optic networks, the project will also create technical redundancy which
allows traffic to be carried on either route. This route redundancy is essential to ensure the
quality of supply on terrestrial routes. Equally important to the technical aspects, the project will
create competition in the supply of international bandwidth since the network will connect to
both the West coast and the east coast of Africa. This competition will drive down prices,
thereby making international bandwidth more affordable for all users.
2       Project route. The project will involve installing fiber-optic cables and the associated
transmission equipment along the specified routes. In CAR, the cable will run between Bangui
and the Chad border (Bemal) via Bossembele and Boassangoa. In Chad, the network will run
from the CAR border (from Doba to Goré) to the border with Sudan via the capital, N’Djamena.
The section of the route in Chad that runs between N’Djamena and Doba, already has a fiber-
optic cable installed which was built by the regulator in Chad. This section of fiber-optic cable
will be made available to be incorporated into the regional network.
3       The project will be implemented as a Public Private Partnership (PPP). The Private
Partner (through the two-tier structure described below) will be ultimately responsible for
financing, building and operating the regional network under the terms laid out in a PPP
Agreement that will be signed between the partner, the holding company set up by the Private
Partner and the two governments. The agreement will specify the partner’s obligations
concerning the construction and operation of the network, including the technical specifications
of the network, operating parameters and price controls.
4      A two-tier corporate structure will be set up. The Private Partner will be required to
set up a holding company (the International CAB Company) to run the project and two
subsidiary local operating companies (the National Operating Companies), one in each country.
The holding company can be registered anywhere but with a preference for a jurisdiction which
is business friendly and with a sound corporate regulatory framework. The local operating
companies will be required to be incorporated in CAR and Chad and they will own and operate
the network assets in each country under telecommunications licenses awarded by the two
countries. The PPP Agreement and the licenses will be consistent with each other. The PPP

                                                 43
Agreement will define the rights and obligations of the governments and the Private Partner
under the project while the licenses will ensure that the networks built under the project are
regulated in the normal way by national authorities. This two layer structure (regional holding
company with national subsidiaries, each with minority local shareholders and holding national
telecommunications licenses) is one of the main emerging models for regional network
development by the private sector. For example, Altech Stream East Africa, LAP Green, Etisalat,
and MTN have all set up similar corporate structures to implement their regional infrastructure
development strategies. The governments may participate as stakeholders in the lower level of
this PPP structure (i.e. the national operating companies) through minority shareholders or some
other form of participation.
5       Costs and financing. The cost of constructing the network is estimated at US$53 million
This estimate was made by the technical experts in the advisory team working on the project. It
is a conservative estimate by regional standards, reflecting the potentially difficult terrain
through which the network will pass and the relatively high cost of doing business in the two
countries. Project funds will be used to subsidize the regional network business to make sure it is
commercially viable. It is however expected that the selection of the Private Partner will result in
private sector investment contributing to the cost of the network.
6       The selection of the Private Partner will be done through an International
Competitive Bidding process. The bidder that requires the least amount of public contribution
to finance, build, maintain and operate the network or alternatively offers to provide international
bandwidth at the lowest price, subject to a minimum quality threshold, will be selected. This
quality threshold will include factors such as bidders’ capacity and experience of building and
operating long-distance fiber optic networks in Africa and their capacity to raise their own funds
to invest in the project as well as meeting the service level agreement included in the bidding
documents for the provision of broadband capacity under the CAB network. All bidders that pass
this quality threshold will be required to submit a financial offer which includes the required
amount of public contribution. The bidder that has the best financial offer will be selected as the
Private Partner for the project.
7       Project risk will be borne by the Private Partner. Once a Private Partner is selected
and a level of public contribution is defined and included in the PPP Agreement, the Private
Partner will be committed to building the network and delivering the services, as defined in the
PPP Agreement. In submitting a tender, bidders will be provided with technical specifications of
the network and estimated costs. However, they will be required to carry out their own due-
diligence during the tender process and make their own estimate of the costs and the future value
of the business. It is on the basis of this estimate that they will submit their bids for the project.
Once the level of public contribution has been finalized and the PPP Agreement has been signed,
the Private Partner will be responsible for project and commercial risks. The PPP Agreement will
include provisions for Force Majeure in which the Private Partner which will cover events that
cannot be foreseen but which have a major negative impact on the project.
8      Rationale for providing a public contribution to the project. Although the project will
have a positive net economic return, it is likely that it is not commercially viable, particularly in
the short-term. This provides the rationale for using IDA funds to support the project. These
funds will be channeled via the governments to the PPP structure set up with the Private Partner
to subsidize the cost of building and operating the network under the PPP Agreement. The


                                                 44
Private Partner will be responsible for securing any additional financing that is required, building
the network and then operating it according to the terms of the PPP Agreement.
9        Payment of the public contribution. The public contribution will be paid to the
structure set up by the Private Partner in installments. These installments will be linked to
milestones in the implementation of the project and will be defined in the PPP Agreement. The
milestones that trigger the public contribution payments will be linked to key stages in the
development of the project such as award of the PPP contract, mobilizing a supplier to build the
network, construction stages and operation of the network. The public contribution payments
will be in the form of a direct payment to the PPP structure set up by the Private Partner. IDA
funds will not be financing any government equity investment. The assets developed by the
company will provide security for the public contribution and could be forfeit in the event of a
breach of the contractual obligations of the Private Partner. The Private Partner would also be
required to provide security for the initial payment(s) to guarantee that the funds are used
appropriately. The terms of this security structure and the conditions for breach of contract will
all be included in the PPP Agreement.
10      Regulation of the network. The Private Partner, with the regional network built under
the project, will be in a strong market position and will therefore need to be regulated,
particularly in the areas of price, service definition and service quality. This regulation will be
done in two ways. The PPP Agreement will contain all of these operating specifications
(including price ceilings) and will be a binding contract between the governments and the Private
Partner. In addition, the Private Partner will be operating, via its local subsidiaries, as licensed
telecommunications operators and will be subject to the normal regulatory rules of each of the
countries.
11       Project implementation will be done jointly by the two governments. This is a
regional project and the network built will operate as a single commercial entity. However, it is
being implemented in two countries. Some actions, such as the procurement of the Private
Partner, will be undertaken jointly by the governments. Other actions, such as submission of
requests to the World Bank to pay an installment of the public contribution to the PPP structure
pursuant to the terms of the Financing Agreement, will be undertaken separately by the two
governments but in consultation with each other. The two governments will therefore be working
closely together throughout project implementation. The CEMAC Commission will act as a
facilitator between the two governments for this project and will convene meetings with
representatives of the two countries in order to take key decisions such as procurement
selections. CEMAC will also work with the two governments to monitor and troubleshoot the
project as it progresses. The two governments will sign a Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) which will describe how the joint project implementation arrangements will work. This
will include the various roles and responsibilities of the two governments and CEMAC, the role
of the various committees and bodies set up to monitor the implementation of the project and a
detailed description of how joint decisions such as procurement will function.
12     Services will be specified in the PPP Agreement. The PPP Agreement will include the
following detailed requirements that the Private Partner and the holding company will be
required to meet: technical specifications of the network, including routing, cable types, installed
capacity, drop-off points along the route; service definitions, including international capacity,
domestic transit and dark-fiber; service quality standards, including network up-time, mean time
between failures, round-trip delays and network maintenance standards; and price controls which

                                                45
will be based on a formula that will specify the price ceilings for each of the services that the
operator is able to charge customers. The network operator will be able to provide services at a
price below this ceiling if it wishes to but will not be able to exceed it. The price control
framework will specify a downward trend in prices over time to reflect international trends. It
will also provide a strong commercial incentive to the operator to sell as much capacity as
possible and operate as efficiently as possible. Some flexibility will be incorporated into the
formula to take account of unanticipated events such as sudden increases in operating costs or
the price of onward connectivity. The operator will be required to provide the network services
on non-discriminatory terms so that all users are able to obtain the services on terms that are at
least as good as the best terms offered. The draft PPP Agreement will be included in the tender
documents along with drafts of the other key legal documents such as licenses and shareholder
agreements.
13      Onward connectivity to submarine cable landing points. Key to the success of the
project is the onward connections to the submarine fiber-optic cables that land in Sudan and
Cameroon. This will be achieved by the CAB network connecting through Chad to its borders of
Cameroon and Sudan. In Cameroon, long-haul capacity remains a monopoly under CAMTEL
but this may possibly change in the future, in line with regional trends, when the government’s
plans for restructuring of CAMTEL and the new sector legislation in Cameroon are developed.
The long-haul market in Sudan is already competitive. There are currently two long-haul fiber-
optic cable operators operating there – Sudatel and Etisalat (which trades under the name Canar)
- both of which have national backbone networks and connections to submarine cables. Zain, the
biggest mobile operator in Sudan, is also developing its own fiber-optic backbone network.
Currently, Sudatel’s network reaches close to the border with Chad. Etisalat’s fiber-optic
network extends to the west of the capital Khartoum but does not currently extend as far as the
Chad border. However, the gap is not large and Etisalat has indicated that it already has budget
approved to extend its network to the border. The market and network situation in Sudan is
therefore favorable for providing domestic transit through the country to connect to the
submarine cables that land in Port Sudan on the east coast of the country. Taken together,
Cameroon and Sudan provide multiple routes by which traffic can transit from CAR and Chad to
the landing points of the submarine cables. This is expected to create the technical redundancy
on transit routes which will ensure quality of supply (i.e. international traffic can be routed via
Cameroon or on either route within Sudan which means that if there is a technical problem on
any of them, there will be no break in service). As the three transit routes are owned by different
operators, it also creates competition between them which will ensure downward pressure on
prices.
14      Onward connectivity to global communications networks. There are four submarine
cables that land at Port Sudan. Each provides onward connectivity to the global communications
networks and their diverse ownership means that there is competition for this onward
connectivity guaranteeing low prices for the offshore component of the service. In Cameroon,
there is only one cable (SAT-3) and CAMTEL has exclusive access to it. If this were the only
mechanism for accessing the submarine fiber-optic cable infrastructure, this would be a source of
concern but, with the additional routes via Sudan to be provided by the CAB APL1B project, it is
expected that there will be competitive pressures resulting in lower prices than would otherwise
be the case.



                                                46
15      Investor interest in the project. The proposed route of the network bridges the
broadband infrastructure gap between the east and west coasts of Africa. This will be the only
such coast-to-coast bridge anywhere in Africa apart from South Africa. This has developmental
significance in itself but, from a commercial point of view, it is also attractive. The markets in
East Africa are growing rapidly, as are the markets in some of the West and Central African
countries such as Nigeria, Cameroon and Ghana. Linking them by fiber-optic cable therefore
provides opportunities for transiting traffic directly across the region, rather than the alternative
much longer routes. It provides direct access to the markets of Chad and CAR which are
expected to be significant in themselves but the trans-continental bridge provides opportunities
for arbitrage between east and west coast prices. The project is therefore potentially of great
interest to the private sector, particularly the operators with a pan-Africa network footprint. Set
against this, are the difficulties of large-scale infrastructure projects in Central Africa and the
commercial and political risks that any investor would be taking. This provides further rationale
for implementing the project as a PPP.
16       Potential for additional links financed by other development partners. The project
provides a platform for extending the network to other international routes such as to Nigeria,
South Sudan or the Republic of Congo. There is significant interest from the African
Development Bank and Islamic Development Bank to support these extensions and the
development partners have indicated that they hope to finalize their own approval during 2011-
12. However, at this stage, detailed investment plans have yet to be finalized. The proposed
project financed by IDA is however not dependent on these links and, should they not
materialize, this project’s PDO outcomes would still be achieved. However, if they were to be
built, the impact of the project would be increased.
17     Involvement of the governments in project implementation. This project is being
implemented as a PPP. There is therefore an important role for the governments as partners in
the project. This role is primarily achieved through the PPP Agreement. In addition, the
government of Chad will provide the Private Partner with access to the fiber-optic cable that it
owns along the N’Djamena-Doba route. Finally, the governments may also have a stake in local
operating companies through, for example, a minority shareholding. It is common for
governments in Africa to have minority stakes in telecoms operators and this is unlikely to have
a major negative impact on the sector.
18      The project is technically and economically viable on a standalone basis and is not
dependent on national backbone projects. The CAB network will provide international
capacity to customers in the major cities, particularly the capitals, to the international network
infrastructure. These customers include mobile operators, ISPs and large end-users (e.g. banks).
It will also provide transit capacity to customers in Cameroon and Sudan wishing to get trans-
Africa connectivity. From these main points of interconnection with the CAB network, operators
and ISPs can transport the capacity around the country on their own domestic networks. In
addition both governments are considering developing national backbone projects (as has been
done in other countries in Africa). Such a network would add to the existing domestic transit
capacity and would further strengthen the demand for services provided by the CAB project
either directly as wholesale customers or indirectly through providing domestic transit for
customers wishing to access the CAB International network. As is standard industry practice, the
CAB network will include multiple fiber-pairs. Some of these will be used for the international
capacity but spare fiber pairs may also be leased to other parties. These parties could include the

                                                 47
national companies that governments are thinking of setting up to develop domestic backbone
networks (i.e. some of the fiber on the CAB network could be leased and then incorporated into
these domestic networks) but the success of the CAB project is not dependent on these national
backbone projects happening.
19      Protection will be provided through the PPP Agreement. All parties to the PPP
Agreement will be expected to contribute to the financing of the project. The terms on which this
financing is provided will be specified in the PPP Agreement, including performance guarantees,
conditions under which the contract would be breached, provisions for remedies, procedures for
arbitration and the procedures for cancelation in the event of a breach of contract. This means
that the governments will be protected against the failure of the Private Partner to meet the
requirements of the project, as specified in the PPP Agreement.


CAB APL1B Project in CAR
20     Description of the project in CAR. In CAR, the project will develop a fiber optic
network that connects Bangui, to the border with Chad. The implementation will be done
through the two-tier PPP structure described above. A local operating company will be set up in
CAR to hold the telecommunications license and operate the network within the territory of the
country.
21      Project cost structure. The project costs are divided into 2 components. Component 1
covers all of the activities relating to the construction of the network, including safeguards
compliance and technical regulatory support for related areas (e.g. cyber security). Component 2
will be project management.
22       Component 1 - Connectivity (Total cost US$18.9 million). This component will
include the following activities: (i) CAB-related environmental and resettlements consultancies,
(ii) finance links to Chad including fiber-optic cables, terminal equipments, switches, and (iii)
technical assistance.
      Subcomponent 1.1 – Address environment, social and resettlement aspects. The
       activities to be undertaken in this project are unlikely to have significant environmental,
       social or resettlement impact. However, as outlined in the ESMF and RPF prepared by
       the GoCAR for the CAB program, the project will finance an Environmental and Social
       Impact Assessment (ESIA)/Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) and/or
       a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for the deployment of the regional backhaul. This
       subcomponent will include TA to conduct environmental and resettlements studies.
      Subcomponent 1.2 – Deployment of a broadband network connecting to
       neighboring country. This component will finance the development and operation of a
       fiber-optic network connecting the capital Bangui to the border with Chad via
       Bossembele and Boassangoa. The infrastructure to be built consists of fiber-optic cables
       and associated civil works together with any microwave equipment, terminal equipment,
       routers and other technical equipment needed for the network.




                                               48
      Subcomponent 1.3 - Technical Assistance. Provision of technical assistance, including
       for the review, improvement and development of information laws, “cyber” legal and
       institutional framework, including with respect to cybersecurity, cybercrimes, privacy,
       promotion of the ICT sector and support to the national entities in charge of ICT.




Component               Activity                                                       Amount
                                                                                   (US$million)
Component 1:            CAB-related environmental and resettlement activities               0.3
Connectivity            Financing the fiber-optic infrastructure including cables,         18.4
                        terminal equipment, switching and all other network
                        equipment. The route will be from Bangui to the border
                        with Chad.
                        Provision of technical assistance, including for the                0.2
                        review, improvement and development of information
                        laws, “cyber” legal and institutional framework,
                        including with respect to cybersecurity, cybercrimes,
                        privacy, promotion of the ICT sector and support to the
                        national entities in charge of ICT.
Component 1 Total                                                                          18.9


23      Component 2 – Project Management (Total cost US$1.1 million). This component
will consist of support to finance project management-related issues, such as human resources
support with management, procurement, financial management, M&E, internal and external
audit, and communications expertise, operating expenses, equipment and technical assistance.
Component               Activity                                                       Amount
                                                                                   (US$million)
Component 2: Project Support to PCU                                                     1.1
management


CAB APL1B Project in Chad

24      Description of the project. In Chad, the project will develop a fiber optic network that
connects N’Djaména to the border with CAR and to the border with Sudan. The implementation
will be done through the two-tier PPP structure described above. A local operating company will
be set up in Chad to hold the telecommunications license and operate the network within the
territory of the country.
25       Component 1 - Connectivity (Total cost US$35.5 million) - This component will
include the following activities: (i) CAB-related environmental and resettlements consultancies,
(ii) finance links to Chad including fiber-optic cables, terminal equipments, switches, and (iii)
technical assistance


                                               49
      Subcomponent 1.1 – Address environment, social and resettlement aspects of the
       project. The activities to be undertaken in this project are unlikely to have significant
       environmental, social or resettlement impact. However, as outlined in the ESMF and
       RPF prepared by the GoCD for the CAB program, the project will finance an
       ESIA/ESMP and a RAP for the deployment of the regional backhaul. This subcomponent
       will include TA to conduct environmental and resettlement studies.
      Subcomponent 1.2 – Deployment of a broadband network connecting to
       neighboring countries. This component will finance the development and operation of a
       fiber-optic network connecting the capital N’Djamena to the border with Sudan (via
       Adré) and connecting Doba to the border with CAR. The infrastructure to be built
       consists of fiber-optic cables and associated civil works together with any microwave
       equipment, terminal equipment, routers and other technical equipment needed for the
       network.
      Subcomponent 1.3 - Technical Assistance. Provision of technical assistance, including
       for the review, improvement and development of information laws, “cyber” legal and
       institutional framework, including with respect to cybersecurity, cybercrimes, privacy,
       promotion of the ICT sector and support to the national entities in charge of ICT.


Component              Activity                                                  Amount
                                                                               (US$ million)
Component 1:           CAB-related environmental and resettlement                  0.3
Connectivity           studies
                       Financing the fiber-optic infrastructure including           31.1
                       cables, terminal equipment, switching and all other
                       equipment. The route will be to the border with
                       Sudan (N’Djamena –to Sudan border via Adré)
                       Financing the fiber-optic infrastructure including            3.9
                       cables, terminal equipment, switching and all other
                       equipment. The route will be to the border with
                       CAR (Doba – CAR border via Goré).
                       Technical Assistance. Provision of technical                  0.2
                       assistance, including for the review, improvement
                       and development of information laws, “cyber” legal
                       and institutional framework, including with respect
                       to cybersecurity, cybercrimes, privacy, promotion
                       of the ICT sector and support to the national
                       entities in charge of ICT.
Component 1 Total                                                                   35.5




                                              50
26      Component 2 – Project Management (Total cost US$2.5 million). This component
will consist of support to finance project management-related issues, such as human resources
support with management, procurement, financial management, M&E, internal and external
audit, and communications expertise, operating expenses equipment and technical assistance.

Component           Activity                                              Amount
                                                                        (US$ million

Component 2:        Support to PCU                                           2.5
Project
management




                                             51
       Annex 3a: Implementation Arrangements – Central African Republic (CAR)
                       AFRICA: Central African Backbone - APL1B


1.     Project institutional and implementation arrangements will rely on those arrangements set
up under CAB APL1A in CAR.
                   i. Project administration mechanisms
2.      MPTNT is responsible for the overall coordination, implementation, and supervision of
the project. For each activity concerned, MPTNT, through the PCU, consults with and delegates
to the relevant agencies and ministries.
3.      The implementation arrangements involve three organizational levels: (i) a Project
Steering Committee (Comité de Pilotage) responsible for providing advice regarding cross-
sectoral issues; (ii) the PCU responsible for project implementation, coordination of activities
and fiduciary management; and (iii) a Technical Committee providing technical input for the
development of the regional backbone.
4.      Figure 2 below identifies these agencies and ministries, as well as other entities not
concerned with the carrying out of the project, but whose responsibilities are related to its
objectives and/or implementation.
                        Figure 2: Project Implementation Arrangements




5.      The role of the PCU. Day to day project implementation, coordination of activities and
fiduciary management of the project will be done by the existing PCU anchored in the MPTNT
and financed through the project. The PCU, in close collaboration with the technical team from
MPTNT, is responsible for: (i) oversight of all technical, social, and environmental matters

                                              52
relating to Project implementation; (ii) planning of Project activities and preparation of Project
annual work programs; (iii) monitoring and evaluation of Project activities including quality
insurance; (iv) financial management, procurement, and audits under the Project; and (v)
monitoring of implementation of the National ICT Policy with respect to the project. The PCU
also provides TA support to the Ministry by monitoring progress towards the government
strategy on ICT. The PCU is staffed with (i) a Project Coordinator; (ii) a technical expert on
Backbone issues; (iii) a procurement specialist; and (iv) a financial manager; (v) an accountant;
and (vi) an internal auditor. In addition, specifically for the implementation of CAB APL1B,
the PCU is recruiting a PPP expert to add technical capacity to handle the selection and
supervision of the Private Partner and the PPP structure. An environmental and social specialist
will also be available, depending on the needs identified in detailed environmental assessments.
These experts are financed by the project through performance-based contracts linked to
evaluation results acceptable to IDA. The PCU is housed in MPTNT to facilitate knowledge
transfer and strengthen capacity at Ministry level.
6.      Project Steering Committee. A Project Steering Committee (Comité de Pilotage) has
been established and is in charge of ensuring the consistency and smooth execution of the
project. It is functioning well, meeting at least twice a year. Placed under the MPTNT (or his
representative), it comprises representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of
Economy, Planning and International Cooperation and of the participating agencies and
ministries, as well as the Project Coordinator. The Steering Committee provides advice on
coordination of cross-sectoral interventions and ensures consistency of ICT activities carried out
by different agencies/ institutions.
7.      Technical Committee. The Technical Committee has been established to provide
technical inputs from all key stakeholders from the sector on issues related to the establishment
of the CAB network. All of the technical work being done under the project is benefiting from
their support and it is playing an active role in project development.
8.      Role of the CEMAC Commission. The CEMAC Commission is the regional body that
is responsible for the connectivity program at the regional level. The international fiber-optic
network to be financed by the project is being designed, developed and will be operated as a
single coordinated entity. A single tender will be carried out to select a Private Partner to develop
and operate the international CAB network in both countries. This will be done jointly by the
two governments working closely together. The CEMAC Commission will help convening the
two governments and facilitating analysis and decisions.
9.      Chad & CAR Joint Technical Team. The governments of both Chad and CAR are
responsible for the selection of the Private Partner. In order to achieve this, the design of the
tender documents and the selection of the Private Partner have to be undertaken jointly by both
countries. In addition to agreeing to the facilitation role of the CEMAC Commission, the
governments have also agreed to nominate a joint technical team to carry out the tender design
and procurement. With the support of the transaction advisor, the technical team will make
unified decisions and these decisions will be referred back to their national governments for sign-
off and forwarding to the World Bank for no-objection as necessary. The joint technical team
will be made of experts from both countries, including from the two PCUs (project coordinators,
PPP experts), from the two line ministries and from the two existing national Technical
Committees (described in paragraph 7 above). A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) will be


                                                 53
signed between the two governments covering the detailed implementation arrangements,
particularly in the area of joint decision-making, procurement and disbursement.
10.     Role of the transaction advisor. The transaction advisor (a consortium of investment
bank Compagnie Financière Cadmos, the law firm Eversheds, the audit firm KPMG and the
technical expert agency JIDCOM) was appointed to assist the governments, partners of the CAB
Project and CEMAC. The transaction advisor is a key element of the arrangements for the
successful implementation of CAB APL1B. The transaction advisor has notably defined the
public-private partnership structure and built country consensus on that structure. The
transaction advisor is also organizing the selection of the Private Partner for the development,
operation and maintenance of the CAB International network (drafting the bidding
documentation and supporting the joint technical team during the selection process).
11.    Role of the Private Partner. The Private Partner (through the PPP structure to be set up)
will be ultimately responsible for financing, building, maintaining and operating the regional
network under the terms laid out in a PPP Agreement that will be signed between the partner and
the two governments (see annex 2 for more detailed information on the selection of the Private
Partner).
12.     Project Implementation Manual (PIM). The PIM includes all procedures and areas of
M&E, coordination and implementation and financial management, including financial,
administrative, accounting and procurement, internal controls and audits. The PIM describes the
diverse roles, responsibilities, and individual work programs of each participating agency
(including the timetable that shall be respected to ensure the success of the project). A revised
PIM will be established covering the activities of both CAB APL1A and CAB APL1B. This will
be completed before project effectiveness.
13.     World Bank supervision. The Bank will conduct a minimum of two supervision
missions per year during project implementation, including an annual progress review. A
midterm review will be conducted, which will encompass: (i) a thorough review of the execution
of the project and the achievement of project objectives to date; and (ii) agreement between the
Bank and the Recipient on recommended measures to ensure efficient execution of the project
and successful achievement of project objectives in the period after the review, all in accordance
with agreed performance indicators. The anticipated date for the mid-term review is January
2014. The Recipient will provide the Bank a project completion report within six months of
project closing date and inputs to the Implementation Completion and Result Report to be
prepared by the Bank. The Bank will support public dissemination of project information,
including supervision reports on the project’s performance.


                  ii. Financial Management, Disbursements and Procurement
Country issues
14.     CAR endured a long period of civil unrest characterized by the destruction of
infrastructure and equipment, and the absence of investments. Two Bank studies were
undertaken: a CFAA (2007) and a PEFA (2008). Although the Government of CAR has not yet
endorsed the conclusions of the PEFA, the latter is in line with the CFAA. The two studies
concluded that public financial management was weak and lacked capacity in budgeting,


                                               54
 accounting, reporting, debt management, auditing and internal control systems. As of December
 2010, the country risk is high.
 Overall conclusion of the Financial Management Assessment of the MPTNT
 Risk assessment and mitigation
 15.   The following table summarizes the significant risks with the corresponding mitigating
 measures.

Risk                                Risk     Risk Mitigating Measures Incorporated into              Residual
                                    Rating   Project Design                                          Risk

Inherent risk                       MI                                                               MI

Country level                       H        None. Beyond the control of the project.                H
According to questions 13 and 16
of the CPIA, the country is high
risk on fiduciary management

Entity level                        ML       The PCU was assessed in April 2011 as Moderate          ML
                                             in terms of FM risk. More capacity building through
Risk that the ring-fenced PCU
                                             training should be delivered to the project to reduce
which is set up inside the
                                             this risk further
MPTNT does not manage the
project in accordance with IDA
fiduciary requirements.

Project level:                      MI       Adequate FM arrangements agreed upon will be            MI
                                             implemented as detailed below.
The project involves many
stakeholders, which can be
difficult to coordinate.




Control Risk                        MI                                                               MI

Budgeting:                          MI       Adopt budgeting procedures and annual budgets           MI
                                             derived from the work plans. Budget execution and
Possibility of committing
                                             monitoring to be closely monitored. As per recent
expenditures outside the budget.
                                             assessment the PCU was assed as Substantial with
No variance analysis.
                                             this respect due to delays in Budget preparation

Accounting:                         MI       As per recent assessment we observed deficiencies       MI
                                             in accounting in the CAB project. Some software
There is an accounting system in
                                             assistance contract will be useful
place; delay in keeping reliable
and auditable accounting records.




                                                       55
Risk                                 Risk     Risk Mitigating Measures Incorporated into            Residual
                                     Rating   Project Design                                        Risk

Internal Control:                    ML       Sound financial and administrative procedures are     ML
                                              in place and documented in a manual of procedures.
Insufficient safeguards and
                                              The internal auditor delivers reports on a regular
controls may result in misuse of
                                              basis. An action plan to apply internal auditor
funds and impede the execution
                                              recommendations needs to be monitored.
of the project.

Funds Flow:                          ML       FM/disbursement and implementation additional         ML
                                              support will be provided to PCU in order to
The PCU may have a slow
                                              strengthen capacity. In addition a close monitoring
disbursement rate
                                              of budget execution should accelerate disbursement
                                              rate.

Financial Reporting                  ML       PCU is privy to Bank’s disbursements and reporting    ML
                                              procedures.
Financial reports were not
systematically transmitted within             FM team will continue to provide close support to
delays.                                       ensure timely delivery of reports.

Auditing:                            MI       An independent external audit firm acceptable to      MI
                                              IDA will be recruited shortly with respect to the
No auditing arrangement in
                                              original project. Its terms of reference will be
place; the national audit capacity
                                              extended to cover the second phase.
is weak and not reliable.



Fraud and Corruption                 MI       Anti-corruption provisions will be included in the    MI
                                              Private Public Partnership arrangements for
                                              infrastructure operations. Besides the proposed
                                              fiduciary arrangements are strong anti-corruption
                                              deterrents and will be all closely monitored by the
                                              project team altogether.

OVERALL FM RISK                      MI                                                             ML



 The overall risk rating is deemed Medium Impact. Upon implementation of the mitigation
 measures, the risk rating might be Medium Likelihood.
 16.     Strengths. The financial management system is in place (including customization and
 training). A PIM for CAB APL 1A has been finalized and includes accounting, FM, auditing
 arrangements and procedures. This will be revised to take account of the additional activities
 under CAB APL1B.
 Weaknesses and Action Plan. Some additional capacity building of the Financial Management
 team is deemed necessary especially with respect to the use of the computerized accounting
 system.




                                                        56
Financial Management Action Plan

Issue               Remedial action recommended                Responsible   Completion       FM
                                                               body/person   date             Effectiveness
                                                                                              Conditions
Staffing at the     Appointment of the FM Specialist           PCU           By               No (Done)
PCU                                                                          effectiveness
Information         Additional training on Tom pro, and        PCU           By               No
system              have assistance contract in place.                       effectiveness
accounting
software
Administrative      Extend the use of APL1A manual to          PCU           Prior to         Yes
Accounting, and     APL1B                                                    effectiveness
Financial
Manual
Internal auditing   Ensure that internal audit                 PCU           By               No
                    recommendations on APL1A are applied                     effectiveness
                    and extended to APL1B
External            Finalize recruitment of external auditor   PCU           Within 4 month   No
auditing            under APL1A then update Terms of                         after
                    reference to include APL1B                               effectiveness
17.   Implementing entity. A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) has been set up within
MPTNT to manage the project. The PCU already includes a coordinator, and include financial
manager, a procurement specialist, an internal auditor and, an accountant, all recruited on a
competitive basis.
18.     Budgeting. The activities and the breakdown of cost to be financed under the project
have been identified. Annual work plans to be approved by the Steering Committee will clearly
detail the activities and will be translated into annual budgets. The PCU will monitor its
execution with the integrated financial software, in accordance the budgeting procedures
specified in the manual of procedures, and will report on variances along with the quarterly
Interim Financial Monitoring Reports (IFRs). Basically, the PCU will prepare the overall budgets
on an annual basis. The budgeting system needs to forecast the origin and use of funds under the
project for each fiscal year. Only budgeted expenditures would be committed and incurred so as
to ensure resources are used within the agreed upon allocations and for the intended purposes.
19.     Accounting policies and procedures: CAR is a member of OHADA organization, hence
adheres to OHADA accounting standards, which are in line with the international accounting
standards. Hence OHADA accounting standards will apply to this project. A specific chart of
accounts will be developed and documented in the manual of procedures. A computerized
accounting system has been purchased for CAB APL1A and will also record the APL1B
project’s transactions and generate accurate financial reports in time.
20.    Internal control and auditing. Internal controls are in place, comprising the whole
systems of control, financial or otherwise, established by management in order to (a) carry out
the project activities in an orderly and efficient manner; (b) ensure adherence to policies and
procedures; and (c) safeguard the assets of the project and secure as far as possible the
completeness and accuracy of the financial and other records. A PIM documents the internal

                                                          57
controls with a specific focus on the following: (i) segregation of duties; (ii) physical control of
assets; (iii) authorization and approval; (iv) clear channels of command; (v) arithmetic and
accounting accuracy; (vi) integrity and performance of staff at all levels; and (vii) supervision.
An internal auditor has been competitively selected and appointed to ensure full adherence to the
procedures, pre-screen and clear all payments to ensure they are supported by the following
reliable evidences: (i) expenditures are budgeted; (ii) the service is rendered according to the
contract and (iii) the payment is within the available budget allocation. Besides, the PCU will
coordinate with the “Inspection Générale des Finances” -IGF- (General Inspection of Finances)
to include this project in their annual audit program and review it at least once a year. IGF audit
report shall be communicated to the PCU and the World Bank supervision missions.
21.     Financial Reporting. The PCU is responsible for recording and reporting on all project
transactions. The financial manager located at the PCU will consolidate information and submit
to the World Bank an IFR on a quarterly basis and not later than 45 days after the end of each
calendar quarter. The IFR must include the following tables, with appropriate comments; (i)
Sources and Uses of Funds; (ii) Uses of Funds by Project Activity/Component; and (iii) Special
account activity statement. At the end of each fiscal year, the project will issue the Project’s
Financial Statements (PFS) comprising: (i) a balance sheet; (ii) a statement of sources and uses
of funds; (iii) accounting policies and procedures; and (iv) an explanatory notes. These PFS will
be subject to annual external audits as described below.
22.     External audit. The project annual financial statements will be audited by qualified
external auditors which appointment is at its final stage under APL1A. The terms of reference
will then be updated to encompass APL1B. The audit reports comprising the audited financial
statements, a single audit opinion and a management letter will be submitted to IDA not later
than 6 months within the end of each fiscal year. These audits will be carried out in accordance
with the International Standards on Auditing (ISA). The external auditor will be recruited no
later than four (4) months after effectiveness date. The tentative due dates of the audit report will
be as follow:
    Fiscal Year         Scope and Period covered                   Due date
    2011                January – December 2011                    June 30 2012
    2012                January-December 2012                      June 30 2013
    2013                January-December 2013                      June 30 2014


Disbursement arrangements and flow of funds
23.     Flow of funds- designated account. One Designated Account (DA) in CFAF will be
opened in a commercial bank and managed by the PCU under the responsibility of the Project
coordinator and the financial specialist. This DA will be managed by the PCU in terms of
ensuring fiduciary standards and accordance with Bank FM and Disbursement guidelines. Upon
effectiveness, the DA will receive an initial advance up to a ceiling amount of CFAF 186 million
equivalent to four month expenditures forecast. Subsequent advances will be made on a monthly
basis supported with Withdrawal Applications cleared by the Internal Auditor and provided the
previous advance has been properly documented with eligible project expenditures.
24.    For subcomponent 1.2 (Connectivity), disbursements will be made in installments
linked to milestones reached at key stages of the development of the network. Public

                                                 58
contribution payments will be made on the basis of a customized Statement of Expenditures
upon certification of an Independent Engineer as to the achievement of the milestones (e.g.
constructed network segment) during the construction phase of the network. The milestones that
will trigger the installments will be specified in the PPP agreement. The actual disbursements
will be based on pre-determined construction costs and verification of the completed milestones.
The supporting documents for the payments would include the PPP Agreement, a physical
progress and financial report and verification report signed by an independent engineer. These
documents will be maintained by the respective PCUs for Bank supervision and external audit.
An independent verification of the satisfaction of milestones under the PPP Agreement by the
International CAB Company will be carried out by an independent third-party (e.g. technical
audits).
Allocation of Grant and Credit Proceeds:
25.     The World Bank will issue a “Disbursement Letter” which will specify the additional
instructions for withdrawal of the proceeds of the Grant and Credit. Table 5 below shows the
allocation of the proceeds of the Grant and Credit by disbursement category.


                      Table 5: Allocation of proceeds of Grant and Credit
                                   by disbursement category
           Category         Amount of the     Amount of the          Percentage of
                           Credit Allocated   Grant Allocated     Expenditures to be
                            (expressed in      (expressed in           Financed
                                SDR)               SDR)           (inclusive of Taxes
                                                                   other than VAT)
        (1) Goods,             500 000             400 000      100%
        Operating Costs,
        non-consulting
        services and
        consultants’
        services for
        Parts A.1, A.3
        and B of the
        Project

        (2) Public            6 300 000            5 200 000    Percentage of operating
        Contribution                                            costs, goods, works,
        Payments for                                            non-consulting services,
        Part A.2 of the                                         and consultants’ services
        Project                                                 as defined for the
                                                                Recipient in the PPP
                                                                Agreement

        TOTAL                 6 800 000            5 600 000
        AMOUNT




                                              59
26.     Disbursement Methods. The transaction-based disbursements will still apply whereby
withdrawal applications will be supported with Statements of Expenditures or full
documentation. Once the PCU demonstrates its ability to submit reliable quarterly unaudited
IFRs, the project may shift to the report-based method in the second year if it sustains a
satisfactory FM rating. In addition to disbursing to the Designated Account (“Advance method”),
other disbursement methods such as reimbursement, direct payment and special commitment will
be available to the Project. The minimum value for Reimbursement, Direct Payment and Special
Commitment will be 20 percent of the DA ceiling.
27.     Types of Supporting Documentation. The Bank requires either copies of the original
documents evidencing eligible expenditures (“Records”) or summary reports of expenditure
(“Summary Reports”). Disbursements will be supported by (i) Statement of Expenditures (SOE)
summarizing eligible expenditures paid during a stated period for amounts below the SOE
documentation threshold specified in the Disbursement Letter and (ii) records evidencing eligible
expenditures (e.g. copies of receipts, supplier invoices). In all cases, the PCU will be responsible
for retaining the original documents evidencing eligible expenditures and making them available
for audit or inspection.
28.     Taxes. In line with Country Financing Parameters, the Grant/Credit will finance 100% of
eligible expenditures including taxes with the exception of the Value Added Tax (VAT). VAT
was excluded at the request of the Recipient as the financing of VAT would consume a
significant share of project funds. The PCU will submit Withdrawal Applications (WA) net of
VAT and will ensure the VAT exemption mechanism in effect in CAR is adhered to by suppliers
and contractors.
29.    Financial covenants. Financial covenants are the standard ones, as described in the legal
documents, and are comprised of maintaining project accounts in accordance with sound
accounting practices, audit requirements and records well kept and secured.
30.     Fraud and corruption: Anti-corruption provisions will be included in the Private Public
Partnership arrangements for infrastructure operations. Besides the proposed fiduciary
arrangements are strong anti-corruption deterrents and will be all closely monitored by the
project team altogether.
31.    List of Conditions.
Following are the FM effectiveness conditions:
     Preparation and adoption of the FM Procedures Manual (Will build on existing manual)

                  iii. Procurement
General
32.    Applicable guidelines. Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in
accordance with the World Bank’s “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-
consulting services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits & Grants by World Bank Borrowers”
dated January 2011; and “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants under IBRD
Loans & IDA Credits & Grants by World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011, and the
provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. For each contract to be financed by the
Grant/Credit, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for

                                                 60
pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between
the Recipient and the Bank in the Procurement Plan. The prior review and procurement method
thresholds indicated below are intended for the initial procurement plan. The procurement plan
would be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation
needs and improvement in institutional capacity.
33.     Procurement documents. All works, goods, non consultancy services and consultancy
services to be procured under this project would be carried out using the Bank’s Standard
Bidding Documents (SBDs) or Standard Request for Proposals, respectively for all ICB for
goods, non consultancy services and works, and Quality–and–Cost Based Selection for
recruitment of consultants. As the Government has already revised its national procurement
system and the new public procurement code has been implemented since June, for National
Competition Bidding (NCB), the Recipient would use the World Bank’s SBD for ICB for goods,
non consultancy services and works, and the World Bank’s Standard Request for Proposals for
recruitment of consultants.
National procurement system and ongoing reforms
34.     The main recommendations of the 2006 Country Procurement Issue Paper (CPIP) were to
(i) prepare and approve a public procurement code, (ii) carry out a survey of the existing capacity
on procurement, (iii) make a needed assessment of the institutional and human capacity
requirements for public procurement in the country, (iv) prepare an action plan for the
procurement reform and (v) implement the new procurement code. All these recommendations
have been implemented.
35.   The Government has adopted a new Procurement Code signed by the President of the
Republic on June 6, 2008.
36.     Advertising procedure. General Procurement Notice (GPN), Specific Procurement
Notices (SPN), Request for Expression of Interest, and results of the evaluation and contracts
award should be published in accordance with advertising provisions in the following guidelines:
“Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-consulting services under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits & Grants by World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011; and “Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants under IBRD Loans & IDA Credits & Grants by World
Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.
Procurement methods
37.     Procurement of works. The amount of Works to be procured under the project is
expected to be small as the investment in the network infrastructure will be undertaken primarily
by the Private Partner. However, any procurement of Works will be done under ICB or NCB
using the Bank’s Standard Bidding Documents for all ICB and National SBD agreed with or
satisfactory to the Bank. Small simple works may be procured by requesting at least three written
quotations from qualified contractors.
38.    Procurement of Goods and Non consultancy services. Goods procured under this
project will include: Computer equipment; office furniture; and accounting software. Non
consultancy services procured under this project will include workshops and training in the
region and abroad. Procurement will be done under ICB or NCB using the Bank’s Standard
Bidding Documents for all ICB and National SBD agreed with or satisfactory to the Bank. Small
value goods may be procured under shopping procedures.

                                                61
39.    Direct contracting may be used where necessary if agreed in the procurement plan in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 to 3.8 of the Procurement Guidelines.
40.     Selection of Consultants. Consultancy services would include various advisory services,
feasibility studies, and environmental and social impact study. The selection method will be
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method whenever possible. Contracts for specialized
assignments estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent may be contracted through
Consultant Qualification (CQ). The following additional methods may be used where
appropriate: Quality Based Selection (QBS); Selection under a Fixed Budget (FB); and Least-
Cost Selection (LCS).
41.     Single Source Selection (SSS) may be employed with prior approval of the Bank and will
be in accordance with paragraphs 3.8 to 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
42.    All services of individual consultants (IC) will be procured under contracts in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
43.     Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$
100,000 per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. However, if foreign firms express
interest, they will not be excluded from consideration.
44.     Training, workshops, seminars, and conferences. Training activities will comprise
workshops and training in the region and abroad, based on individual needs as well as group
requirements; on-the-job training, and hiring consultants for developing training materials and
conducting training. All training and workshop activities will be carried out on the basis of
approved annual programs that will identify the general framework of training activities for the
year, including: (a) the training envisaged; (b) the personnel to be trained; (c) the selection
methods of institutions or individual conducting such training; (d) the institutions conducting the
training, if already selected; (e) the duration of the of the proposed training; and (f) the cost
estimate of the training. Attendance at relevant project workshops and seminars will be treated as
training and will need advance Bank’s no objection.
45.     Operating costs. The operating costs would include reasonable expenditures for office
supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, banking
charges, rental expenses, and office equipment maintenance, utilities, document
duplication/printing, consumables, travel cost and per diem for Project staff for travel linked to
the implementation of the Project, and salaries of contractual staff for the Project, but excluding
the salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service. Operating costs financed by the project
will be procured using the administrative procedures described in the Manual of Procedures that
would be reviewed and found acceptable to the Association.
Procurement Implementation arrangement
46.     Overall Fiduciary Responsibility. The PCU within the MPTNT will be responsible for
overall fiduciary responsibility of the project activities in order to mitigate the procurement risk.
The PCU will carry out the following activities with the assistance of the procurement expert: (i)
overall coordination and quality control/assurance of all draft procurement documents (bidding
documents, RFP, Evaluation reports, TORs etc.) prepared; (ii) preparation and updating of the
procurement plan; (iii) seek and obtain approval of IDA on all procurement documents, if
necessary; and (iv) supervise the execution of project activities.

                                                 62
47.     Procurement expert. In addition to his daily responsibilities, the recruited procurement
expert will provide the following services: (i) develop and strengthen the MPTNT staff capacity
on procurement; (ii) reinforce and guarantee the integrity and internal review of the procurement
process; (iii) oversee and advise on procurement related issues; (iv) ensure the quality of
procurement activities; and (v) draft no objection requests for all procurement decisions subject
to prior review for the Project Coordinator.
Assessment of the PCU’s capacity to implement procurement
48.     PCU assessment. During the appraisal of CAB APL1B, an assessment of the PCU’s
capacity to implement procurement activities for the project was carried out by the World Bank
procurement specialist. The assessment reviewed the PCU’s internal arrangements for handling
procurement, the organizational structure for implementing the project, and the capacity of staff
responsible for procurement activities under the proposed project. The assessment also reviewed
the interaction between the project staff responsible for procurement and the MPTNT within the
framework of the new procurement code.
Assessment of risks and mitigation measures
49.    The risk factors for procurement performance include the country context and the
low procurement capacity of the MPTNT. This Ministry will be in charge of project
implementation. In terms of the country context, the CPIP and the experience of other IDA
funded projects indicate that procurement on the projects is likely to involve risks.
The overall project risk for procurement is high.
Measures to mitigate the risks
50.    The following strategy has been developed to mitigate procurement risks identified:
 To mitigate the risks of collusion, fraud, corruption, waste and mismanagement,
  implementation, arrangements will be geared to achieve a high level of transparency in
  project implementation;
 In case there is a publicly accessible project website at the country or Ministry level, it will
  host all relevant information to facilitate transparency and integrity of implementation,
  including the following: Project Appraisal Document; Financing agreement; advertisements;
  terms of reference for all activities; contract awards; a procedure handling complaints
  satisfactory to the World Bank; and complaints received and actions taken;
 The MPTNT, in close relation with the PCU, will create a database of suppliers of the
  required goods, construction contractors and consultants (firms and individuals). The
  database will also include information on current prices applied on the field.




                                                63
Implementation readiness
51.    The following actions were initiated or carried out during project preparation:
 A detailed Procurement Plan for the first 18 months of the project has been prepared and
  finalized during negotiations;
 The General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared and advertised locally and in the
  United Nations Development Business (UNDB) online and the DgMarket after Board
  approval.
52.     Fraud, coercion, and corruption. The Staff of the PCU, as well as bidders, consultants,
suppliers, and contractors, shall observe the highest standard of ethics during the procurement
and execution of contracts financed under the project in accordance with paragraph 1.15 and 1.16
of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraphs 1.25 and 1.26 of the Consultants Guidelines.
53.    Frequency of Procurement Supervision. In addition to the prior review supervision to
be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity assessment of the implementing agency has
recommended (i) supervision missions every six months to visit the field, and (ii) at least one
annual post procurement review. Missions in the first 18 months shall include a Bank
Procurement Specialist or a specialized Consultant.
54.     Procurement Plan. The Recipient developed a draft procurement plan for project
implementation, which provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan was agreed
between the Recipient and the Project Team during negotiations and approved by the World
Bank. It will be available in the project’s database and on the Bank’s external website. The
Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Bank on an annual basis or as required
to reflect the project implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity.




                                               64
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review

Expenditure                                                                        Contracts Subject to Prior Review
                       Contract Value Threshold (US$)    Procurement Method
Category                                                                           (US$)
1. Works               ≥3,000,000                        ICB                       All
                       < 3,000,000 - ≥100,000 <100,000   NCB                       First three contracts
                       No threshold                      quotations                None
                                                         Direct contracting        All

2. Goods and           ≥500,000                          ICB                       All
Services (other than   < 500,000 - ≥ 50,000              NCB                       First three contracts
Consultants’           < 50,000                          Shopping                  None
Services)              No threshold                      Direct contracting        All

3. Consultants’        ≥100,000                          QCBS                      All
Services               <100,000                          CQ, QBS, FB, LCS          First three contracts
Firms                  No threshold                      SSS                       All

Individuals            No threshold                      SSS                       All
                       ≥50,000                           IC                        All
                       <50,000                           IC                        Subject to post review


Details of the Procurement Arrangements Involving International Competition




                                                                              65
1. Goods
           (a) List of contract packages to be procured

                                    2                      3                          4             5               6   7                          8       9
                                                                                                                                                        Comments

                                                                                                                                           Expected
                                                                                              Pre          Domestic          Review by
                                                               Estimated    Selection                                                        Bids
                       Description of Assignment                                          qualification   preference           Bank
                                                               Cost (US$)   Method                                                         Opening
                                                                                            (yes/no)       (yes/no)         (Prior/Post)
                                                                                                                                             Date



                Component 2: Project Management
         Computer, Equipment, office furniture, software        100.000      Shopping          no              no               no          Dec. 2011


2. Works

 1                             2                                   3              4             5              6                 7             8           9

                                                                                                                                            Expected
                                                                                              Pre          Domestic          Review by
Ref.                                                           Estimated    Selection                                                         Bids      Comment
                  Description of Assignment                                               qualification   preference           Bank
No.                                                            Cost (US$)   Method                                                          Opening        s
                                                                                            (yes/no)       (yes/no)         (Prior/Post)
                                                                                                                                              Date



       Component 1: Connectivity

               Selection of a Private Partner through a
               competitive process (ICB) including a
               public contribution for building and
               operating the
               infrastructure for the CAB network in CAR
               including fiber-optic cables, terminal                                                                                      December
               equipments and switches.                    18,300,000       ICB           No              No            Prior              2011
       Total                                               18,300,000




                                                                              66
ICB contracts for goods costing the equivalent of US$500,000 or more per contract and for works costing the equivalent of US$
3,000,000 or more per contract and all direct contracting will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

3. Consulting Services

               (a) List of consulting assignments with short-list of international firms.

   1                             2                          3                  4               5                   6               7


                                                                                           Review by
                                                      Estimated Cost      Selection                        Expected Proposals
Ref. No.             Description of Assignment                                               Bank                               Comments
                                                          (US$)           Method                            Submission Date
                                                                                          (Prior/Post)


                      Component 1: Connectivity

           8          CAB related environmental and             200,000            QCBS            Prior    September 2011
                      resettlements consultancies



                      Total                                     200,000




                                                                          67
       (b) List of consulting assignments for individual consultants.

 1                            2                        3                   4             5                   6           7

                                                                                                          Expected
                                                   Estimated                         Review by
Ref.                                                                    Selection                         Proposals
                 Description of Assignment            Cost                             Bank                           Comments
No.                                                                     Method                           Submission
                                                     (US$)                          (Prior/Post)
                                                                                                            Date

               Component 2: Project Management
                                                                                                         December
               PCU technical assistance
10                                                  400,000                IC          Prior               2011



               Total                                400,000


       (c) Consultancy services costing the equivalent of US$100,000 or more per contract and single source selection of
           consultants (firms or individuals) regardless the contracts cost estimate will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

       (d) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultants for services costing less than
           US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the
           provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.




                                                               68
4. Non Consulting Services

Training: US$700,000

                  iv. Environmental and Social


1. Safeguard policies triggered and Project Categorization
55.     From an environmental and social safeguard standpoint, the CAB APL1B CAR is a
Category B project. That is, the environmental and social impacts of the project, for the most
part, are expected to be minimal, site-specific and manageable to an accepted level. There are
four Bank Safeguard policies triggered under the project. These include: Environmental
Assessment (OP 4.01); Natural Habitats (OP 4.04), Physical Cultural Resources (OP 4.11) and
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12).
56.     The fiber optic cable will be laid beside existing roads, with some local infrastructure
(shelters, technical rooms) being built or refurbished. While the environmental impacts are
expected to be minimal because the Right of Way (RoW) is established, there may be some
temporary disturbance and/or permanent resettlement of encroachers who have established their
households and/or businesses near or within the RoWs. The project will provide benefits to local
and sub-regional populations and operators, in terms of: establishing an open access network to
ensure the interconnection with neighboring countries; promoting greater awareness of ICT and
e-applications in the business community; and, providing a critical mass of small ICT businesses
with affordable and reliable access to the Internet and implementation of an effective
connectivity system. Nevertheless, there may be adverse impacts on the bio-physical,
socioeconomic and cultural environments, if proper mitigation measures are not in place. These
impacts, particularly in this sub-region may include: soil erosion and land degradation, loss of
biodiversity through land clearing and deforestation, sedimentation of waterways as a result of
lack of rehabilitation measure designed to restore soil structures (i.e. tree planting, vegetation
cover), land acquisition and/or loss of livelihood and economic activities on the part of project-
affected people, and impacts on cultural and historical resources.


2. Safeguard Instruments Prepared
57.     In line with the triggering of the four operational policies cited above and because of the
lack of site-specific information about the environmental and social characteristics of future
investments, the Project prepared two safeguards instruments, namely an Environmental and
Social Management Framework (ESMF) and a Resettlement Plan Framework (RPF). The details
will be provided during the feasibilities studies, at which stage the project will prepare detailed
environmental and social studies.
58.     The ESMF and RPF set out standard methods and procedures, specifying how sub-
projects, whose locations are unknown at this stage, will systematically address environmental
and social issues at all stages. These include: sub-project screening, categorization, sitting,
design, implementation, operational, and maintenance. At the core of this approach are: (i) the
systematic screening of all sub-projects; (ii) procedures for applying the environmental checklist
or for conducting ESIAs/ESMPs and RAPs – whichever or combination of which is deemed
                                                69
applicable – for all identified sub-projects, (iii) institutional arrangements for mitigating,
preventing, and managing the identified impacts; (iv) typical environmental management
planning process for addressing negative externalities in the course of project implementation;
(v) a system for monitoring the implementation of mitigation measures; (vi) environmental and
social environmental clauses to be inserted in the bidding documents; and (vii) recommended
capacity building measures for environmental planning and monitoring of project activities.
Guidelines and provisions for properly discussing and addressing impacts related to critical
natural habitats and physical cultural resources in sub-project specific ESIAs/ESMPs have been
amply outlined in the ESMF.
59.     Like the ESMF, the RPF also outlines the principles and procedures for resettlement
and/or compensation of project-affected people, and establishes standards for identifying,
assessing and mitigating negative impacts of program supported activities. In addition, the RPF
will guide the preparation and implementation of resettlement action plans (RAPs) for each
individual sub project that triggers the involuntary resettlement policy. Specific ESIAs/ESMPs
and RAPs will be prepared for relevant activities before project implementation. The two
safeguard documents have been prepared, consulted upon, and disclosed in-country and at the
InfoShop before appraisal. Relevant provisions for preparation and implementation of any
additional safeguards documents (i.e. ESIA/ESMP, and/or RAP) will be included in the Project
Manual of Procedures.


3. Public Consultation, Involvement and Disclosure
60.     The ESMF and the RPF for this operation have been prepared according to Bank and
national safeguard policies, following a consultation framework that took place before appraisal
and involved relevant stakeholder groups, both public and private, as well as in civil society and
local communities, consistent with the approach adopted at project inception. In CAR,
stakeholders7 have been consulted during the preparation of ESMF and RPF. Main issues raised
during the consultations were: involvement of local authorities in environmental and social
management, lack of capacities to really follow up social and environmental safeguards and
implementation arrangement for social and environmental safeguards. All issues raised during
these consultations have been taken into considerations into the ESMF’s and RPF’s conclusions
and reflected in the cost estimates for mitigation measures. This participatory approach will also
be carried on in the context of the preparation of each sub-project specific ESIA/ESMP and/or
RAP, as well as throughout implementation, maintenance, supervision and evaluation of the
project. This is designed to foster ownership and seeking input from these stakeholders in order
to improve quality and soundness of the instruments. Recommendations from both the Bank and
stakeholders' workshop are reflected in the final safeguard reports. The same approach will be
applied to each sub-project specific ESIA/ESMP and/or RAP.




7
   Préfecture et Mairie de Boali, Préfecture de Bossembele, Préfet, Mairie et services techniques Bossangoa,
Direction des Eaux et Forêts, Direction de l’environnement et de l’écologie, Direction des télécommunications
(SOCATEL), Agence de Régulation des Télécommunication (ART), Municipalité de Bangui (direction des grands
travaux), Direction de l’Urbanisme et l’aménagement du territoire., Direction de l’équipement de la reconstruction
et du désenclavement, Direction de l’Agriculture

                                                       70
4. Safeguard Monitoring Mechanisms
61.    Successful implementation of project safeguard requirements and performance
measurement requires regular monitoring and evaluation of activities to comply with national
and Bank safeguard policies. This will also help ensure that implementation of project safeguard
measures are systematically carried out all throughout the life of the project. To do so, the
following verifiable indicators need to be measured, as part of the project global monitoring plan,
because environmental and social management in this operation is, for the most part, governed
by safeguard frameworks:
    Number or % of sub-projects screened on environmental and social safeguard grounds;
    Number or % of subprojects needing specific ESIAs/ESMPs and/or RAPs;
    Number or % of ESIAs conducted with costed Environmental and Social Management
     Plans (ESMPs) and/or Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs);
    Contractor bidding documents with specific environmental and social clauses
    Number of ESMPs and/or RAPs implemented according to schedule in relation to the
     whole;
    Number/ Frequency of annual Safeguard supervision and project reviews undertaken;
    Number of training programs carried out for safeguard capacity strengthening; and
    Number of institutions/organizations or stakeholder groups trained in accordance with
     specified measures identified in the instruments.
62.     Though the Recipient is familiar with World Bank safeguards policies, having
implemented many Bank-funded operations, capacity for environmental monitoring and
enforcement remain weak. To ensure good safeguard performance and compliance with national
and World Bank policies, the ESMF and RPF include further provisions for capacity
strengthening at all levels for the successful implementation of the project safeguard measures, in
compliance with national and Bank safeguard policies. Specific attention is being taken to
strengthen the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) so that it can implement environmental and
social safeguards activities effectively.
63.     Key entities involved in the environmental function of the project include: the PCU who
will be assisted by experts to prepare detailed technical studies (i.e., feasibility studies,
subproject-specific environmental and social safeguard instruments), resident engineers, whose
team will include expertise in environmental and social monitoring and reporting to ensure
contractors implement proposed measures; the General Direction of Environmental and Social
Economy (DGEES Direction Générale de l’Environnement et de l’Economie Sociale) within the
Ministry of Environment, which will carry out external monitoring the implementation of project
safeguard and ensure compliance with national and Bank policies. DGEES will be assisted by
other institutions for technical backstopping in carrying out their mandate. DGEES will also
review and comments on subprojects specific safeguard instruments and ensure they are
disclosed in a timely manner.




                                                71
5. Arrangements for Safeguards Supervision
64.     The supervision of safeguards implementation for the project will be done as part of the
overall project implementation, by the PCU, with the assistance of environmental and social
experts, and the Ministry of Environment (DGEES). World Bank supervision teams will also
include the environmental and social safeguards specialists. To ensure effective Bank
supervision, the environmental and social staff within the PCU will prepare and update detailed
reports on the implementation of the plans prepared under the guidance of the ESMF and RPF as
well as subproject-specific ESMPs and/or RAPs, whichever is applicable, before Bank
supervision missions. Appropriate budget for project supervision will be included in the project
financial evaluation.
                   v. Monitoring & Evaluation
65.     The PCU will monitor and evaluate all project indicators, plus additional ones as they see
fit. The will bear the primary responsibility for project monitoring and evaluation (M&E), and,
as such, will establish standard formats and guidelines for data collection and reporting, and will
organize training sessions for project stakeholders in their use.
66.      The first order of indicators that the M&E system shall include lower indicators related to
quality, quantity, and time. An M&E system will be set up within the PCU to keep track of and
evaluate implementation progress of the proposed IDA project within the broader context of the
institutional framework for the telecommunications sector. Although increased geographical
reach and reduction of prices at the country level remains the hallmark of success of an enabling
environment, the project’s M&E system will seek first to measure results that are closely
associated with project activities. Hence, the first order of indicators that the M&E system will
look at shall include lower indicators related to quality, quantity, and time (see Annex 1).
67.     The PCU will designate a person responsible for M&E, based on the capacity assessment
of the PCU staff right after effectiveness. More specifically, the person responsible for M&E will
liaise with all the project’s stakeholders (through designated focal points) to gather relevant
information and data regularly.
68.     The views of direct beneficiaries will be brought into the monitoring and evaluation
process. Comprehensive M&E reporting will be needed to monitor the results and performance
of the project. It will involve mainly the direct beneficiaries of project activities, but will be
extended to other beneficiaries such as telecommunications operators and private ICT firms,
which ultimately are the main beneficiaries of the project’s outcomes. The PCUs will review and
validate the reports on performance indicators and recommend corrective action if necessary.




                                                72
               Annex 3b: Implementation Arrangements – Republic of Chad
                       AFRICA: Central African Backbone - APL1B

1. Project institutional and implementation arrangements will rely on those set up under CAB
   APL1A in Chad.

                   i. Project administration mechanisms

2.      The MPTIC is responsible for the overall coordination, implementation, and supervision
of the project. For each activity concerned, MPTIC, through the PCU, consults with and
delegates to the relevant agencies and ministries.
3.      The implementation arrangements involve three organizational levels: (i) a Project
Steering Committee (Comité de Pilotage) responsible for providing advice regarding cross-
sectoral issues; (ii) the PCU responsible for project implementation, coordination of activities
and fiduciary management; and (iii) a Chad CAB Technical Committee providing technical input
for the development of the regional backbone. For each activity concerned, the Steering
Committee, through the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), consults with and delegates to the
relevant agencies and ministries. The Steering Committee has fiduciary and governance
oversight.
4.     The figure 3 below identifies these agencies and ministries, as well as other entities not
concerned with the carrying out of the project.
                        Figure 3: Project Implementation Arrangements




5.      The role of the PCU. Day to day project implementation, coordination of activities and
fiduciary management of the project will be done by the existing PCU anchored in the MPTIC
and financed through the project. The PCU, in close collaboration with the technical team from

                                               73
MPTIC, is responsible for: (i) oversight of all technical, social, and environmental matters
relating to Project implementation; (ii) planning of Project activities and preparation of Project
annual work programs; (iii) monitoring and evaluation of Project activities including quality
insurance; (iv) financial management, procurement, and audits under the Project; and (v)
monitoring of implementation of the National ICT Policy with respect to the project. The PCU
also provides TA support to the Ministry by monitoring progress towards the government
strategy on ICT. The PCU is staffed with (i) a Project Coordinator; (ii) a technical expert on
Backbone issues; (iii) a procurement specialist; and (iv) a financial manager; (v) an accountant;
and (vi) an internal auditor. In addition, specifically for the implementation of CAB APL1B, the
PCU is recruiting a PPP expert to add technical capacity to handle the selection and supervision
of the Private Partner and the PPP structure. An environmental and social specialist will also be
available, depending on the needs identified in detailed environmental assessments. These
experts are financed by the project through performance-based contracts linked to evaluation
results acceptable to IDA. The PCU is housed in MPTIC to facilitate knowledge transfer and
strengthen capacity at Ministry level.
6.      Project Steering Committee. A Project Steering Committee (Comité de Pilotage) has
been established and is in charge of ensuring the consistency and smooth execution of the
project. It is functioning well, meeting at least twice a year. Placed under the MPTIC (or his
representative), it comprises representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of
Economy, Planning and International Cooperation and of the participating agencies and
ministries, as well as the Project Coordinator. The Steering Committee provides advice on
coordination of cross-sectoral interventions and ensures consistency of ICT activities carried out
by different agencies/ institutions.
7.      Technical Committee. The Technical Committee has been established to provide
technical inputs from all key stakeholders from the sector on issues related to the establishment
of the CAB network. All of the technical work being done under the project is benefiting from
their support and it is playing an active role in project development.
8.      Role of the CEMAC Commission. The CEMAC Commission is the regional body that
is responsible for the connectivity program at the regional level. The international fiber-optic
network to be financed by the project is being designed, developed and will be operated as a
single coordinated entity. A single tender will be carried out to select a Private Partner to develop
and operate the international CAB network in both countries. This will be done jointly by the
two governments working closely together. The CEMAC Commission will help convening the
two governments and facilitating analysis and decisions.
9.      Chad & CAR Joint Technical Team. The governments of both Chad and CAR are
responsible for the selection of the Private Partner. In order to achieve this, the design of the
tender documents and the selection of the Private Partner have to be undertaken jointly by both
countries. In addition to agreeing to the facilitation role of the CEMAC Commission, the
governments have also agreed to nominate a joint technical team to carry out the tender design
and procurement. With the support of the transaction advisor, the technical team will make
unified decisions and these decisions will be referred back to their national governments for sign-
off and forwarding to the World Bank for no-objection as necessary. The joint technical team
will be made of experts from both countries, including from the two PCUs (project coordinators,
PPP experts), from the two line ministries and from the two existing national Technical
Committees (described in paragraph 7 above). A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) will be

                                                 74
signed between the two governments covering the detailed implementation arrangements,
particularly in the area of joint decision-making, procurement and disbursement.
10.     Role of the transaction advisor. The transaction advisor (a consortium of investment
bank Compagnie Financière Cadmos, the law firm Eversheds, the audit firm KPMG and the
technical expert agency JIDCOM) was appointed to assist the governments, partners of the CAB
Project and CEMAC. The transaction advisor is a key element of the arrangements for the
successful implementation of CAB APL1B. The transaction advisor has notably defined the
public-private partnership structure and built country consensus on that structure. The
transaction advisor is also organizing the selection of the Private Partner for the development,
operation and maintenance of the CAB International network (drafting the bidding
documentation and supporting the joint technical team during the selection process).
11.    Role of the Private Partner. The Private Partner (through the PPP structure to be set up)
will be ultimately responsible for financing, building, maintaining and operating the regional
network under the terms laid out in a PPP Agreement that will be signed between the partner and
the two governments (see annex 2 for more detailed information on the selection of the Private
Partner).
12.     Project Implementation Manual (PIM). The PIM includes all procedures and areas of
M&E, coordination and implementation and financial management, including financial,
administrative, accounting and procurement, internal controls and audits. The PIM describes the
diverse roles, responsibilities, and individual work programs of each participating agency
(including the timetable that shall be respected to ensure the success of the project). A revised
PIM will be established covering the activities of both CAB APL1A and CAB APL1B. This will
be completed before project effectiveness.
13.     World Bank supervision. The Bank will conduct a minimum of two supervision
missions per year during project implementation, including an annual progress review. A
midterm review will be conducted, which will encompass: (i) a thorough review of the execution
of the project and the achievement of project objectives to date; and (ii) agreement between the
Bank and the Recipient on recommended measures to ensure efficient execution of the project
and successful achievement of project objectives in the period after the review, all in accordance
with agreed performance indicators. The anticipated date for the mid-term review is January
2014. The Recipient will provide the Bank a project completion report within six months of
project closing date and inputs to the Implementation Completion and Result Report to be
prepared by the Bank. The Bank will support public dissemination of project information,
including supervision reports on the project’s performance.


                  ii. Financial Management, Disbursements and Procurement
Country issues
14.     Following the last Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) carried out in
2003, the Government of Chad has undertaken to implement a series of PFM reforms aiming at
addressing the issues highlighted. To this end, a PFM strategy has been developed (PAMFIP,
Plan d’Action pour la Modernisation des Finances Publiques) targeting the following areas as
priority (i) operationalization of an Integrated Financial Management System (CID Circuit
Intégré des Dépenses), (ii) adoption of the legal framework related to decentralization, (iii) the

                                               75
setting up of Budget and Disciplinary Chamber as well as reinforcement of national control
institution, (iv) creation of a Ministry in charge Control and Moralization, (v) and civil service
reforms to identify ghost civil servants. PAMFIP was supported in its implementation by
component of a Bank investment operation. A recent Bank mission in Chad in December 2010
concluded that the remaining challenges to overcome in PFM area outweigh the progress made
so far. Among these challenges, the mission emphasized on (i) the weak coordination within the
Ministry of Finance which delays the budget execution, (ii) the weak human resource capacity
and (iii) the insufficiency in the information technology infrastructure. The Authorities have
committed to include the new recommendations highlighted following the recent mission into the
PAMFIP and pursue implementation.
Overall conclusion of the Financial Management Assessment of the MPTIC
Risk assessment and mitigation
15.   The following table summarizes the significant risks with the corresponding mitigating
measures.




                                               76
Risk                                Risk     Risk Mitigating Measures Incorporated into             Residual Risk
                                    Rating   Project Design

Inherent risk                       MI                                                              MI

Country level                       H        None. Beyond the control of the project. Still the     H
                                             implementation of the PFM reform strategy is
According to questions 13 and 16
                                             ongoing.
of the CPIA, the country is high
risk on fiduciary management

Entity level                        ML       The PCU was assessed in February 2011 (Chad) as        ML
                                             Medium Likelihood (ML) in terms of FM risk.
Risk that the ring-fenced PCU
                                             More capacity building through training will
which is set up inside the MPTIC
                                             continue to be delivered to the project to further
does not manage the project in
                                             mitigate the risk by Bank LOA and FM Units and
accordance with IDA fiduciary
                                             /or encourage project FM staff to attend training at
requirements.
                                             Bank accredited Institutions.
                                             A ring-fenced PCU has been set up within MPTIC
                                             to manage the project in accordance with IDA
                                             fiduciary requirements.

Project level:                      MI       Adequate FM arrangements agreed upon will be           ML
                                             implemented as detailed below and in line with the
The project involves many
                                             arrangements of the phase 1A.
stakeholders, which can be
difficult to coordinate.

Control Risk                        MI                                                              ML

Budgeting:                          MI       Adopt budgeting procedures and annual budgets          MI
                                             derived from the work plans. Budget execution and
Possibility of committing
                                             monitoring to be closely monitored. As per recent
expenditures outside the budget.
                                             assessment the budgeting control risk was assessed
No variance analysis.
                                             as Substantial with this respect due to delays in
                                             Budget preparation.
                                             Chad - Align budget cycle in accordance to
                                             timetable and prepare an adequate treasury plan.

Accounting:                         ML       As per recent assessment we observed deficiencies      ML
                                             in accounting in the CAB project. Rely on the
There is an accounting system in
                                             existing accounting procedures. Software to be
place; delay in keeping reliable
                                             installed in a network and some of the set-up to be
and auditable accounting records.
                                             updated to maximize the capacity.




                                                       77
Risk                                 Risk     Risk Mitigating Measures Incorporated into                Residual Risk
                                     Rating   Project Design

Internal Control & Internal          MI       Sound financial and administrative procedures are         MI
Audit:                                        in place and documented in a manual of procedures.
                                              The internal auditor delivers reports on a regular
Insufficient safeguards and
                                              basis. An action plan to apply internal auditor
controls may result in misuse of
                                              recommendations needs to be monitored.
funds and impede the execution
of the project.                               Internal Auditor is fully functional and playing his
                                              role in improving the control environment. Audit
                                              chart prepared & annual audit plan drafted. Internal
                                              Audit to develop and implement an action plan
                                              tracking mechanism addressing weaknesses
                                              identified in previous audit report, supervisions, etc.

Funds Flow:                          ML       FM/disbursement and implementation additional             ML
                                              support will be provided to PCU in order to be
The PCU may have a slow
                                              strengthening capacity. In addition a close
disbursement rate
                                              monitoring of budget execution should accelerate
                                              disbursement rate.

Financial Reporting                  ML        PCUs are privy to Bank’s disbursements and               ML
                                              reporting procedures.
 IFRs may be submitted with
delays and PCU lacks but is                   IFRs timely received and deemed acceptable.
already used to Bank’s
disbursement and reporting
procedures.

Auditing:                            MI       An independent external audit firm acceptable to          MI
                                              IDA will be recruited shortly with respect to the
No auditing arrangement in
                                              original project. Its terms of reference will be
place; the national audit capacity
                                              extended to cover the second phase.
is weak and not reliable.
                                              Recruitment of External auditor to be finalized for
                                              audit of FY2010 and TOR amended to for
                                              subsequent years to reflect specifics of second
                                              phase.

Fraud and Corruption                 MI       Anti-corruption provisions will be included in the        MI
                                              Private Public Partnership arrangements for
                                              infrastructure operations. Besides the proposed
                                              fiduciary arrangements are strong anti-corruption
                                              deterrents and will be all closely monitored by the
                                              project team altogether.

OVERALL FM RISK                      MI                                                                 ML


 The overall risk rating is deemed Medium-Impact (MI). Upon implementation of the mitigation
 measures, the risk rating might shift to Medium-Likelihood (ML).
 16.     Strengths. The financial management system is in place (including customization and
 training). A PIM for CAB APL 1A has been finalized and includes accounting, FM, auditing
 arrangements and procedures. This will be revised to take account of the additional activities

                                                         78
under CAB APL1B. Bank supervision missions have been undertaken and recommendations
and action plans provided and being implemented by the PCU and monitored by the FM unit.
17.    Weaknesses and Action Plan: Some additional capacity building of the Financial
Management team is deemed necessary especially with respect to the use of the computerized
accounting system.
Financial Management Action Plan

Issue               Remedial action recommended                Responsible   Completion       FM
                                                               body/person   date             Effectiveness
                                                                                              Conditions
Staffing at the     Appointment of the FM Specialist           PCU           By               No (Done)
PCU                                                                          effectiveness


Information         Additional training on Tom pro, and        PCU           By               No
system              have assistance contract in place.                       effectiveness
accounting
software
Administrative      Extend the use of APL1A manual to          PCU           Prior to                   Yes
Accounting, and     APL1B with emphasis on handling of                       effectiveness
Financial           the travel advances needs to follow the
Manual              defined procedures and fiduciary staff
                    ought to ensure a financial analysis is
                    systematically prepared for all missions
Internal auditing   Ensure that internal audit                 PCU           By               No
                    recommendations on APL1A are applied                     effectiveness
                    and extended to APL1B
External            Finalize recruitment of external auditor   PCU           Within 4 month   No
auditing            under APL1A then update Terms of                         after
                    reference to include APL1B                               effectiveness
18.   Implementing entity: A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been set up within MPTIC
to manage the CAB APL1B. The PCU already includes a coordinator, and includes a financial
manager, a procurement specialist, an internal auditor and, an accountant, all recruited on a
competitive basis
19.     Budgeting: The activities and the breakdown of cost to be financed under the project
have been identified. Annual work plans to be approved by the Steering Committee will clearly
detail the activities and will be translated into annual budgets. The PCU will monitor its
execution with the integrated financial software, in accordance the budgeting procedures
specified in the manual of procedures, and will report on variances along with the quarterly
Interim Financial Monitoring Reports (IFRs). The PCU will prepare the overall budgets on an
annual basis. The budgeting system needs to forecast the origin and use of funds under the
project for each fiscal year. Only budgeted expenditures would be committed and incurred so as
to ensure resources are used within the agreed upon allocations and for the intended purposes.
20.    Accounting policies and procedures: Chad is a member of OHADA organization, hence
adheres to OHADA accounting standards. The PCU will continue to maintain the books and
accounts of the project activities and ensure that the annual financial statements are produced in
a timely manner in accordance in line with OHADA (Organisation pour l’Harmonisation en
Afrique du Droit des Affaires) accounting principles – SYSCOHADA which calls for double

                                                          79
entries system. A computerized accounting system has been purchased for CAB APL1A and will
also record the CAB APL1B project’s transactions and generate accurate financial reports in
time.
21.     Internal control and auditing: Internal controls are in place, comprising the whole
systems of control, financial or otherwise, established by management in order to (a) carry out
the project activities in an orderly and efficient manner; (b) ensure adherence to policies and
procedures; and (c) safeguard the assets of the project and secure as far as possible the
completeness and accuracy of the financial and other records. The PIM will document the
internal controls with a specific focus on the following: (i) segregation of duties; (ii) physical
control of assets; (iii) authorization and approval; (iv) clear channels of command; (v) arithmetic
and accounting accuracy; (vi) integrity and performance of staff at all levels; and (vii)
supervision.
22.     An internal auditor has been competitively selected and appointed to ensure full
adherence to the procedures, pre-screen and clear all payments to ensure they are supported by
the following reliable evidences: (i) expenditures are budgeted; (ii) the service is rendered
according to the contract and (iii) the payment is within the available budget allocation. Besides,
the PCU will coordinate with the "Inspection Générale des Finances" -IGF- (General Inspection
of Finances) to include this project in their annual audit program and review it at least once a
year (given the Chad IGF plays a role as the internal auditor of donor funded projects).
23.     Financial Reporting: The PCU is responsible of recording and reporting on all project
transactions. The financial manager located at the PCU will consolidate information and submit
to the World Bank an IFR on a quarterly basis and not later than 45 days after the end of each
calendar quarter. The IFR must include the following tables, with appropriate comments; (i)
Sources and Uses of Funds; (ii) Uses of Funds by Project Activity/Component; and (iii) Special
account activity statement. At the end of each fiscal year, the project will issue the Project’s
Financial Statements (PFS) comprising: (i) a balance sheet; (ii) a statement of sources and uses
of funds; (iii) accounting policies and procedures; and (iv) an explanatory notes. These PFS will
be subject to annual external audits as described below.
24.     External audit: The project annual financial statements will be audited by qualified
external auditor for which the appointment is at its final stage under APL1A for. Its terms of
reference will then be updated to encompass APL1B for the subsequent years. The audit reports
comprising the audited financial statements, a single audit opinion and a management letter will
be submitted to IDA not later than 6 months within the end of each fiscal year. These audits will
be carried out in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing (ISA). The external
auditor will be recruited no later than four (4) months after effectiveness.. The tentative due dates
of the audit report will be as follow:


    Fiscal Year         Scope and Period covered                   Due date
    2011                January – December 2011                    June 30 2012
    2012                January-December 2012                      June 30 2013
    2013                January-December 2013                      June 30 2014




                                                 80
Disbursement arrangements and flow of funds
25.     Flow of funds- designated account. One new Designated Account in CFAF will be
opened in a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA and managed by the
PCU under the responsibility of the Project Coordinator and the financial management specialist.
This new DA-B will be managed by the PCU in terms of ensuring fiduciary standards and
accordance with Bank FM and Disbursement guidelines. Upon effectiveness, the DA-B will
receive an initial deposit equivalent to four month expenditures forecast and replenished
regularly through monthly Withdrawal Applications cleared by the Internal Auditor. Upon
effectiveness, the DA will receive an initial advance up to the ceiling amount of CFAF 350
million which is equivalent to four month expenditures forecast. Subsequent advances will be
made on a monthly basis supported with Withdrawal Applications cleared by the Internal
Auditor and provided the previous advance has been properly documented.
26.      For subcomponent 1.2 (Connectivity), disbursements will be made in installments
linked to milestones reached at key stages of the development of the network. Public
contribution payments will be made on the basis of customized Statement of Expenditures
certified upon certification of an Independent Engineer as to the achievement of the milestones
(e.g. constructed network segment) during the construction phase of the network. The
milestones that will trigger the installments will be specified in the PPP agreement. The actual
disbursements will be based on pre-determined construction costs, verification of the completed
milestones. The supporting documents for the payments would include the PPP Agreement, a
physical progress and financial report and verification report signed by an independent engineer.
These documents will be maintained by the respective PCUs for Bank supervision and external
audit. An independent verification of the satisfaction of milestones under the PPP Agreement by
the International CAB Company will be carried out by an independent third-party (e.g. technical
audits).


Allocation of Grant and Credit Proceeds:
27.     The World Bank will issue a “Disbursement Letter” which will specify the additional
instructions for withdrawal of the proceeds of the Grant and Credit. Table 6 shows the allocation
of the proceeds of the Grant and Credit by disbursement category.




                                               81
                       Table 6: Allocation of proceeds of Grant and Credit
                                    by disbursement category
            Category         Amount of the      Amount of the           Percentage of
                            Credit Allocated    Grant Allocated      Expenditures to be
                             (expressed in       (expressed in            Financed
                                 SDR)                SDR)            (inclusive of Taxes
                                                                        except VAT)
        (1) Goods,             1 000 000             800 000       100%
        Operating Costs,
        non-consulting
        services and
        consultants’
        services for
        Parts A.1, A.3
        and B of the
        Project

        (2) Public             9 200 000             7 500 000     Percentage of operating
        Contribution                                               costs, goods, works,
        Payments for                                               non-consulting services,
        Part A.2 of the                                            and consultants’ services
        Project                                                    as defined for the
                                                                   Recipient in the PPP
                                                                   Agreement

        TOTAL                  10 200 000            8 400 000
        AMOUNT



28.     Disbursement Methods. The transaction-based disbursements will continue to apply
whereby withdrawal applications will be supported by Statement of Expenditures or full
documentation. Once the PCU demonstrates its ability to submit reliable quarterly unaudited
IFRs, the project may shift to the report-based method in the second year if it sustains a
satisfactory FM rating. In addition to disbursing to the DA (“Advance method”), other
disbursement methods such as reimbursement, direct payment and special commitment will be
available to the Project. The minimum value for Reimbursement, Direct Payment and Special
Commitment will be 20 percent of the DA ceiling.
29.     Types of Supporting Documentation. The Bank requires either copies of the original
documents evidencing eligible expenditures (“Records”) or summary reports of expenditure
(“Summary Reports”). Disbursements will be supported by (i) Statement of Expenditures (SOE)
summarizing eligible expenditures paid during a stated period for amounts below the SOE
documentation threshold specified in the Disbursement Letter and (ii) records evidencing eligible
expenditures (e.g. copies of receipts, supplier invoices). In all cases, the PCU will be responsible
for retaining the original documents evidencing eligible expenditures and making them available
for audit or inspection.



                                                82
30.     Taxes. In line with Country Financing Parameters, the Grant/Credit will finance 100% of
eligible expenditures including taxes with the exception of the Value Added Tax (VAT). VAT
was excluded at the Recipient’s request as the financing of VAT would consume a significant
share of projects funds. The PCU will submit WA net of VAT and will ensure the VAT
exemption mechanism in effect in Chad is adhered to by suppliers and contractors.
31.    Financial covenants. Financial covenants are the standard ones, as described in the legal
documents, and are comprised of maintaining project accounts in accordance with sound
accounting practices, audit requirements and records well kept and secured.
32.     Fraud and corruption: Anti-corruption provisions will be included in the Private Public
Partnership arrangements for infrastructure operations. Besides the proposed fiduciary
arrangements are strong anti-corruption deterrents and will be all closely monitored by the
project team altogether.
33. List of Conditions.

Following are the FM effectiveness conditions:
    Preparation and adoption of the FM Procedures Manual (Will build on existing manual)

                 iii. Procurement
General
34.    Applicable guidelines. Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in
accordance with the World Bank’s “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-
consulting services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits & Grants by World Bank Borrowers”
dated January 2011; and “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants under IBRD
Loans & IDA Credits & Grants by World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011, and the
provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. For each contract to be financed by the
Grant/Credit, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for
pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between
the Recipient and the Bank in the Procurement Plan. The prior review and procurement method
thresholds indicated below are intended for the initial procurement plan. The procurement plan
would be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation
needs and improvement in institutional capacity.
35.     Procurement documents. All works, goods, non consultancy services and consultancy
services to be procured under this project would be carried out using the Bank’s Standard
Bidding Documents (SBDs) or Standard Request for Proposals, respectively for all ICB for
goods, non consultancy services and works, and recruitment of consultants. As the Government
has already revised its national procurement system and the new public procurement code has
been implemented since September 2009 and while waiting for the Bank to give its no objection
on the use of the national bidding documents, for National Competition Bidding (NCB), the
Recipient would use the World Bank’s SBD for ICB for goods, non consultancy services and
works, and the World Bank’s Standard Request for Proposals for recruitment of consultants.




                                              83
National procurement system and ongoing reforms
36.     Advertising procedure. General Procurement Notice (GPN), Specific Procurement
Notices (SPN), Request for Expression of Interest, and results of the evaluation and contracts
award should be published in accordance with advertising provisions in the following guidelines:
“Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-consulting services under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits & Grants by World Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011; and “Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants under IBRD Loans & IDA Credits & Grants by World
Bank Borrowers” dated January 2011.
Procurement methods
37.     Procurement of works. The amount of Works to be procured under the project is
expected to be small as the investment in the network infrastructure will be undertaken primarily
by the Private Partner. However, any procurement of Works will be done under ICB or NCB
using the Bank’s Standard Bidding Documents for all ICB and National SBD agreed with or
satisfactory to the Bank. Small simple works may be procured by requesting at least three written
quotations from qualified contractors.
38.    Procurement of Goods and Non consultancy services. Goods procured under this
project will include: computer equipment; office furniture; and accounting software. Non
consultancy services procured under this project will include workshops and training in the
region and abroad. Procurement will be done under ICB or NCB using the Bank’s Standard
Bidding Documents for all ICB and National SBD agreed with or satisfactory to the Bank. Small
value goods may be procured under shopping procedures.
39.    Direct contracting may be used where necessary if agreed in the procurement plan in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 to 3.8 of the Procurement Guidelines.
40.     Selection of Consultants. Consultancy services would include various advisory services,
feasibility studies, and environmental and social impact study. The selection method will be
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method whenever possible. Contracts for specialized
assignments estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent may be contracted through
Consultant Qualification (CQ). The following additional methods may be used where
appropriate: Quality Based Selection (QBS); Selection under a Fixed Budget (FB); and Least-
Cost Selection (LCS).
41.     Single Source Selection (SSS) may be employed with prior approval of the Bank and will
be in accordance with paragraphs 3.8 to 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
42.    All services of individual consultants (IC) will be procured under contracts in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
43.     Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
US$100,000 per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. However, if foreign firms express
interest, they will not be excluded from consideration.
44.    Training, workshops, seminars, and conferences. Training activities will comprise
workshops and training in the region and abroad, based on individual needs as well as group
requirements; on-the-job training, and hiring consultants for developing training materials and
conducting training. All training and workshop activities will be carried out on the basis of
                                               84
approved annual programs that will identify the general framework of training activities for the
year, including: (a) the training envisaged; (b) the personnel to be trained; (c) the selection
methods of institutions or individual conducting such training; (d) the institutions conducting the
training, if already selected; (e) the duration of the of the proposed training; and (f) the cost
estimate of the training. Attendance at relevant project workshops and seminars will be treated as
training and will need advance Bank’s no objection.
45.     Operating costs. The operating costs would include reasonable expenditures for office
supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, banking
charges, rental expenses, and office equipment maintenance, utilities, document
duplication/printing, consumables, travel cost and per diem for Project staff for travel linked to
the implementation of the Project, and salaries of contractual staff for the Project, but excluding
the salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service. Operating costs financed by the project
will be procured using the administrative procedures described in the Manual of Procedures that
would be reviewed and found acceptable to the Association.
Procurement Implementation arrangement
46.     The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the MPTIC will be responsible for overall
fiduciary responsibility of the project activities in order to mitigate the procurement risk. The
PCU will carry out the following activities with the assistance of the procurement expert: (i)
overall coordination and quality control/assurance of all draft procurement documents (bidding
documents, RFP, Evaluation reports, TORs etc.) prepared; (ii) preparation and updating of the
procurement plan; (iii) seek and obtain approval of IDA on all procurement documents, if
necessary; and (iv) supervise the execution of project activities.
47.     In addition to his daily responsibilities, the recruited procurement expert will provide the
following services: (i) develop and strengthen the MPTIC staff capacity on procurement; (ii)
reinforce and guarantee the integrity and internal review of the procurement process; (iii) oversee
and advise on procurement related issues; (iv) ensure the quality of procurement activities; and
(v) draft no objection requests for all procurement decisions subject to prior review for the
Project Coordinator.
Assessment of the PCU’s capacity to implement procurement
48.     During the implementation of CAB APL1A, an assessment of the PCU’s capacity to
implement procurement activities for the project has been carried out by the Bank procurement
specialist. The assessment reviewed the PCU’s internal arrangements for handling procurement,
the organizational structure for implementing the project, and the capacity of staff responsible for
procurement activities under the proposed project. The assessment also reviewed the interaction
between the project staff responsible for procurement and the MPTIC within the framework of
the new procurement code.
Assessment of risks and mitigation measures
49.    The overall project risk for procurement is rated high because of the country conditions,
the provisions of the national procurement code, delays experienced in the past with approval of
evaluation reports and signing of contracts, and the overall experience of poor management of
contracts in the past despite the fairly strong arrangements in place at the level of the
Implementation Unit.

                                                85
50.     For mitigating these procurement risks, in addition to strengthening the capacity of the
Procurement specialist by training, the Recipient and the Bank team have agreed to carry out at
least three missions per year for the first two years of project implementation to minimize the
risk of failing to follow procurement procedures as well as for supervision of project activities.
The Recipient and the Bank have also agreed to two supervision field visits per year to carry out
post-review of procurement activities. It also agreed to continue the dialogue with other partners
(African Development Bank, European Union and Agence Française de Dévelopement) to
encourage Government to review some provisions of the new Code and its implementation
decrees.
Implementation readiness
51.    The following actions were initiated or carried out during project preparation:
 A detailed Procurement Plan for the first 18 months of the project has been prepared and
  finalized during negotiations and approved by the World Bank;
 The General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared and advertised locally and in the
  United Nations Development Business (UNDB) online and the DgMarket after Board
  approval; and
 The selection of consultants for various studies to be financed by the project has been
  initiated and is expected to be completed by the project effectiveness.
Fraud, coercion, and corruption
52.    The Staff of the PCU, as well as bidders, consultants, suppliers, and contractors, shall
observe the highest standard of ethics during the procurement and execution of contracts
financed under the project in accordance with paragraph 1.15 and 1.16 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraphs 1.25 and 1.26 of the Consultants Guidelines.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision
53.      In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the
capacity assessment of the implementing agency has recommended (i) supervision missions
three per year for the two first year and every six months to visit the field after the two years, and
(ii) at least two annual post procurement review. Missions in the first 18 months shall include a
Bank Procurement Specialist or a specialized Consultant.
Procurement Plan
54.      The Recipient developed a draft procurement plan for project implementation, which
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan was agreed between the Recipient and
the Project Team during negotiations. It will be available in the project’s database and on the
Bank’s external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Bank on
an annual basis or as required to reflect the project implementation needs and improvements in
institutional capacity.




                                                 86
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review

Expenditure                                                                        Contracts Subject to Prior Review
                       Contract Value Threshold (US$)         Procurement Method
Category                                                                           (US$)
1. Works               ≥3,000,000                             ICB                  All
                       < 3,000,000 - ≥100,000 <100,000        NCB                  First two contracts
                       No threshold                           quotations           None
                                                              Direct contracting   All

2. Goods and           ≥500,000                               ICB                  All
Services (other than   < 500,000 - ≥ 50,000                   NCB                  First two contracts
Consultants’           < 50,000                               Shopping             None
Services)              No threshold                           Direct contracting   All

3. Consultants’        ≥100,000                               QCBS                 All
Services               <100,000                               CQ, QBS, FB, LCS     First two contracts
Firms                  No threshold                           SSS                  All

Individuals            No threshold                           SSS                  All
                       ≥50,000                                IC                   All
                       <50,000                                IC                   Subject to post review

Details of the Procurement Arrangements Involving International Competition




                                                         87
1. Goods
               (b) List of contract packages to be procured:

 1                           2                         3           4             5               6            7         8          9
                                                                                                                                Comments
                                                                                                         Review      Expected
                                                                                Pre          Domestic
Ref.                                               Estimated    Selection                                by Bank       Bids
                 Description of Assignment                                  qualification   preference
No.                                                Cost (US$)   Method                                    (Prior/    Opening
                                                                              (yes/no)       (yes/no)
                                                                                                           Post)       Date

       Component 2: Project Management
       Computer, Equipment, office furniture,
       software                                      100.000    Shopping    no              no           no         Dec. 2011


2. Works

 1                          2                          3           4             5               6            7         8          9

                                                                                                         Review     Expected
                                                                                Pre          Domestic
Ref.                                               Estimated    Selection                                by Bank      Bids
                 Description of Assignment                                  qualification   preference                          Comments
No.                                                Cost (US$)   Method                                    (Prior/   Opening
                                                                              (yes/no)       (yes/no)
                                                                                                           Post)      Date



       Component 1: Connectivity
              Selection of a Private Partner
              through a competitive process
              (ICB) including a public
              contribution for building and
              operating the
              infrastructure for the CAB network
              in Chad including fiber-optic
              cables, terminal equipments and                                                                       December
              switches.                            32,000,000   ICB         No              No           Prior      2011
       Total                                       32,000,000




                                                                            88
ICB contracts for goods costing the equivalent of US$500,000 or more per contract and for works costing the equivalent of
US$3,000,000 or more per contract and all direct contracting will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

3. Consulting Services

               (e) List of consulting assignments with short-list of international firms.

   1                           2                         3                4               5                   6               7


                                                                                      Review by
                                                   Estimated Cost      Selection                      Expected Proposals
Ref. No.           Description of Assignment                                            Bank                               Comments
                                                       (US$)           Method                          Submission Date
                                                                                     (Prior/Post)


                       Component 1: Connectivity
                       CAB related environmental
           8           and resettlements                     200,000          QCBS            Prior    September 2011
                       consultancies



                       Total                                 200,000




                                                                              89
       (f) List of consulting assignments for individual consultants.

 1                        2                          3                4              5                  6             7

                                                                                                    Expected
                                                                                 Review by
Ref.                Description of               Estimated         Selection                        Proposals
                                                                                   Bank                            Comments
No.                  Assignment                  Cost (US$)        Method                          Submission
                                                                                (Prior/Post)
                                                                                                      Date

               Component 2: Project Management
                                                                                                    December
               PCU technical assistance
10                                                500,000             IC           Prior              2011



               Total                              700,000


       (g) Consultancy services costing the equivalent of US$100,000 or more per contract and single source selection of
           consultants (firms or individuals) regardless the contracts cost estimate will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

       (h) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultants for services costing less than
           US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the
           provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.




                                                              90
4. Non Consulting Services

Training: US$700,000


                  iv. Environmental and Social
1. Safeguard policies triggered and Project Categorization
55.     From an environmental and social safeguard standpoint, the CAB APL1B Chad is a
Category B project. That is, the environmental and social impacts of the project, for the most
part, are expected to be minimal, site-specific and manageable to an accepted level. There are
four Bank Safeguard policies triggered under the project. These include: Environmental
Assessment (OP 4.01); Natural Habitats (OP 4.04), Physical Cultural Resources (OP 4.11) and
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12).

56.     The fiber optic cable will be laid beside existing roads, with some local infrastructure
(shelters, technical rooms) being built or refurbished. While the environmental impacts are
expected to be minimal because the Right of Way (RoW) is established, there may be some
temporary disturbance and/or permanent resettlement of encroachers who have established their
households and/or businesses near or within the RoWs. The project will provide benefits to local
and sub-regional populations and operators, in terms of: establishing an open access network to
ensure the interconnection with neighboring countries; promoting greater awareness of ICT and
e-applications in the business community; and, providing a critical mass of small ICT businesses
with affordable and reliable access to the Internet and implementation of an effective
connectivity system. Nevertheless, there may be adverse impacts on the bio-physical,
socioeconomic and cultural environments, if proper mitigation measures are not in place. These
impacts, particularly in this sub-region may include: soil erosion and land degradation, loss of
biodiversity through land clearing and deforestation, sedimentation of waterways as a result of
lack of rehabilitation measure designed to restore soil structures (i.e tree planting, vegetation
cover), land acquisition and/or loss of livelihood and economic activities on the part of project-
affected people, and impacts on cultural and historical resources.

2.     Safeguard Instruments Prepared

57.     In line with the triggering of the four operational policies cited above and because of the
lack of site-specific information about the environmental and social characteristics of future
investments, the Project prepared two safeguards instruments, namely an Environmental and
Social Management Framework (ESMF) and a Resettlement Plan Framework (RPF). The details
will be provided during the feasibilities studies, at which stage the project will prepare detailed
environmental and social studies.

58.     The ESMF and RPF set out standard methods and procedures, specifying how sub-
projects, whose locations are unknown at this stage, will systematically address environmental
and social issues at all stages. These include: sub-project screening, categorization, sitting,
design, implementation, operational, and maintenance. At the core of this approach are: (i) the
systematic screening of all sub-projects; (ii) procedures for applying the environmental checklist
or for conducting ESIAs/ESMPs and RAPs – whichever or combination of which is deemed

                                                91
applicable – for all identified sub-projects, (iii) institutional arrangements for mitigating,
preventing, and managing the identified impacts; (iv) typical environmental management
planning process for addressing negative externalities in the course of project implementation;
(v) a system for monitoring the implementation of mitigation measures; (vi) environmental and
social environmental clauses to be inserted in the bidding documents; and (vii) recommended
capacity building measures for environmental planning and monitoring of project activities.
Guidelines and provisions for properly discussing and addressing impacts related to critical
natural habitats and physical cultural resources in sub-project specific ESIAs/ESMPs have been
amply outlined in the ESMF.

59.     Like the ESMF, the RPF also outlines the principles and procedures for resettlement
and/or compensation of project-affected people, and establishes standards for identifying,
assessing and mitigating negative impacts of program supported activities. In addition, the RPF
will guide the preparation and implementation of resettlement action plans (RAPs) for each
individual sub project that triggers the involuntary resettlement policy. Specific ESIAs/ESMPs
and RAPs will be prepared for relevant activities before project implementation. The two
safeguard documents have been prepared, consulted upon, and disclosed in-country and at the
InfoShop before appraisal. Relevant provisions for preparation and implementation of any
additional safeguards documents (i.e. ESIA/ESMP, and/or RAP) will be included in the Project
Manual of Procedures.

3.      Public Consultation, Involvement and Disclosure

60.     The ESMF and the RPF for this operation have been prepared according to Bank and
national safeguard policies, following a consultation framework that took place before appraisal
and involved relevant stakeholder groups, both public and private, as well as civil society and
local communities, consistent with the approach adopted at project inception. In Chad,
stakeholders8 have been consulted during the preparation of ESMF and RPF. Main issues raised
during the consultations were: involvement of local authorities in environmental and social
management, lack of capacities to really follow up social and environmental safeguards, and
implementation arrangement for social and environmental safeguards. All issues raised during
these consultations have been taken into consideration in the ESMF’s and RPF’s conclusions and
reflected in the cost estimates for mitigation measures. This participatory approach will also be
carried on in the context of the preparation of each sub-project specific ESIA/ESMP and/or RAP,
as well as throughout implementation, maintenance, supervision and evaluation of the project.
This is designed to foster ownership and seek input from these stakeholders in order to improve
quality and soundness of the instruments. Recommendations from both the Bank and
stakeholders' workshop are reflected in the final safeguard reports, prior to disclosure. The same
approach will be applied to each sub-project specific ESIA/ESMP and/or RAP.



8
  Ministère des Postes des Technologies de l’Information et de Communication, Direction de l’Aménagement du
Territoire et du Développement Régional, Office Tchadienne de Régulation des Télécommunication, Sous-préfet de
Laloumia, Chef de village Moulkou, Chef de Canton de Bongor, Direction des Evaluations Environnementales et de
la Lutte contre les Pollutions et Nuisances , Direction Général des Routes, Secrétaire Général de la Commune de
Moundou, Préfet Adjoint/Secrétaire Général Préfecture de Massaguet, Ministère de l’Agriculture


                                                      92
4.      Safeguard Monitoring Mechanisms

61.    Successful implementation of project safeguard requirements and performance
measurement requires regular monitoring and evaluation of activities to comply with national
and Bank safeguard policies. This will also help ensure that implementation of project safeguard
measures are systematically carried out all throughout the life of the project. To do so, the
following verifiable indicators need to be measured, as part of the project global monitoring plan,
because environmental and social management in this operation is, for the most part, governed
by safeguard frameworks:

    Number or % of sub-projects screened on environmental and social safeguard grounds;
    Number or % of subprojects needing specific ESIAs/ESMPs and/or RAPs;
    Number or % of ESIAs conducted with costed Environmental and Social Management Plans
     (ESMPs) and/or Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs);
    Contractor bidding documents with specific environmental and social clauses
    Number of ESMPs and/or RAPs implemented according to schedule in relation to the whole;
    Number/ Frequency of annual Safeguard supervision and project reviews undertaken;
    Number of training programs carried out for safeguard capacity strengthening; and
    Number of institutions/organizations or stakeholder groups trained in accordance with
     specified measures identified in the instruments.

62.     Though the Recipient is familiar with World Bank safeguards policies, having
implemented many Bank-funded operations, capacity for environmental monitoring and
enforcement remain weak. To ensure good safeguard performance and compliance with national
and Bank policies, the ESMF and RPF include further provisions for capacity strengthening at all
levels for the successful implementation of the project safeguard measures, in compliance with
national and Bank safeguard policies. Specific attention is being taken to strengthen the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU), so that it can implement environmental and social safeguards activities
effectively.

63.    Key entities involved in the environmental function of the project include: the PCU who
will be assisted by experts to prepare detailed technical studies (i.e., feasibility studies,
subproject-specific environmental and social safeguard instruments), resident engineers, whose
team will include expertise in environmental and social monitoring and reporting to ensure
contractors implement proposed measures; the Direction of Environmental Evaluation (DEE)
within the Ministry of Environment, which will carry out external monitoring the
implementation of project safeguard and ensure compliance with national and Bank policies.
DEE will be assisted by the Directorates of Forestry, Hydraulics, and other institutions for
technical backstopping in carrying out their mandate. DEE will also review and comment on
subproject-specific safeguard instruments and ensure they are disclosed in a timely manner.

5.      Arrangements for Safeguards Supervision

64.     The supervision of safeguards implementation for the project will be done as part of the
overall project implementation, by the PCU, with the assistance of environmental and social
experts, and DEE. World Bank supervision teams will also include the environmental and social

                                                93
safeguards specialists. To ensure effective Bank supervision, the environmental and social staff
within the PCU will prepare and update detailed reports on the implementation of the plans
prepared under the guidance of the ESMF and RPF as well as subproject-specific ESMPs and/or
RAPs, whichever is applicable, before Bank supervision missions. Appropriate budget for
project supervision will be included in the project financial evaluation.

                   v. Monitoring & Evaluation

65.     The PCU will monitor and evaluate all project indicators, plus additional ones as they see
fit. The will bear the primary responsibility for project monitoring and evaluation (M&E), and,
as such, will establish standard formats and guidelines for data collection and reporting, and will
organize training sessions for project stakeholders in their use.
66.      An M&E system will be set up within the PCU to keep track of and evaluate
implementation progress of the proposed IDA project within the broader context of the
institutional framework for the telecommunications sector. Although increased geographical
reach and reduction of prices at the country level remains the hallmark of success of an enabling
environment, the project’s M&E system will seek first to measure results that are closely
associated with project activities. Hence, the first order of indicators that the M&E system will
look at shall include lower indicators related to quality, quantity, and time (see Annex 1).
67.     The PCU will designate a person responsible for M&E, based on the capacity assessment
of the PCU staff right after effectiveness. More specifically, the person responsible for M&E will
liaise with all the project’s stakeholders (through designated focal points) to gather relevant
information and data regularly.
68.     The views of direct beneficiaries will be brought into the monitoring and evaluation
process. Comprehensive M&E reporting will be needed to monitor the results and performance
of the project. It will involve mainly the direct beneficiaries of project activities, but will be
extended to other beneficiaries such as telecommunications operators and private ICT firms,
which ultimately are the main beneficiaries of the project’s outcomes. The PCUs will review and
validate the reports on performance indicators and recommend corrective action if necessary.




                                                94
                                             Annex 4: Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF)
                                                       AFRICA: Central African Backbone - APL1B
                                                        Republic of Chad – Central African Republic
                                                                  Project Development Objective(s) 
 
     The development objective of the proposed project is to contribute to increase geographical reach and usage of regional broadband network services and reduce 
     their prices. 
                                 
     PDO Level Results          International Communications (Internet, Telecoms, and Data) bandwidth  
     Indicators:                Internet subscribers per 100 inhabitants
                                Total teledensity (active fixed and mobile subscribers per 100 inhabitants) 
                                average monthly price of wholesale international E1 capacity link from capital city to Europe
                                Number of direct project beneficiaries (of which women %)
 
                                Geographic reach of mobile services: Coverage of mobile network (percentage of population covered) 

       Risk Category          Risk Rating                       Risk Description                                       Proposed Mitigation Measures 
    Project Stakeholder       MI               Program main stakeholders may not always have the        PPP scheme is designed to ensure private sector participation in 
    Risks                                      same immediate interests as the program or the other     the management and commercialization of the infrastructure 
                                               countries participating in the CAB Program.              financed by the Project.  Private sector already signaled significant 
                                                                                                        interest under transparent conditions.  
                                               The Government needs to demonstrate its strong            
                                               commitment to PPP and open access principle.             Detailed due diligence during preparation to inform all 
                                                                                                        stakeholders of the potential benefits that will result from a 
                                                                                                        successful implementation of the project. 
                                                                                                         
                                                                                                        In order to mitigate this risk, the project is currently benefiting 
                                                                                                        from the transaction advisor (a  consortium  of investment bank 
                                                                                                        Compagnie Financière Cadmos, the law firm Eversheds, the audit 
                                                                                                        firm KPMG and the technical expert agency JIDCOM) which was 
                                                                                                        appointed to assist CEMAC and the governments, partners of the 
                                                                                                        CAB Project, with a view to creating the structure of a public‐
                                                                                                        private partnership and selecting a group of investors for the 
                                                                                                        development, operation and maintenance of the CAB International 
                                                                                                        network.  
                                                                                                         
                                                                                                        Both Chad and CAR governments have issued in writing their 
                                                                                                        commitment to the regional PPP option proposed by the 
                                                                                                        transaction advisor and open access principles (letter from 
                                                                                                        Ministry of Planning dated April 26, 2011 for Chad and letter from 
                                                                                                        Prime Minister dated April 15, 2011 for CAR). 


                                                                                     95
   Risk Category    Risk Rating                      Risk Description                                           Proposed Mitigation Measures 
Implementing        MI             The implementing capacity of the involved agencies is         Both CAB APL1A and CAB APL1B include capacity building 
Agency Risks                       not strong and this is complex project but their lack of      activities for the implementing agency. In addition, the project will 
                                   technical knowledge of the sector is offset by the fact       benefit from the expertise of the transaction advisor on the PPP 
                                   that the agencies are already established and                 transaction as well as the support from CEMAC. 
                                   operational under CAB APL1A. 
Project Risks                                                                                     
 
 
   Design          MI             There are risks associated with (i) the negotiation of        The Steering Committees and the Technical Committees 
                                   the PPP arrangements, (ii) private sector investors           established by both Governments and comprising representatives 
                                   failing to contribute their share of the investment; (iii)    of all the sector stakeholders have been put in place under CAB1A 
                                   difficulties interconnecting at the Chad‐Sudan border         and will continue to provide advice on cross‐sectoral/technical 
                                                                                                 issues respectively. 
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                 Meetings and participatory process with the private operators in 
                                                                                                 the countries and with international operators that are potential 
                                                                                                 bidders for the project have reduced this apprehension. 
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                 The transaction advisor advising the governments on the project 
                                                                                                 is being partly compensated by a success fee. 
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                 The Governments officially committed to following the PPP 
                                                                                                 principles for the infrastructure by letter from Ministry of 
                                                                                                 Planning dated April 26, 2011 for Chad and letter from Prime 
                                                                                                 Minister dated April 15, 2011 for CAR. 
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                 Cross‐border interconnection is consistent with the regulatory 
                                                                                                 frameworks of both countries and private operators in Sudan have 
                                                                                                 confirmed that they do not see major political or regulatory 
                                                                                                 challenges in interconnecting. On‐going dialogue with the private 
                                                                                                 operators and regulatory authorities will help to ensure that there 
                                                                                                 are no political obstacles to implementing the PPP.  




                                                                            96
    Risk Category      Risk Rating                     Risk Description                                        Proposed Mitigation Measures 
     Social and       ML             The environmental and social impacts of the project,      The physical components of the CAB Program in Chad and CAR 
      Environmental                   for the most part, are expected to be minimal, site‐      will mostly be limited to the establishment of the regional 
                                      specific and manageable to an accepted level.             backbone which consists of terrestrial networks (e.g. fiber‐optic 
                                                                                                cables laid next to main national roads). The risk associated with 
                                                                                                the kind of infrastructure financed under this Program is low. 
                                                                                                Because of the lack of site‐specific information about the 
                                                                                                environmental and social characteristics of future investments, 
                                                                                                the Project prepared two safeguards instruments for each 
                                                                                                country: an Environmental and Social Management Framework 
                                                                                                (ESMF), and a Resettlement Plan Framework (RPF).  The details 
                                                                                                will be provided during the feasibility studies, at which stage the 
                                                                                                project will prepare Environmental and Social Impact 
                                                                                                Assessments (ESIAs), Environmental and Social Management 
                                                                                                Plans (ESMPs) and Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) as and when 
                                                                                                necessary. 
     Program and      MI             Although AfDB and IDB have reiterated their interest      Ongoing discussions with the two DFIs during project preparation 
      Donor                           in financing complementary activities in the sector       has provided the project team with better visibility on the division 
                                      and aim to get their projects approval during 2011‐12,    of labor.   
                                      the commitment has not been formalized yet.               The government of Chad and CAR and the WB team are strongly 
                                                                                                committed to delivering this project quickly and to securing the 
                                                                                                IDA financing. Additional funding from other financiers will 
                                                                                                complement the CAB network and reinforce the outcome of the 
                                                                                                project. The success of the CAB project in meeting its development 
                                                                                                objectives is not dependent on this additional financing.  
     Delivery         ML             Key data collections and sharing, particularly from       Training and TA will be made available for monitoring and 
      Quality                         operators, may be difficult as the market is highly       evaluation. The system will be designed in such a way as not to 
                                      competitive.                                              affect the operators competitively. 
                                                                                                 
                                                                                                The regulatory environment put in place under CAB 1A provides 
                                                                                                the project with an enabling framework. In addition, the 
                                                                                                advisory/coordination role of CEMAC should prevent any major 
                                                                                                setback at the political level. 
                                                                                                 
                                                                                                The PPP Agreement will include provisions for collection of 
                                                                                                relevant data for monitoring and evaluation purposes.  




                                                                            97
Overall Risk Rating at    Overall Risk Rating During 
                                                        Comments 
Preparation               Implementation 
                                                        The political and sectoral environments of CAB APL1B in Chad and CAR are risky. 
                                                        Despite adequate mitigation measures, the risk to preparation remains MI, mainly 
                                                        because of uncertainties related to the PPP schemes and the potential funding by other 
MI                        MI                            donors. The risk to implementation is rated MI to reflect the institutional and political 
                                                        risks in Chad and CAR that may jeopardize the implementation of CAB APL1B Chad and 
                                                        CAB APL1B CAR. The complexity of the international PPP scheme has also be factored in. 




                                                          98
                           Annex 5: Implementation Support Plan
                       AFRICA: Central African Backbone - APL1B
                       Republic of Chad – Central African Republic


1.      Overall approach to implementation support. The two governments are highly
committed to this project which will make a significant difference to the sector in both
countries. It will also be a major contribution to regional infrastructure, connecting two
landlocked countries to the global communications networks. The private sector also stands to
benefit significantly since it will give them access to low-cost, high-quality bandwidth which
will lower their costs and allow them to provide a better service to customers. There is
therefore very broad support for the project among all stakeholders. The primary challenge for
project supervision will therefore focus on the technical challenges of implement the project
and balancing the interests of the various stakeholders.
2.      Technical assistance on PPP structure. PPPs are not common in the
telecommunications sector in Africa. Most investment is undertaken by private operators
working in a competitive environment. The role of the government is primarily one of
regulating this competition. Successfully setting up a PPP therefore requires significant
technical expertise to make sure that the corporate and the contractual structures provide the
right incentives to investors while also meeting public policy objectives. This will be a major
part of the implementation support program. The World Bank team will be able to bring in
legal, engineering and financial experience from developing PPPs in telecoms in other
countries and also in other sectors.
3.      Technical assistance on tendering. The centerpiece of the project will be the
international tender to find a partner to invest in and operate the network. This will be a major
tender and will be crucial to the success of the project. The design of the tender including the
tender rules, the selection criteria and the PPP Agreement will all require significant inputs
from the support team. This will be a major focus of the Implementation Support Program.
4.     Supervision of implementation of the work. Under the procurement rules for the
World Bank, once the partner has been selected competitively, it is able to use its own
procurement rules to develop the network. The World Bank team will therefore not be directly
involved the procurement of the network. However, the team will need to ensure that it is built
according to the terms of the various tender and regulatory contracts as well as in line with
World Bank safeguards and anti-corruption policies and guidelines. The team will therefore
support the government in supervision of the work being undertaken by the partner.
5.      Location of teams. The supervision team has experienced of implementing similar
projects in other countries in Africa. The TTLs for these projects are primarily based in country
offices and are therefore close to clients. The team can therefore draw on a network of
expertise to support the government in implementing this project. This is complemented by
other skills and resources coming from Bank network in the Africa region and beyond. The
supervision team has well established working relationships with this network of specialists
within the Bank and can draw on them as and when needed.
Risks
6.    Risk relating to technical ability of the recipient to implement the project.
Broadband technology is relatively new in the Central Africa region and most of the expertise
                                               99
that does exist lies within the private sector rather than the government. Added to this, the
complexity of the PPP structure potentially increases the risk of difficulties with the
implementation. This is a trade-off – higher risk at the procurement stage in which a Private
Partner is selected in exchange for significantly lower risk during the development and
operation stages. The World Bank team has extensive experience of the technical issues that
are involved in this type of project. The implementation support plan has therefore been
designed to provide the technical support when it is most relevant – at the early stage of
implementation.
7.     Financing risk. As the project is being implemented as a PPP, there is uncertainty
about the amount of financing that the private sector is going to provide. This will be
determined during the course of the tender process in which one of the selection criteria will be
the amount that the Private Partner is willing to invest in the project. The financing plan
assumes that, as the network in the two countries is unlikely to be commercially viable in the
short to medium-term, the possible contribution of the private sector to the investment is
minimal. The project in CAR is therefore fully financed by IDA and there is little or no
financing risk associated with it.
8. The Implementation Support Plan to carry out the Strategy is presented in Table 7
   below.

                          Table 7a: Implementation Support Plan

Time      Focus                          Skills Needed                  Resource       Number of
                                                                        Estimate       Trips
First        Design of PPP structure       Legal                      US160,000      2
12           Drafting of PPP               Engineering
Months        Agreement                     Regulatory
             Tender design                 Procurement
             Safeguards                    Financial Management
                                            Safeguards




13-24        Tender implementation         Procurement                US$160,000 2-3
months       Supervision of work           Engineering
             Safeguards                    Financial Management
                                            Safeguards


25-48        Regulation                    Regulatory                 US$160,000 2/year
months       Financial Management          Engineering                per year
                                            Financial Management




                                              100
                          Table 7b: Skills Mix Required

        Skills Needed       Number of Staff       Number of Trips           Comments
                                 Weeks           (tentative plan for     (tentative plans)
                           (tentative plan for     project period)
                             project period)
Financial Management                                                   To be performed by
                                   10                     0
Specialist                                                             field-based staff
Procurement Specialist                                                 To be performed by
                                   15                     5            field-based and HQ
                                                                       staff
ICT Industry Specialist                                                To be performed by
                                   90                2 per year        field-based and HQ
                                                                       staff
PPP Specialist                                                         To be performed by
                                   10                     1            field-based and HQ
                                                                       staff
Legal specialist                                                       To be performed by
                                   10                     0            field-based and HQ
                                                                       staff
Engineering specialist             10                     3




                                        101
                             Annex 6: Team Composition
                    AFRICA: Central African Backbone - APL1B
                     Republic of Chad – Central African Republic


                 World Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project
          Name                                   Title                         Unit


Jerome Bezzina               Regulatory Economist                             ICT Unit
Mark D.J. Williams           Senior Economist                                 ICT Unit
Marc Jean Lixi               Senior Operations Officer                        ICT Unit
Doyle Gallegos               Lead ICT Policy Specialist                       ICT Unit
Aissatou Diallo              Senior Finance Officer                            CTRFC
Haousssia Tchaoussala        Procurement Specialist                            AFTPC
Charles Donang               Senior Procurement Specialist                     AFTPC
Sekou Keita                  Financial Management Specialist                   AFTFM
Patrick Bongotha             Financial Management Specialist                  AFMGA
Koyalta Ndordji              Information Analyst                                AFRIT
Diego Garrido Martin         Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist              AFTDE
Alexandra Bezeredi           Regional environmental and Safeguards Advisor     AFTOS
Nathalie Munzberg            Senior Counsel                                    LEGAF
David Satola                 Senior Counsel                                    LEGPS
Deo Ndikumana                Senior Operations Officer                          ACFRI
Amadou Konare                Senior Environment Specialist                     AFTEN
Lucienne M’Baipor            Senior Social Development Specialist              AFTCS
Laurent Besancon             Program Coordinator, Africa                      ICT Unit
Michèle Ralisoa Noro         Senior Program Assistant                         ICT Unit
Shabani Ely Katembo          Consultant                                       ICT Unit
Paulette Thioune Zoua        Program Assistant                                AFMTD
Berthe Tayelim               Program Assistant                                AFMTD
Carine-Reine Mbedo Ngassia   Program Assistant                                 AFMCF




                                         102
                         Annex 7: Economic and Financial Analysis

                      AFRICA: Central African Backbone - APL1B
                       Republic of Chad – Central African Republic


1.      Financial analysis. This annex assesses the financial viability of the technical options
available for CAR and Chad to improve international connectivity by implementing a cross-
border fiber link, while also taking into account the benefits of the link to the population
centers along the way to the border, as well as addressing other 'downstream' constraints to
effective uptake of the international bandwidth. The annex provides indications of the
economic and financial justification for investments as well as possible structuring options for
such investments, so as to achieve affordable connectivity at the most accessible rates for the
country.
2.     Opportunity Cost. When compared to current costs of about US$4000/Mbps/month
for satellite bandwidth a fiber route providing capacity at between US$300 and
US$400/Mbps/month should represent an annual saving to operators of about:
       US$1.5 million in CAR with the 34Mbps of international capacity being purchased at
        present,
     US$5 million in Chad, with the 140Mbps of international capacity being purchased at
        present.
3.      This saving would be expected to increase dramatically as bandwidth utilization levels
rise to reach levels seen in other African countries where bandwidth costs have been reduced
by a factor of ten or more. With reduced access costs, Internet penetration levels are also
expected to increase substantially among lower income groups, further increasing international
bandwidth requirements and the consequent savings over satellite bandwidth costs. As a
conservative indication, if only 10 percent of the population accessed a 'low-speed' broadband
link of 256Kbps,
      In CAR this would require about 4.5Gbps of international capacity, which would cost
       over US$200million per year if provided by satellite, compared to about US$20million
       if provided by terrestrial fiber
      In Chad this would require about 11Gbps of international capacity, which would cost
       over US$500 million per year if provided by satellite, compared to about US$50
       million if provided by terrestrial fiber.




                                              103
                          Table 8: Financial analysis assumptions

Key Statistics                                               CAR                        CHAD

Population (Dec 2010 est.)                              4,842,000                   10,329,000

Population growth rate                                      1.50%                        2.60%

Population in Capital City (mid 2010 est.)                568,469                      792,440

GDP/Capita (2008) PPP US$                                     745                         1,700

Area (sq Kms)                                             623,000                    1,284,000

Fixed Line Operators                                             1                            1

Mobile Operators                                                 3                            2

Internet subscribers (Dec 2010)                            19,000                        13,000


4.    A financial investment analysis based on these cost estimates and the following
assumptions was made:
      A 15% discount rate
      A 60% annual increase in international bandwidth required until 2017 and then a 50%
       increase until 2022
      Contracting takes place in 2011, but facilities not operational until beginning of 2012
5.       CAR. As shown in the tables below, the financial analysis was carried out using
different scenarios to compare pricing of capacity between US$100 and US$120/Mbps/month,
initial fiber deployment vs delayed fiber deployment (initial microwave deployment until about
1Gbps capacity is reached), and to compare the financial impact of just international traffic vs
inclusion of domestic traffic. The IRR varies from 0.6% to 10.6% depending on the traffic
assumptions, with two alternative pricing scenarios for domestic capacity ranging from
US$100/Mbps/Month to US$120/Mbps/Month.




                                              104
Investment Model                                 2010          2012            2022            2024         2026
Domestic Bandwidth used along route to              2                7          520             946         1845
Chad (3 provinces/30% of CAR
population)
International Bandwidth used (Mbps)                34           109           8,663          15,767       30,746
STM-1s used                                         1                1           56             102          198
Fiber to Chad + 3% OPEX                                  22,608,500 29,193,500           30,510,500   31,827,500
Cumulative cost
Geostationary Bandwidth lower estimate                    4,248,200        611,943,3 1,281,450,830 2,511,302,85
(US$2000/month), 2500/yr OPEX, 292K                                                                           4
CAPEX
Cumulative cost



NPV/IRRs:
SCENARIO 1                                                     2010            2012            2022         2024
Fiber to Chad from 2011
Cash Flow, US$120/Mbps/Month price                        -501,828 11,816,702            22,046,368   43,615,993
Cash Flow, US$100/Mbps/Month price                        -527,940         9,737,502     18,262,223   36,236,911
IRR to 2022, Wholesale b/w price of       2.96%
US$120/Mbps/month
IRR to 2022, Wholesale b/w price of       0.58%
US$100/Mbps/month



SCENARIO 2                                                    2010            2012          2022           2024
Microwave to Chad until 2017 then Fiber
upgrade
Cash Flow, US$120/Mbps/Month price                        92,360         11,816,702    22,046,368     43,615,993
Cash Flow, US$100/Mbps/Month price                        66,248          9,737,502    18,262,223     36,236,911

IRR to 2022, Wholesale b/w price of       10.58%
US$120/Mbps/month
IRR to 2022, Wholesale b/w price of       4.18%
US$100/Mbps/month



SCENARIO 3                                                    2010           2012           2022           2024
Fiber to Chad from 2011, including
domestic traffic revenues along route
Cash Flow, US$120/Mbps/Month price                       166,072 13,223,714            24,067,160     46,930,962
Cash Flow, US$100/Mbps/Month price                       -520,106 10,361,262           19,397,467     38,450,635
IRR to 2022, Wholesale b/w price of       6.5%
US$120/Mbps/month
IRR to 2022, Wholesale b/w price of       1.33%
US$100/Mbps/month



                                                        105
6.       In Chad as shown in the tables below, the financial analysis was carried out using
different scenarios to compare pricing of capacity between US$40 and US$100/Mbps/month,
initial fiber deployment vs delaying fiber deployment with an initial microwave deployment
until about 1Gbps capacity is reached, and to compare the financial impact of just international
traffic vs inclusion of domestic traffic and inclusion of CAR traffic in the case of the Chad-
Sudan link. The IRR varies from 3.5% to 40.7% depending on the traffic assumptions, with
two alternative pricing scenarios for domestic capacity ranging from US$40/Mbps/Month to
US$100/Mbps/Month.


Investment Model                           2010            2012       2022         2024          2026
CAR bandwidth required                       34             109       8,663       15,767        30,746
Domestic Bandwidth used along route to           6           21        1682         3061          5968
Sudan (3 provinces/22% of Chad
population)
International Bandwidth used (Mbps)         138             480      38,221       69,561       135,645
STM-1s used                                      1            3         247          449           875
Sudan Border Fiber + 3% OPEX                         32,033,000 41,363,000     43,229,000    45,095,000
Cumulative cost
Microwave Route Cost to Sudan Border                  1,916,145 39,729,635     41,595,635    43,461,635
+ 5% OPEX until 2014, then Fiber
Cumulative cost

NPV/IRRs:
SCENARIO 1                                                 2010        2012         2022          2024
Fiber to Sudan from 2011
Cash Flow, US$40/Mbps/Month price                     -702,600    17,412,886   32,456,512    64,176,548

Cash Flow, US$100/Mbps/Month price                    -357,000    44,931,714   82,540,780   161,840,871
IRR to 2022, Wholesale b/w price of 3.45%
US$40/Mbps/month
IRR to 2022, Wholesale b/w price of 16.21%
US$100/Mbps/month



SCENARIO 2                                                 2010        2012         2022          2024
Microwave to Sudan until 2015 then
Fiber upgrade
Cash Flow, US$40/Mbps/Month price                     139,155     17,412,886   32,456,512    64,176,548
Cash Flow, US$100/Mbps/Month price                    484,755     44,931,714   82,540,780   161,840,871
IRR to 2022, Wholesale b/w price of      6.68%
US$40/Mbps/month
IRR to 2022, Wholesale b/w price of      31.81%
US$100/Mbps/month




                                                     106
SCENARIO 3                                             2010        2012          2022          2024
Fiber to Sudan from 2011, including
domestic traffic revenues along route
Cash Flow, US$40/Mbps/Month price                -692,462     18,220,105    33,925,650    67,041,368
Cash Flow, US$100/Mbps/Month price               -331,656     46,949,762    86,213,626   169,002,921
IRR to 2022, Wholesale b/w price of   4.02%
US$40/Mbps/month
IRR to 2022, Wholesale b/w price of   16.86%
US$100/Mbps/month



SCENARIO 4                                             2010        2012          2022          2024
Fiber to Sudan from 2011, including
CAR and domestic traffic revenues along
route
Cash Flow, US$40/Mbps/Month price                 201,517     22,378,505    41,493,940    81,799,533
Cash Flow, US$100/Mbps/Month price                640,659     57,345,764   105,134,350   205,898,332
IRR to 2022, Wholesale b/w price of     12.37%
US$40/Mbps/month
IRR to 2022, Wholesale b/w price of     40.66%
US$100/Mbps/month




                                                 107
                       Annex 8: Estimates of the Cost of Construction

                       AFRICA: Central African Backbone - APL1B
                        Republic of Chad – Central African Republic


1.      Cost estimates for a fiber network. This annex provides estimates of the investments
required to develop a fiber optic network viable and independent on the CAR and Chad as part
of the CAB APL1B Project. This estimate was conducted on the basis of available information
in the reports provided by Axiom Consulting firm and after consultation with Jidcom
Consulting firm. Where detailed information on routing was not available, distances were
estimated on the basis of maps, without checking the feasibility on the ground.
2.       Basic routing. A budget estimate has been made for the following axis:
        Ndjamena-Bangui through Doba to join the existing network in Chad
        A link N'Djamena – Adré to the Sudanese border.

                            Figure 4: Overview of project routing




Cost assumptions
3.     Civil engineering and cable. The average unit cost for fiber civil engineering has been
estimated at US$26 per meter. This is a realistic value, given uncertainties about the feasibility

                                               108
of the route, taking into ac-count areas where engineering construction presents special
difficulties, the crossing of urban areas (even if they are limited), the telecommunication
buildings connections, and the laying of at least two ducts to allow evolution of the network
and to facilitate maintenance, as it has been previously agreed with the project managers.
These costs have been estimated according Axiom ratio assumptions, build essentially on
Sagem evaluations, and from equivalent construction in near zones (Burkina-Faso, Benin,
Togo, Cameroon) made by Marais company.
4.      Buildings. The unit costs contained in the Axiom report have been used, and were
slightly increased to take account of hazards:
        Shelter (container for power supply unit and repeaters): US$65,000
        Solar power supply unit for shelter: US$85,000
        Technical room refurbishment in existing buildings for PoP installation:
         US$150,000
Shelter and solar power supply costs have been build according to Axiom evaluation. No
further studies have been done for actualization. The costs for buildings have been evaluated
from public price of equipped shelters, and realization recently made in Africa for similar
backbone projects.
5.     Active equipment. The unit costs contained in the Axiom report have been used, with
a conservatory margin:
        LTE 10 Gbit/s, one fiber pair, 2 wavelengths: US$400,000
        Repeater: US$200,000
        SDH equipment, one fiber pair, 2 wavelengths: US$500,000
Equipment costs have been built according to Axiom evaluation. No further studies have been
done for actualization, apart from the conservatory margin addition.
N’Djamena – Bangui Route
6.     The link between Doba and N'Djamena has been built under the contract awarded by
the Chad regulator to STMI.




                                            109
                     Figure 5: Project routing N’Djamena - Bangui




7.   The additional infrastructure to be built under the project therefore consists of:
      Ducts and cable installation in CAR between Bangui and the Chadian border, via
       Bossembele and Boassangoa
      Cable installation in Chad between and Central African border and Doba
      Provision of shelters between Doba and Bangui
      Provision of WDM equipment on the path Bangui - N'Djamena
      Provision of SDH equipment in Bangui, N'Djamena and Doba.
8.   Civil engineering and cable

                                                Estimated distances (km)

                   Bangui-Bossembele                       147

                   Bossembele-Bossangoa                    148

                   Bossangoa-Bemai                         200

                   Bemai-Goré                               45

                   Goré-Doba                                85

                   Total                                   625

                                             110
9.     Location of shelters. The locations are indicative, but were estimated to validate the
technical configuration of the link. Building in N’Djamena already existing
        N’Djamena-Doba (640 km): 6 sites (5 according to Aztelco, one supplementary site
         needs to be planned)
             Doba – Moundou: 96 km
             Moundou – Kelo: 105 km
             Kelo – Bongor: 129 km
             Bongor – Guelendeng: 85 km
             Guelendeng – supplementary site - N’Djamena: 162 kmBangui-Doba (625
                km): 6 sites
             Doba – Intermediate site - Bémai: 135 km
             Bémai – Nana-Bakassa: 110 km
             Nana-Bakassa – Bossangoa: 70 km
             Bossangoa – Bodoupa: 90 km
             Bodoupa – South of Bossembele: 70 km
             South of Bossembele – Bangui: 140 km
10.    Active equipment. WDM long distance transmission equipment: 2 wavelengths (λ) at
10 Gbit / s over one fiber pair, upgradeable to 8 λ. SDH equipment will be deployed in Bangui,
N’Djamena and Doba.
                           Table 9: Budget Review – Link Bangui Doba

             Civil engineering       Buildings       Active equipment          Total
                and cable

  Country          US$m                US$m                US$m                US$m

  CAR               15.6                0.9                 1.9                 18.4

  Chad              1.2                 0,4                 2.4                 3.9




                                              111
N’Djamena – Sudan Route
11.    Assumptions. 1040 km from N'Djamena to Adré (Sudanese border).


                Figure 6: Project routing in N’Djamena – Sudan border




                  Table 10: Budget Review – Link N’ Djamena Adré

                  Civil engineering and cable    Buildings   Active equipment   Total

Country                     US$m                  US$m            US$m          US$m

Chad                         27.0                   1.7            2.4          31.1




                                           112
                        Table 11: Budget Review – Synthesis of estimates

                            Country     Civil eng. and       Buildings    Active equipment    Total
                                            cable

Link                        US$m            US$m                US$m           US$m           US$m

N’Djamena - Bangui          CAR                15.6                0.9          1.9           18.4

                            Chad               1.2                 0.4          2.4            3.9

N’Djamena - Sudan           Chad               27.0                1.7          2.4           31.1

Total                                          43.8                2.9          6.7           53.4



12.       The distribution of costs by country is as follows:
                  Table 12: Budget Review – Synthesis of estimates by country

             Civil eng. and cable     Buildings        Active equipment               Total

Country             US$m               US$m                 US$m                      US$m

CAR                  15.6                0.9                 1.9                      18.4

Chad                 28.2                2.0                 4.8                      35.0




                                                      113
                      Annex 9: CAB Program Background and Vision
                       AFRICA: Central African Backbone - APL1B
                        Republic of Chad – Central African Republic

1.      Background to the CAB Program. The Central African Backbone Program (CAB) is
a World Bank Group regional instrument aimed at catalyzing private sector investment to
improve connectivity in Central Africa. The World Bank CAB Program is designed to provide
broadband connectivity in Central Africa to all capital cities, main secondary cities and
establishing redundancy linkages which is estimated at a cost of about US$700million.
Broadband access and international and national traffic in the region and countries targeted are
expected to increase, while bandwidth costs and broadband access prices for end-users are
expected to decline rapidly. By the end of the program, all capitals and major cities in Central
Africa should be linked to the global Information and Communications network through
competitively priced high-bandwidth connectivity. Traffic in the region is expected to increase
by at least 36% CAGR, and bandwidth price projected to fall rapidly. This in turn should lead
to lower prices for telephone services and better access to the Internet, which will significantly
improve foreign and local private investment opportunities in the region, decrease the cost of
doing business and increase the prospects for job creation and wealth generation while
enabling countries to reap the benefits of ICT as a platform to deliver services to their citizens
and support natural hazards and emergency management systems.

2.     Funding. The proposed amount of IDA and IBRD contribution for the CAB Program is
US$215million over a ten-year period. The CAB Program is aiming at leveraging additional
US$97.8million from the private sector. Other financing will be contributed and leveraged
through other institutions (e.g. AfDB and others).

3.      The CAB program is structured as both a horizontal and vertical APL. It will
include CAP APL1 A and B (vertical APL) as well as further horizontal phases CAB APL2, 3
and other subsequent phases. This project is CAB APL1B. As a background, the first phase of
this program (CAB Phase 1) included CAR, Cameroon and Chad. This first phase was split
into two parts (i.e. as a vertical APL). The first part, CAB APL 1A, for a total amount of
US$26.2million, was approved by the Board of the World Bank on September 24, 2009 and
became effective in mid-2010. CAB APL1A focused on technical assistance to the legal and
regulatory frameworks for the telecommunications sector. CAB APL1B is the second part of
this vertical APL and includes CAR and Chad. This part is focused on investment in
international communications infrastructure through a PPP. Cameroon already has this
infrastructure which exists along the Chad-Cameroon oil pipeline and they recently approved a
project to expand the national fiber-optic network within the country. Cameroon has not
requested financing for international infrastructure links but continues to be a full member of
the CEMAC connectivity program.

4.      Other phases of the CAB program. The subsequent horizontal APL phases of the
CAB are being prepared based on individual countries' requests. CAB APL2 was initially
being prepared following the requests of the Governments of the Republic of Congo, and São
Tomé e Príncipe (STP) for a possible combined US$25 million IDA support. Given the pace of
project preparation and the nature of the investment in STP, it was decided to delink the two
operations and to only have STP (US$14.9 million) in CAB2 (approved in January 2011) and
the Republic of Congo (US$ 15 million) in CAB3 (approved in May 2011).

                                               114
5.     Future phases of the CAB program Subsequent phases of CAB would likely cover
Gabon, Equatorial Guinea and the Republic Democratic of Congo, and for a possible US$80+
million IDA support. Other phases may follow, as it is expected that other countries will
accelerate their dialogue to use IDA funds as the implementation of the first Phase operations
progress. Up to eleven (11) Central African countries may join: Cameroon, CAR, Chad,
Congo, DRC, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Nigeria, Niger, Sao Tome and Principe and Sudan.

6.      Role of the World Bank Group. The World Bank is well placed to contribute in the
context of a multiple development partners' effort: the WBG has been involved in the CAB
program since 2005. The Declaration of the CEMAC heads of state adopted in May 2007
called explicitly for WBG financial support for the implementation of the CAB program. The
overall program has been formulated with other key stakeholders and DFIs (the AfDB joined
the initiative in 2007) and is providing parallel financing for the CAB Program; the African
Union (AU) is also playing an important role in facilitating inter-governmental cooperation and
policy harmonization, in conjunction with the CEMAC, moreover, the Islamic Development
Bank and Japan International Cooperation Agency expressed their interest to participate in the
Project. It should however be noted that this project has been structured so as to achieve its
project development objective outcomes regardless of other donor financing materializing.

7.      The proposed operation is fully in line with the March 2011 Africa Strategy
“Africa’s Future and the World Bank’s support to it. By facilitating cheaper access to
internet and supporting the development of national and regional communications
infrastructure, the CAB APL1B project will promote sustainable employment (pillar 1
Competitiveness & employment ) and will create a critical building block for ICT applications
(Foundation Governance & Public sector capacity). The program also focuses on partnerships
(a key element of the Africa Strategy) by implementation via a PPP.

8.     Project development objectives for CAB. The overarching development objective of
the CAB Program is to contribute to increase geographical reach and usage of regional
broadband network services and reduce their prices.

9.      Project outputs. The program will seek to achieve the objective by focusing on
investments linked to fostering open and cost-effective access to communications
infrastructure. The main development outcomes will include: (i) support opening up the
telecommunications market to competition, improving policies and regulatory framework, (ii)
support the development of infrastructure with a secondary impact on the market through
reducing the cost of broadband services and making them more accessible, (iii) improve
efficiency of transaction processed through electronic e-government services and improved
user perception of services through electronic application. Result indicators will be defined
accordingly and in order to comply and be consistent with ICT Core Sector Indicators and
Definition as defined under the Bank's project coding system as of December 2009.

10.     Menu of Options. To maximize flexibility, client-responsiveness in a multi-country
environment and the specific national situation of each country (in terms of existing
infrastructure or policy environment), CAB has been designed as a menu of options which
individual Governments choose from in order to package their CAB operation. The individual
projects under the program will therefore include a customizable set of activities which have
been grouped under four broad headings or components, described in more detail below.

                                             115
11.    Regionality for the purpose of using the Regional IDA envelope. Following
discussions with Financial Resource Management, all of the options eligible for CAB financing
have been deemed regional in nature for the purpose of qualifying for the use of the Regional
IDA envelope - with the exception of eGovernment Applications (if applicable), which have to
be funded solely from the individual country national IDA allocation.

12.     Guiding principles. The following principles will guide the design of each component
of the proposed project: (i) utilizing a programmatic approach with detailed phasing of
activities; (ii) incorporating a results-based Monitoring and Evaluation framework; (iii)
leveraging Public Private Partnerships; and (iv) leveraging participatory approaches and
harmonization with development partners. Based on the above considerations, each proposed
operation can cover any of the following four components.

13.     Component 1 - Enabling environment at the regional and national levels - This
component will include the following activities : (i) Modernize and harmonize legal and
regulatory framework the Information Communication Technology (ICT) sector and the
Information Society; (ii) Strengthen capacity of public key stakeholders (i.e. Ministry and
independent regulatory agency); (iii) Promote a pro-competitive environment (i.e. develop
regulatory tools, liberalize the telecom sector, support introduction of new service providers,
restructure and privatize public incumbent operators, PPP promotion) to maximize benefit
from the regional backbone; (iv) Strengthen M&E capacity.

14.     Component 2 - Connectivity - This component will include the following activities:
(i) Finance the national infrastructure for the CAB including fiber-optic cables (with a potential
contribution for a submarine cable), terminal equipments, switches, to guarantee the
establishment of an open access network (open to all operators) on the basis of PPPs,
leveraging private sector investment; (ii) Finance the purchase of capacity on the CAB for
targeted users (schools, universities, hospitals eGovernment use) with discounted capacity
prices; (iv) Support to extend ICT in rural areas on the basis of PPPs and/or with competitive
award of subsidies (including country-specific innovative demand stimulation programs such
as Digital Villages and the SMS eService programs)

15.     Component 3 - Good Governance and Transparency, E-Government and Flagship
ICT applications - This component will include the following activities: (i) Finance the
establishment of government Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) to collect all the government
communication needs (voice and data) to be routed via the CAB and the establishment of
national and regional Internet Exchange Point (IXP), (ii) Support the relevant government or
public authority to ensure that the ccTLD is being administered in the public interest, within
the framework of its national public policy and relevant laws and regulations, and (iv) Deploy
flagship applications for which country champion and commitment have been identified to
improve internal systems, deliver services more efficiently and effectively, and make
information & services more accessible to the population.

16.     Component 4 - Project Management - This component will consist of support to
finance management related issues at the Project level. Depending on the specific
implementation arrangements for each country, this component may include elements such as
human resources support with management, procurement, financial management, M&E,
internal and external audit, and communications expertise, operating expenses and equipments.


                                               116
                                                                16E                                                18E                                                20E                                                      22E                                                    24E

               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                                            é
               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                    Aoukal
               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Nyala

                                                                                                                   CHAD
                                                                                                                                                                                               To                                                            Birao
                                                                                                                                                                                             Am Timan                                                                                                           CENTRAL
              10N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AFRICAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ulo u
                                                                                                                                                                                                           h   rO                  VA K A G A                                                                   REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ba



                                                                                                                                                         Bahr A ouk                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ouanda                                          Kafia Kingi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Djallé
                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                            BAMINGUI-BANGORAN                                                                                        os
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bong
                                                                                                                                     Sarh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          des
                                                                                                                                            Maïkouma                  an             Ndélé
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ch       aîne




                                                                                                                                                                    B
                                                                                                                                                                              go
                                                                                                                                                                                ra




                                                                                                                                                                                 n
              8N                                                                    To                                                                                                                                                         Ouadda                          Kaouadja                                                            8N




                                                                                                                                            Gribingui
                                                                                   Doba                                                                                                                                  Pata
                                                                 To
                                                             Baïbokoum
                                                                                            Markounda
                                                                                                                                                              Ba
                                                                                                                                                                m                                                                                      HAUTE-KOTTO                                                                 UD AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S UDAN
                                                                                                                                                                     gu




                                                                                                                                                                   in
                                                                                                               Batangafo                    NANA-                         i
                                                        ns
                                                                       Paoua
                                                                                                                                            GRÉBIZI
                                                             OUHAM-
                                               i




                                                                                                        OUHAM
                                             ta




                                                                                                                                                        Kaga                                       Yangalia                                        t




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              to
                                                             Bocaranga                                                                                                                                                                        Ko
                                           un




                                                                                                                                                        Bandoro
                                                               PENDÉ
                                      Mo




                                                                                                           am




                                                                                                               h
                                             Mt. Ngaoui                                                   Ou                                                                                                                       Bria                                   Yalinga                                H A U T-
                 To                                                                                                                                                                          OUAKA




                                                                                                                                                                                        ka
                                             (1,420 m)                                                                      Bouca
                                     rre




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MBOMOU




                                                                                                                                                                                     Oua
              Melganga                                                         Bozoum                   Bossangoa                                 Dékoa
                                 Ka




                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ippy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Djéma
              6N                           Bouar                                                                                            KÉMO                                                                                                                                                                                                   6N

                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MBOMOU                                               O uarr a
                                                         Baoro                                                                                                                               Bambari
              Bétaré Oya      NANA-                                                                                                              Sibut            Grimari                                                                      Bakouma
                                                                                                                   M
                             MAMBÉRÉ                                                                                ’p




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Obo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ink
                                                                                                                      o




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ba
                                                                                             Bossembélé




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ch
                                                                                                                      ko




                                                                                 Lo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                           M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mb




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M
                                               m                                   b                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     omo
                                            a




                                                   bé                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Zémio                                  Naandi
                                                        ré                                              OMBELLA-                                             i                                                                Mingala                                                                                        u
                                                                                   ay




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Rafaï
                                                                                                                                                          ngu Kouango                            BASSE-
                                                                                     e




                                                   Carnot                                               M’POKO                       Damara             ba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Bangassou
                                                                                                                                                                                                 KOTTO
                                                                                                                                                u
                                                                                                                                               O




                                     MAMBÉRÉ-KADÉÏ
                                                                                                                    BANGUI                                                                                                                                     To

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CENTRAL AFRICAN
                                                                                 Mb                     Boda                                                                                               Mobaye                                             Monga
                                                               Berbérati           aé                                                                                                                                                Ouango
                             To                                                                                           Bimbo
                                                                                                 L O B AY E
                                                                                       ré




                           Batouri         Gamboula

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REPUBLIC
              4N                                                                            Lo                                          To
                                                                                                 ba                  Mbaïki
                                                             Kad                                   ye                                Libenge
                                                                éï                                                                  Mongoumba
                                   To
                               Yokadouma                      Nola       SANGHA-
                                            Tomori                        MBAÉRÉ                                                                         DEM. REP.                                                                                                                                                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                       Salo                                                                                 CONGO
                                                                                                                                                        O F CO NGO                                     0          40          80     120               160   200 Kilometers                                        PREFECTURE CAPITALS

                     AM E    ON
                   C A ME RO O N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                           a
                                                                      Sangh




                                                                                                                                                                                                       0                 40               80                 120 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS

                                                                                    ONG O
                                                                                  C ONGO                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MAIN ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33384R
              2N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RAILROADS
AUGUST 2010




                                                                                                                                                o
                                                                                                                                              ng                                                                                                                                                                   PRFECTURE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                            Co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                16E                                                18E                                                20E                                                      22E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33385
                                              15°E                                                                                                             20°E                                                                          25°E


                                            To                                                                         0           100                  200                      300 Kilometers
                                         Akhaltsikhe


                                                                                                                       0                     100                                      200 Miles



                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHAD

                                                                                                                                                                      LIBYA
                                                                                                                  Aozou

                                                                                                                                       Tarso Emisou
                                                                 Pic Touside                                                           (3,376 m)
                                                                  (3,315 m)
                                                                                                                  sti
                                                                                                               be
                                                                                                            Ti
                                                                                  Zouar

20°N                                           To                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20°N
                                            Séguédine                                                                              Emi Koussi
                                                                                                                                   (3,415 m)

                                                                                                     S a h a r a                                            D e s e r t
                                                                                                                                     kou
                                                                                                                                 Bor

               N IG E R                                                                                                      BORKOU - ENNEDI - TIBESTI
                                                                                                                                                    Faya-Largeau


                                                                                                                                                                                                      Fada
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             a   r
                                                                                                                                                                                                          En                                               ow
                                                                         lé                                                                                                                                  ne                                          iH
                                                                     é




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ad
                                                                 d                                                                                                                                              di                                  W
                                                             o
                                                         B
                                                                                                                                    Koro Toro
                                                                                                                                         Toro
                                                                                                                                                               Oum-Chalouba


                                                                                                                                                        ma
                                                                                                                  o)                                O Fa
                                                                                                                or
15°N
                                                  KANEM                                                    al
                                                                                                              (S                                                                           BILTINE                                                                   15°N
                                                                                                     h   az
                                                                                                 G
                                                                                            el                                                                                             Biltine
                                                                                       hr
                                                                                  Ba
                                                       Mao                             Salal
                        LAC
                                                                                                                                B AT H A                                                                                          SUDA N
                                                                                                                                                                                          Abéché
                                                                                                                                                                                          Abéché
                                                                                                                                                                                          Abéché
                                  Bol                                           Moussoro
                                                                                                                                                    Oum
                                                                                                                                                   Hadjer                                                             To
                                                                     Mouzarak                                                    Ati                                                                                 Nyala
       1963 Level
        1973 Level                                                                                                                        Batha
         2001 Level                        Lake
                                           Chad
                                                       Massaguet
                                                                                                         Bokoro
                                                                                                                             Mongo
                                                                                                                                                              Mangalmé
                                                                                                                                                              Mangalmé                 OUADDAÏ
                                                 N´DJAMENA
                                                 N´DJAMENA
  N IG E RIA                     To
                               Fotokol
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Beïda
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Beï
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Goz Beïda                        This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the Map Design Unit of The
                                                    CHARI-                                                 Masalasef
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      colors, denominations and
                                                   BAGUIRMI                                                                                                  Deïa
                                                                                                                                                             Deï
                                                                                                                                                        Abou Deïa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      on this map do not imply, on
                                                                         Massenya                                                                                                                                                     the part of The World Bank
                                  To                                                                                                                                                                                                  Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                                                                        Timan
                                                                                                                                                                                     Am Timan
                                 Maroua                 Gélengdeng
                                                        Gélengdeng                                                 Melfi      GUERA                                                                                                   legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                         at                                                           or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                          S A L A M AT
                                                                                                                                                                     m




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      acceptance of such
                                                                                                                                                                  ala




                                                                                                     ha
                                                                                                 C




                                                                         Bousso                            ri                                                                                                                         boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                              hr S




                       To                              Bongor
                      Maroua
                                                                                                                                                            Ba




10°N
                                                                                                                                                                         Harazé
                                                                                                                                                                         Harazé
                               MAYO-
                               MAYO- KEBBI
                                                             Kélo
                                                             Kélo
                                                                         TANDJILE
                                                                         TANDJILE
                                                                          Lai                                   MOYEN- CHARI
                                                                                                                                                                      Mangueigne
                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Birao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CH A D
                                    Pala                                      L
                                                                                                                Koumra             Sarh                                                                                      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                              og
                                                                                on




                                                  LOGONE
                                                                                  e




                                                       Moundou                                                                                                   Ba                                                          PREFECTURE CAPITALS
                                                  OCC.         Doba
                                                                                                                                                                   ng




                                                                                                                                                                              r an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                         o




        C AM E RO O N                                    ORIENTAL
                                                  LOGONE ORIENTAL
                                                                                                                                            Gribingui




                                                                                                                                                        am                                                                   RIVERS
                                 Vina                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                        B




                                                                                                                                                          i
                                                                                                                           Kaga Bandoro
                                                                                                                                                            ng




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                              ui




                                                           To                               To                                                                                                                               RAILROADS
                                                         Bozoum                         Bossangoa
                                                                                                                             CENT RA L A FRICA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                 REPUBLIC
          Mbakaou                                                                                                                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
            Res.
                                     15°E                                                                                                                         20°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SEPTEMBER 2004
The original had problem with text extraction. pdftotext Unable to extract text.
