                               Document of
                            The World Bank


                                                     Report No: NCO2709



               NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION REPORT
               (IDA-49950 IDA-49960 IDA-H7220 IDA-H7230)

                                    ON


          AN IDA CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.8 MILLION
(US$ 11 MILLION EQUIVALENT) FOR IDA-49950, AND AN IDA GRANT IN THE
                      AMOUNT OF SDR 5.6 MILLION
              (US$ 9 MILLION EQUIVALENT) FOR IDA-H7220,

                                   TO THE

                     CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC

        AND AN IDA CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.4 MILLION
 (US$ 13.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT) FOR IDA-49960, AND AN IDA GRANT IN
                    THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.2 MILLION
             (US$ 16.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT) FOR IDA-H7230,

                                   TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF CHAD

                               FOR THE

     CENTRAL AFRICAN BACKBONE PROGRAM (CAB) APL1B (P116542)


                              June 12, 2013




ICT Sector Unit, TWICT
AFCRI, AFCC1, AFCW3Africa Region
                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 2013)

                                  Currency Unit =
                              F CFA 1 = US$ 0.0019788
                               US$ 1 = F CFA 505.34

                           FISCAL YEAR July 1 – June 30


                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAB         `        Central African Backbone
CAMTEL               Cameroon Telecommunications (national operator)
CAR                  Central African Republic
CEMAC                Communauté Economique et Monétaire des Etats d’Afrique
                     Centrale
CMU                  Country Management Unit
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
ICT                  Information and Communication Technology
ISP                  Internet Service Provider
IDA                  International Development Association
MDG                  Millennium Development Goal
MOU                  Memorandum of Understanding
OP                   Operation Policy
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
PPP                  Public-Private Partnership
ROC                  Regional Operations Committee
SDR                  Special Drawing Rights
SOCATEL              Société Centrafricaine de Télécommunications
SITCOM      `        Société d’Infrastructures de Transmission des Communications
                     électroniques par fibre optique du Tchad
SOTELCHAD            Société de Telecommunications Tchadienne




                              Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                Regional Integration Director: Colin Bruce
                             Sector Manager: Randeep Sudan
                       Project Team Leader: Jerome Bezzina
                         NCO Team Leader : Jerome Bezzina
             REPUBLIC OF CHAD AND CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
                 Central African Backbone Program (CAB) APL1B



                                                    CONTENTS



Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs



  1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design .............................................. 1
  2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation .......................................... 8
  3. Assessment of Bank Performance ............................................................................ 12
  4. Assessment of Borrower Performance...................................................................... 12
  5. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 13
  Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 15
A. Basic Information
                                                                            AFR:Central African
Country:                Africa                  Project Name:
                                                                            Backbone - APL1B
                                                                            IDA-49950,IDA-
Project ID:             P116542                 L/C/TF Number(s):           49960,IDA-
                                                                            H7220,IDA-H7230
NCO Date:               06/12/2013
                                                                            GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                            CAR, AND CHAD
Original Total
                        XDR 31.00M              Disbursed Amount:           XDR 0.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 0.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministere de la Poste, des Telecommunications et des Nouvelles Technologies (MPTNT)
 Ministere des Postes et des Technologies de l'Information de la Communication (MPTIC)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:         01/20/2011   Effectiveness:          12/15/2012
Appraisal:              05/10/2011   Closing:                12/31/2016             12/31/2016
Approval:               06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                       Not Applicable
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Not Applicable
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory



D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                               1
Public administration- Information and communications               7
Telecommunications                                                 92
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development               45
Other Private Sector Development                                      3
Regional integration                                                 34
Regulation and competition policy                                    10
Technology diffusion                                                  8

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                        At NCO                            At Approval
Vice President:           Makhtar Diop                          Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:         Colin Bruce                           Richard G. Scobey
Sector Manager:           Randeep Sudan                         Philippe Dongier
Project Team Leader:      Jerome Bezzina                        Yann Burtin
NCO Team Leader:          Jerome Bezzina



F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
        Date ISR
No.                              DO                           IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1    09/21/2011            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    0.00
                                                          Moderately
  2    04/09/2012      Moderately Satisfactory                                               0.00
                                                         Unsatisfactory
                             Moderately                   Moderately
  3    12/14/2012                                                                            0.00
                            Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
                             Moderately                   Moderately
  4    02/20/2013                                                                            0.00
                            Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design

      A. Regional and Country Context
Central African Republic
1      Central African Republic (CAR). CAR is a landlocked country that is rich in
natural and mineral resources. CAR has a population of 4.5 million, of which,
approximately 12 percent lives in Bangui, the capital city. CAR’s overall population
density is low at 6.9 inhabitants per sq km. The country’s nearest coastal port is Douala
(Cameroon). Transport costs are high due to a poorly developed infrastructure. The road
network covers around 25,600 km, but only 750 km are surfaced and many roads are
impassable during the rainy season. The Oubangui River is a key trade route, providing a
connection for passenger and cargo vessels from Bangui’s port to Brazzaville and
Kinshasa.
2       CAR continues to emerge from a fragile economic situation. CAR is a
landlocked nation, and one of the poorest countries in the world. It ranked 179th out of
187 countries listed in the 2011 United Nations Development Program Human
Development Index. The vast majority of the country’s population lives in rural areas,
and depends on food and cash crops as well as livestock for their livelihood.
Macroeconomic performance and policy implementation have improved in recent years
in CAR. Real GDP grew by an estimated 3.3 percent in 2010 as a result of a moderate
pick-up in timber and diamond exports and is expected to grow by over 4 percent in 2011
and 2012. CAR has been going through a severe political crisis that has paralyzed the
country for several months. CAR’s political instability has undermined efforts to alleviate
poverty and fight poor governance. Insufficient economic diversification left the country
vulnerable to trade shocks, increasing not only economic, but also political volatility. To
get out of this situation, the government needs resources to address political violence,
weak infrastructure, lack of basic services, insecure property rights, and corruption. On
March 24, 2013, the President fled to Cameroon as rebels seized the capital, Bangui. The
rebel leader proclaimed himself President and immediately suspended the November 27,
2004 constitution, dissolved state institutions, and declared a transitional rule on March
25, 2013. The same day the World Bank decided to trigger OP 7.30 for CAR (Dealing
with De Facto Governments).


Republic of Chad
3       The Republic of Chad is also a landlocked country and neighbors CAR. It has
a population of 11.2 million and a land-area of 1.3 million square kilometers, making it
the 5th largest country in the region. Chad’s economy has long been hindered by its
landlocked position, high energy costs, and a history of political instability. It relies on
foreign assistance and international capital for most public and private sector investment
projects. The economy is dominated by two sectors – oil and agriculture. Over 80 percent
of the population relies on subsistence farming and livestock for survival. Cotton
accounts for 80 percent of non-oil export earnings, with cattle and Gum Arabic making
up the bulk of the rest.


                                             1
4       Chad’s economic growth has been highly variable in recent years. Chad ranks
near the bottom of the global table in terms of economic and social development. The
country has long suffered from chronic political instability and from recurring civil
conflict. Exploitation of recently discovered oil resources fuelled a remarkable increase
in GDP per capita from US$220 in 2002 to US$610 in 2009, but this growth is fragile and
requires consolidation through sustainable economic diversification. Thanks to the surge
in international oil prices during the second half of the decade, revenues from oil vastly
exceeded projections, endowing the country with realistic prospects for ending the
endemic poverty and laying the basis for creating a modern economy. Visible progress
was made in developing the nation’s infrastructure and in accelerating urbanization,
especially during the past two years. Yet, even despite recent progress, much remains to
be done. According to the 2010 MDGs implementation report, only three MDGs are
within reach: primary education, access to safe water, and the fight against HIV/AIDS.
           B. Sectoral and Institutional Context
5       CAR and Chad have both made progress in modernizing their
telecommunications sectors. Both countries have liberalized their mobile markets and
have established dedicated regulatory authorities for the sector. They are both currently
revising their sector legislation to translate the Central African Economic and Monetary
Community (CEMAC) Directives for electronic communications services into their
national legislations. However, despite these reforms, the ICT sector in both countries
performs poorly when compared to regional benchmarks. Although mobile subscriber
numbers have increased since the liberalization process began, penetration rates in both
countries remain low by regional standards. Internet access is expensive and inaccessible
for the majority of citizens of the two countries.
6       Sector performance in CAR. Out of a total estimated population of 4.5 million
in 2010, the number of main fixed lines in operation was 3,237 (about 7.23 lines per
10,000 inhabitants) and the number of mobile subscriptions was 1.4 million, representing
a mobile teledensity of 31 percent. The number of Internet subscribers in December
2010 was 19,000, and the total international bandwidth for the country was extremely
low, estimated at 34 Mbps as of the end of 2010.
7       International connectivity for CAR. CAR has neither direct nor indirect access
to submarine fiber-optic cables. It is one of the few African countries that remain fully
dependent on satellite for international bandwidth. The current cost of bandwidth is
US$4,000-5,000 per Mbps per month, which is very high by regional standards. The
equivalent price in East Africa, for example, is approximately US$500/Mbps/month and
falling quickly as a result of intense competition between submarine fiber-optic cables.
8       Sector performance in Chad. The market has been growing rapidly, expanding
by 42 percent in 2009 and 37 percent in 2010. Despite this growth, mobile teledensity
remains low by regional standards, reaching only 29 percent by April 2011, less than half
the figure achieved by Nigeria. Broadband Internet in Chad is very limited. A company
called TchadNet is the sole internet service provider (ISP), offering a limited dial-up
service in the capital N’Djamena and an even more restricted DSL offering. There are a
number of internet cafes in the capital but these suffer from slow speeds and frequent




                                            2
power cuts. Business users often subscribe directly to satellite-based providers to avoid
the problems of these domestic providers.
9        International connectivity for Chad. Chad currently has one operational
connection to SAT3 international submarine cable 1 thanks to an agreement signed by the
SITCOM Chad 2 and Cameroon national incumbent operator CAMTEL. However, the
experience shows that, due to the monopolistic position of CAMTEL, the excessive price
of the capacity listed in the interconnection agreement directly affects the reliability and
prevents any improvement in communications services and international connectivity. As
a result, private mobile operators do not use fiber-optic connection to the international
submarine cables, and their international communications traffic is still routed via
satellite. Consequently, international calls are expensive for end users, two to three times
the cost in Cameroon, while an hour of internet access costs around US$4 compared to
just US$0.6 per hour in Benin.
The Central African Backbone (CAB) Program
10      The First Phase of the IDA-financed Central African Backbone (CAB)
program has two stages. CAB1 was initially designed as one IDA-financed operation
covering Chad, Cameroon, and CAR and encompassing sector legal and regulatory
reforms, the establishment of a regional Public-Private Partnership (PPP) entity to
manage the future CAB infrastructure, and the construction of backbone links toward
neighboring countries. During the meeting of the World Bank Regional Operations
Committee (ROC) on April 23, 2009 to review the project before appraisal, it was
decided to split CAB1 into two phases: a first phase (CAB1A) to support the
strengthening of the enabling environment, and a second phase (CAB1B) to support the
investment for the infrastructure PPP. The ROC based its decision on the lack of
readiness of the client to implement a PPP structure. CAB1A was then scheduled for
Board approval in July 2009, whereas CAB1B was postponed to allow more time for
preparation and appraisal of the PPP.
11      The implementation of CAB1A is facing several issues that are likely to lead
to the restructuring of the project after the Mid Term Review in May 2013.
Primarily, these concern (i) restructuring of incumbent operators in all three countries, (ii)
addressing Chad’s recent decision to restore exclusivity on the management of
international gateways to the incumbent, and (iii) the coup in CAR last March and the
current de facto government.
12      The CAB1A project was approved by the Board on September 24, 2009, became
effective on February 12, 2010, and has a closing date of March 15, 2016. It comprises
three IDA credits: SDR 8.5 m. to Chad, SDR 4.8 m. to CAR, and SDR 6.4 m. to


1
  SAT-3/WASC or South Atlantic 3/West Africa Submarine Cable is a submarine communications
cable linking Portugal and Spain to South Africa, with connections to several West African countries along
the route. It forms part of the SAT-3/WASC/SAFE cable system, where the SAFE cable links South Africa
to Asia.
2
  SITCOM Chad, a public company, was created to manage, operate and commercialize the national fiber
optic network financed by Government’s own resources. The company eventually disappeared when the
deal with SITCOM was terminated.


                                                    3
Cameroon. In Cameroon, the disbursement rate reached 31% as of April 24, 2013. It is
expected to accelerate within the coming months with the delivery of large contracts
($1.3 m. or 17.6% of the total project amount) including the purchase of frequency
management equipment. The procurement process of this item has been stalled since
December 2012, due to a major institutional change in public procurement in Cameroon:
creation of the Ministry of Public Procurement. The Bank recommended that all projects
approved prior to the creation of this new Ministry should retain their original
procurement arrangements. Government’s agreement on this took time to materialize and
delayed ongoing procurement processes. Regarding the incumbent, CAMTEL, the
Government has still not made any final decision on the option to be selected for its
restructuring. In CAR, the disbursement rate reached 55% as of April 24, 2013. The
project had been performing well until the coup of March 2013. The Government of
CAR had launched the recruitment of the consultant for the strategic repositioning of
SOCATEL (Société Centrafricaine de Télécommunications, the incumbent
telecommunications operator) in early February. Once the security conditions in the
country are normalized, disbursements should increase with the delivery of the frequency
management equipment ($1.1 m). In addition, a new ICT law was developed under the
project; its submission to Parliament is delayed by the political crisis. In Chad, the
disbursement rate remains low at 26% as of April 24, 2013. The expected disbursement
rate for end of July 2013 is 50%. A Presidential Decree dated January 21, 2013 restored
exclusivity on the management of international gateways (incoming and outgoing traffic)
to SOTELCHAD, the incumbent operator, contradicting the basic overarching goals of
CAB program: to "remove monopoly regimes through policy and regulatory support to
ensure that once in place, the infrastructure is accessible to all operators on open,
transparent and nondiscriminatory terms".
13      The development objective of the second phase project (APL1B) was
consistent with the PDO for the CAB Program: to contribute to increase geographical
reach and usage of regional broadband network services and reduce their prices. As
described above, CAB1B was intended as the second stage of the Phase 1, focused on
investment in broadband infrastructure through a public private partnership (PPP).
Progress under CAB1A to date falls into three areas (i) regulatory reforms; (ii)
strengthening CEMAC’s Telecom Department to provide assistance to member states;
and (iii) definition of the PPP structure which was intended to build and operate the
network financed under CAB1B. The CAB1B project directly targeted one of the major
constraints on the economic development of both Chad and CAR: their geographical
position. By connecting the countries to the global broadband networks, the project aimed
to reduce the cost of doing business, particularly for those businesses in which
communications with other countries is an essential component.
14      Triggers for moving from CAB1A to CAB1B. Two triggers were originally set:
(i) the Recipients and other stakeholders have established a legal structure that would
allow for the installation and management of the CAB network in accordance with public
private partnership (PPP) principles and Open Access regime; and (ii) the CAB legal
structure has established the legal rights to install, manage and operate the CAB network
on the recipient governments’ territories.




                                           4
Evolution of CAB1B

15     During the 18 months after the ROC meeting of April 2009, the Bank team
worked closely with the clients on meeting the triggers. Cooperation between the
Bank, the three countries, and CEMAC was good. Several workshops and seminars were
held among the parties.

16     In November 2010, Cameroon, the largest economy among the three
countries and the biggest market for the PPP, decided to withdraw from
participation in CAB1B. Cameroon proceeded to conclude a sole source contract with
the Huawei Company to build the fiber optic network in Cameroon.

17      With this decision by Cameroon, the entire project preparation had to be re-
set back to the starting point. Chad and CAR lost their sole access to submarine cable
capacity. The infrastructure had to be re-planned around a connection with Sudan, a
decidedly inferior solution. The investment bank advising CAR and Chad alerted the
Bank that the attractiveness to bidders for the international tender for the PPP would be
seriously diminished by this new configuration.
18     Cameroon was by far the largest and central pillar of the CAB1B scheme,
and its exit was perceived by the other stakeholder as a vote of no confidence in the
project. This had the effect of demotivating Chad, CAR, and CEMAC from maintaining
strong momentum toward to phase 1B. Nevertheless, in February 2011, the Bank
received confirmation from these clients that they were prepared to proceed with a
revised project.
19     Bank management made a significant decision in April 2011 that, despite the
need to completely revise the project design, the CAB1B project would be submitted
for Board approval by June 30, 2011. One of the key reasons was availability of
remaining IDA resources which would be lost at the end of the IDA15 period on June 30,
2011. Another reason was the need to lock in commitment of the two countries on the
policy side (open access and other sector liberalization): it was felt that a delay could
allow more time for those opposed to these reforms and allow them to mobilize. Given
the need to embark on a new set of studies and other preparatory work, this decision had
major implications for the “readiness” of the project, as explained below.
20      A ROC meeting took place on May 9, 2011 to review CAB1B prior to its
appraisal. At that point the triggers mentioned above had not been met. The legal and
technical assessment carried out by the PPP transaction advisor (hired under a Trust Fund
from the African Development Bank) made clear that the two triggers could only be met
once the Private Partner had been selected. The transaction advisor also indicated that the
commitment of IDA resources for the CAB1B (infrastructure investment) prior to
launching the international competitive bidding process would significantly strengthen
the interest of potential private investors.
21      Based on the above, the ROC meeting decided that the triggers for CAB1B
should be modified to: “written commitment from recipient governments to the
principles underlying the specifics of the PPP structure as defined by the investment bank
advising the governments on the PPP transaction”. The original two triggers were


                                            5
converted into effectiveness conditions. Although the required legal PPP structures had
not yet been implemented, consensus had been reached among recipient governments on
the details of the structure of the PPP. The governments sent letters to the Bank
confirming that they would implement the necessary measures related to the PPP
structure (Letter from Government of CAR dated April 15, 2011 signed by the Prime
Minister, and letter from Government of Chad dated April 26, 2011, signed by the
Minister of Plan and Economy). The proposed modified triggers to move to CAB1B were
therefore met.
22      Project description and components. The CAB1B project went ahead with the
aim of developing a regional fiber-optic network that connects CAR and Chad to
networks Sudan and Nigeria to compete with networks in Cameroon. The project was to
be implemented as a PPP, in which the Private Partner would partly finance, build, own
and operate the network. The Private Partner was to be selected by the two governments
through an international tender process on the basis of a minimum-public contribution
selection process.
                                                                    Project cost
                                                                   (US$ million)
                      Project components                          CAR         Chad
  Component 1 – Connectivity                                      18.9         35.5
(i)      CAB-related environmental and resettlements
         consultancies in CAR and Chad.
(ii)     Financing the PPP structure to develop and operate the
         link between Bangui and Bemal to Chad border. The
         network will include fiber-optic cables, terminal
         equipment, and switches.
(iii)    Financing the PPP structure to develop and operate the
         link between N’Djamena to Adré to the Sudan border
         and the link between Doba and Goré to the CAR
         border.
(iv)     Provision of technical assistance, including for the
         review, improvement and development of information
         laws, “cyber” legal and institutional framework,
         including with respect to cybersecurity, cybercrimes,
         privacy, promotion of the ICT sector and support to
         the national entities in charge of ICT.
  Component 2 – Project Management                                1.1          2.5
(i)     Support to finance management at the Project level,
        such as human resources support with general project
        management, procurement, financial management,
        M&E, internal and external audit, and communications
        expertise, operating expenses and equipment.
  Total                                                           20.0         38.0



                                             6
23      Allocations from national and regional IDA funding. Since this was a regional
project, supplementary regional IDA funding was allocated to leverage national IDA
allocations.
                         Table 5: IDA allocations (US$ million)
                      Regional IDA       National IDA      Government            Total
 CAR                       18.0                  2.0                              20.0
 Chad                      25.0                  5.0              8.0             38.0
 Total                     43.0                  7.0              8.0             58.0
24     The project design combined both regional and national dimensions. The two
governments were to be responsible for designing and implementing the procurement
process, undertaking expenditures, and monitoring and evaluation. To carry out these
functions, the governments were to utilize structures that had already been set up during
CAB1A, specifically the Project Coordination Units (PCUs) as well as the transaction
adviser to help carry out the selection of the CAB network Private Partner.
25     The CAB1B project included significant risks and benefits at the regional
and country levels. Potential risks were summarized in the Operational Risk
Assessment Framework. The overall risks to project preparation and implementation
were rated MI (Medium driven by Impact). Some significant risks were related to the
PPP scheme: (i) risks associated with the weak capacity of the involved agencies to
negotiate the PPP arrangements and (ii) risks associated with private investors failing to
contribute their share of the investments. Another set of risks concerned the relations
between Chad and Sudan, specifically the potential difficulties of interconnecting at the
Chad-Sudan border (political situation in Darfur). Further risks were associated with the
timely establishment of a sound regulatory environment and the ability of wholesale price
reductions to be translated into lower retail prices. A transaction advisor (a consortium of
investment bank Compagnie Financière Cadmos, the law firm Eversheds, the audit firm
KPMG and the technical expert agency JIDCOM) was appointed to assist CEMAC and
the governments, partners of the CAB Project, with a view to creating the structure of a
public private partnership and selecting a group of investors for the development,
operation and maintenance of the CAB International network. However, this proved
inadequate in hindsight.
26     By converting the original triggers into effectiveness conditions, the Bank
made it easier to get the project approved by the Board quickly, but it also pushed
downstream the difficult hurdles that the countries had to cross over to establish the
legal and institutional structures for the PPP. In effect, this decision transferred the
considerable efforts and risks associated with the establishment of the PPP from the
preparation phase to the post-approval/pre-effectiveness phase. The main cause of the
eventual cancellation of the project—Chad’s establishment of SITCOM (as explained
below)—was not foreseeable at the time. However, in deciding to go for a rapid Board
approval, insufficient weight was given to the fact that consummating the PPP deal had
become much riskier with only Chad and CAR participating.


                                             7
2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation.
27     The investment in Chad and Central African Republic would result in a
Public-Private Partnership, which was supposed to take the form of a fibre-optic
network concession for national and international networks. For the national
networks (called national-CAB), each government was to create a holding company to
own the fibre-optic network in its territory and would select, through a tender, a
concession holder to finance, build and manage the network. The government would then
own a share in the concession holder (35% for Chad, and a percentage to be determined
in Central African Republic). Funding would be provided by countries’ institutional
partners and the private sector. For the international network (called international-CAB),
the two governments were to award to a Management Company, selected through a
global tender organized by the CEMAC Commission and controlled by the two
governments, (i) a sui generis concession contract to develop, manage and maintain a
network consisting of two fibre-optic pairs dedicated to international traffic, and (ii) two
operating licenses. The Management Company was to take the form of a holding
company which would own an operating company in each country.
28       In Chad, for the national CAB, the government committed during negotiations:
(i) to creating an asset holding company (“société de patrimoine”) to own the fibre-optic
network in its territory and (ii) to selecting a company to be responsible for financing,
building and managing the network, in which the government would hold a 35% stake.
Financing was to be provided by Chad’s institutional partners and the private sector.
29      For the International CAB (the IDA-financed Project), it was agreed that the
governments would, through their respective asset holding companies, issue concessions
for the construction and management of the international network and grant these
companies national licenses or authorizations depending on the country concerned. This
was to be done through a single tender process managed by CEMAC on behalf of Chad
and CAR. It was thus agreed among the World Bank, Chad and CAR during project
preparation and in regional workshops convened with representatives of CAR, Chad,
CEMAC and the African Development Bank (AfDB), that both international and national
traffic would be managed through two separate entities (national companies in both
countries) The financial and economic analyses, including the sustainability model of
the project, were based on this assumption. The business model was sufficiently
attractive to raise the interest of international telecom operators.
30      The CAB1B project was approved by the Board of Executive Directors on
June 30, 2011. Following a lengthy process (described below), the Financing
Agreements with Chad and CAR, respectively, were signed on April 13 and April 18,
2012, respectively. Pursuant to the then-applicable OP 13.00 governing effectiveness of
credits and grants, the effectiveness date would not "normally" exceed 18 months after
credit/grant approval. 3 Thus, the 18 month normal maximum period for effectiveness of




3
    OP/BP 13.00 has since been retired and its provisions incorporated in Paragraph 32 of the new BP/10.00.



                                                      8
this operation—absent an exceptional approval by the World Bank’s Regional Vice
President—was to expire on December 31, 2012.
31      Due to the regional nature of the Project, both Financing Agreements
included a cross-effectiveness condition related to the execution, delivery and
effectiveness of the other country’s Financing Agreement. In addition, some of the
effectiveness conditions were inter-related, the two most important requiring:
   i.   the establishment of the legal structure for the installation and management of
        the International CAB Network in accordance with PPP principles by: (i)
        establishing the International CAB Company and (ii) signing the PPP Agreement
        with [Chad/CAR], the Private Partner and the International CAB Company, all in
        form and substance and pursuant to terms and conditions satisfactory to the
        Association; and
  ii.   the signature of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) between Chad and
        CAR describing the countries’ roles and responsibilities regarding the
        implementation of the Project, including but not limited to detailed arrangements
        for the procurement procedures applicable to the selection of the Private Partner
        and arrangement for the common regulatory oversight of the International CAB
        Company and the International CAB Network. This condition was fulfilled when
        the MOU was signed on May 24, 2012.

32       The day before the initially scheduled CAR and Chad signing ceremonies on
November 8, 2011, the Bank received a letter from the Chad Government indicating
that they were no longer willing to sign the Financing Agreement as negotiated. The
letter raised several design-related issues which questioned the fundamental principles of
the Project. A few weeks before the receipt of the letter, the Bank had become informally
aware that a public company (SITCOM Chad) was being created to manage, operate and
commercialize the national fiber optic network financed by Government’s own resources.
As the Bank proceeded to discuss the November 8 letter with the Chadian authorities, it
was revealed that the Government of Chad was entering into parallel negotiations with a
private operator for the management of the SITCOM infrastructure, in direct
contradiction with the principles agreed upon during project preparation and negotiations.
The Chadian government negotiated this arrangement directly with the private partner on
a sole source basis. The deal that was eventually finalized (in January and April 2012)
involved a shareholder's agreement (SA) with a private company, providing partial
ownership of the constructed SITCOM assets (51 % of the fiberlink between Doba and
Ndjamena) and the right to control and operate SITCOM infrastructure for a period of 10
years.
33     Between November 2011 and March 2012, the Bank team carried out several
missions to Chad and CAR to better understand the concerns of the Chadian
authorities and to propose options compliant with the Financing Agreements. The
highest authorities in CAR were also concerned about Chad’s sudden change of plans and
sent a delegation in December 2011 to meet with the Chadian Government. The many
rounds of discussions culminated in an audience in N’Djamena on March 23, 2012 with
the Minister of Planning, attended by the Minister and Secretary General of Telecom, the
SITCOM General Manager, the CAB Project Coordinator, the Transaction Advisor, the


                                            9
Bank Country Manager, and the Bank TTL. The result of this meeting was an instruction
from the Minister of Planning to proceed with the project as negotiated. The Bank
documented this in an Aide Memoire and management letter dated April 5, 2012. The
decision of the Minister of Planning evidently triggered the Government of Chad’s
signing of the Financing Agreement on April 13, 2012.
34      On May 22, 2012, during a Chad-CAR-CEMAC regional workshop to
finalize and sign the above mentioned MoU, the Chad Government, upon the World
Bank team’s request, finally officially disclosed the SITCOM transaction
documentation to the Bank. The Transaction Adviser conducted a legal analysis, which
showed that key features of the SITCOM transaction were clearly contradictory to the
agreements made over the prior two years between Chad, CAR, and the CEMAC
Commission and reflected in the signed FAs and MOU. In essence, the SITCOM
transaction would have jeopardized the integrity of the CAB concept of a seamless
regional network, specifically in terms of elements such as interconnection, security,
pricing, and quality of service.
35      Between May and September 2012, the Bank team liaised with the
Governments of Chad (and CAR) in order to meet the effectiveness conditions. A
management letter was sent in July 2012 to the government of Chad expressing concerns
regarding the incompatibility of the SITCOM transaction with the project design and the
Financing Agreement. The letter highlighted that the existing situation made it
impossible to meet the effectiveness condition related to the International CAB Network
and was contrary to the MOU already signed (another effectiveness condition). The letter
further reminded the government of the then-current effectiveness deadline of October 10
and suggested that, in order to restore the viability of the project legally and financially,
the government would have to formally renounce, withdraw, and/or modify relevant
elements of the SITCOM transaction. The letter was sent on July 5, 2012, with an
original deadline of July 20, 2012. A follow up mission was conducted in N’Djamena in
July 24 – 29, and the deadline was extended to July, 29. As of September 7, the Bank
had not received any response from Chad, and the task team sent a note to senior
management to (i) provide an update on the latest developments regarding progress
toward fulfillment of the effectiveness conditions and (ii) seek guidance on the way
forward. The team at that time was convinced that Chad (i) would not be able to meet the
effectiveness deadline for the Chad FA, which was initially set for October 10, 2012, and
(ii) would probably request an extension of the effectiveness date.
36      On October 5, 2012 the Government of Chad sent a letter informing the
Bank of its intention to cancel the SITCOM deal and to give its assets and functions
to the incumbent operator. The Bank then decided to grant an extension of the
effectiveness date for Chad’s FA from October 10 to December 15, 2012. This two-
month period was intended for Chad to unwind the SITCOM deal and meet the
effectiveness conditions. CAR also requested and received an extension of its FA
effectiveness date until December 15, 2012. The Bank supported both counterparts in
their efforts to meet this tight deadline: notably a mission with CAR and Chad
delegations was organized in Paris in October 2012.




                                             10
37    As of December 10, 2012, just 4 days before the deadline, the Bank team
recorded the following status of effectiveness conditions for Chad and CAR:

Effectiveness condition                     CHAD                                 CAR
Recruitment of a safeguards specialist      Met                                  Met
within the Project Coordination Units                Bank Non Objection                   Bank Non Objection
                                                      given Dec. 11, 2012                   given Dec. 3, 2012
Adoption of an updated PIM,                 Met                                  Met
satisfactory to the Association.                     Bank Non Objection                   Bank Non Objection
                                                      given Dec. 10, 2012                   given Nov. 14, 2012
Legal opinions that the legal agreements    Not met                              Met
have been duly authorized or ratified              FA adopted by national                 Legal opinion
                                                    Assembly Dec. 11,                       transmitted to the Bank
                                                    2012                                    August 3, 2012
                                                   Missing promulgation
                                                    by the head of state
                                                   Missing Legal Opinion
Chad has made the initial contribution of   Not met                              n.a.
counterpart funds into the Project                 Still waiting funds to
Account                                             withdrawn to Account
                                                    CBT : N° 37101855901
                                                    19

One of the regional/cross country effectiveness conditions (signature of MoU) was
met, but there was no chance that the second one (recruitment of the PPP) could be
fulfilled by December 15, 2012:


Effectiveness condition                     CHAD and CAR
Chad and CAR have signed a MoU              Met
describing the roles and responsibilities         MoU signed May, 24 2012
of Chad and CAR in implementing the
Project
CAR and Chad have established the           Not Met
legal structure for the installation and           Countries are still in the process to finalize the technical and
management of the International CAB                 legal bidding documentation pertaining to the recruitment and
Network in accordance with PPP                      establishment of the PPP structure
principles                                         It is estimated that seven (7) further months would be
                                                    required to fully complete the recruitment of an international
                                                    Special Purpose Vehicle to build and manage the
                                                    infrastructure and commercialize the capacity over the
                                                    network.



38      The Bank’s management agreed at that point that no further extensions of
the effectiveness deadline would be granted and both FAs would be allowed to lapse
at the deadline of December 15, 2012. The following strategy was adopted:
1.      A formal legal notification was sent on December 17 to both CAR and Chad in
which both credits/grants were declared cancelled due to failure to meet the effectiveness
conditions of their respective Financing Agreements.
2.      In parallel but separately, a letter was transmitted to each government to: (i)
acknowledge the efforts made to try to fulfill the effectiveness conditions, (ii) reiterate
the Bank’s willingness to carry on policy dialogue under the current CAB1A operation,
and (iii) express the Bank’s readiness to support an alternative connectivity plan without
any cross-border conditionalities.


                                                          11
3. Assessment of Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

39      During preparation: Bank performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory for
two reasons. One is the decision to deliver the project to the Board before it was “ready”,
with readiness defined as having the PPP deal in place. The other is the underestimation
of the risks to the project’s viability without the inclusion of Cameroon, namely (i) the
greater difficulty of attracting private investors to an inferior infrastructure scheme, (ii)
the leadership and morale vacuum left after Cameroon’s exit, and (iii) the loss of the
mitigating effect of Cameroon’s involvement on the risks posed by Chad’s and CAR’s
weak track records in project management. The Bank’s approach was influenced by the
imperative to commit IDA resources and overconfidence about the likelihood of the PPP
going ahead promptly, given that the investment bank appeared to be well advanced with
the PPP preparation.

40      During supervision: Bank performance in the 18 months between Board
approval and cancellation is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The Task Team was very pro-
active in following-up with the clients and liaising with Bank management and the CMU
during the very difficult process described above. An important number of missions were
carried out between March 2011 and December 2012, namely : February 2011, March
2011, May 2011, July 2011, September 2011, November 2011, December 2011, January
2012, March 2012, May 2012, July 2012, November 2012, December 2012.

4. Assessment of Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Chad

41      For the implementing agency (Ministry of Telecommunications): the Chad
Government’s performance is rated Highly Unsatisfactory. The Ministry of
Telecommunications negotiated (during Project preparation) and signed the SITCOM
deal (as outlined above) after Board approval in contradiction to the principles of the
CAB1B project and without informing the Bank or the CAR authorities. It is worth
noting in this regard that staff of the Ministry’s delegation at the CAB1B negotiations in
May 2011 left the Government afterwards to join the SITCOM company in July 2011.
After the cancellation of the CAB1B project, the PIU coordinator of the CAB1A project
was replaced by the same former staff of the Ministry and SITCOM.

42     For the PIU:       The PIU performance is rated Unsatisfactory. The PIU’s
experience managing CAB1A would have enabled it to launch much earlier the activities
necessary to meet the effectiveness conditions. Low capacity of the PIU, especially in
procurement and financial management, and turnover of key staff (the CAB project



                                             12
coordinator, procurement specialist, financial management specialist and internal audit
specialist left the PIU in 2012) hindered the preparation of CAB1B. Following Bank
supervision missions, recommendations were not implemented; e.g., the recruitment of an
international independent consultant to support the PIU has been pending for months and
actions pertaining to financial management and procurement were not carried out (see
letter of November 30, 2012).

CAR

43      For the implementing agency (Ministry of Post and Telecommunications):
the performance of the CAR government is rated Satisfactory. The government facilitated
meeting the effectiveness conditions that were within its control in a timely manner and
showed consistent proactivity. The government also took initiatives to discuss with their
Chadian counterparts ways to resolve the problems created by the SITCOM deal. The
highest authorities in CAR were also concerned about Chad’s sudden change of plans and
sent a delegation in December 2011 to meet with the Chad Government 4.

44     For the PIU:     The PIU’s performance is rated Satisfactory. Following the
signing of the Legal Agreements, the PIU launched the studies and consultations in a
timely manner and worked to meet the national effectiveness conditions prior to the
deadline.

Overall

45      Chad’s poor performance led to the cancellation of this operation. Although the
CAR Government showed strong commitment to making the project a success, the
political and governance issues faced by the project in Chad lead to an overall Borrower
Performance rating of MU.

5. Lessons Learned

46      De-linking countries: Although regional programs in general and CAB in
particular require close coordination between countries and the establishment of regional
implementation arrangements, differences in capacity can undermine the overall
program. In the case of CAB1B, the cross-referenced effectiveness conditions contributed
to preventing the project from becoming effective, as one of the countries involved did
not meet its conditions. If the CAR and Chad projects had been de-linked, at least the
CAR project could have started implementation without major delays. The coordination
necessary to ensure the physical interconnection of the regional infrastructure and the
international institutions to be put in place to manage the regional backbone could have
been designed and set up at a later stage, and, if necessary, re-designed to accommodate
changes, such as new backbone routes or new partners in the PPP. This flexibility would



4
    http://www.presidencetchad.org/affichage_news.php?id=189&titre=%20%20%20%20%20Lire%20article




                                                    13
not have affected the outcomes of the project. Although linked country arrangements
often enable better coordination, and usually reinforce regional integration early in
project implementation, they should be pursued only under certain conditions, for
example similar implementation capacity in all countries involved to prevent unbalanced
progress.

47      Project readiness: The Bank should avoid complex and numerous effectiveness
conditions by not sending a project to the Board until risks to implementation have been
minimized. In this case, the Bank should have recognized the increased risks associated
with the setting up of the PPP and allowed more time to establish CAB1B’s readiness
after the exit of Cameroon.

48     Risk evaluation and risk management: Evolution of the competitive landscape
between the ROC meeting in 2009 (CAB1A) and the eventual project effectiveness
deadline for CAB1B (December 2012) highlights the importance of adequately managing
risks. The deal between the Cameroon Government and Chinese EximBank that led to
the withdrawal of Cameroon from CAB1B occurred precisely as the team was trying to
meet one of the two original triggers established as a result of the initial split of CAB1.




                                            14
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                               Responsibility/
           Names                                 Title                 Unit
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending
Helene Bertaud                               Senior Counsel           LEGAM
Laurent Besancon                                Manager               WBIKE
Jerome Bezzina                        Senior Regulatory Economist     TWICT
Patrick Bongotha                               Consultant             AFMGA
Ningayo Charles Donang               Senior Procurement Specialist    AFTPW
Lancine Dosso                       Financial Management Specialist   AFTME
Sekou Keita                                    Consultant             AFTME
Kaoru Kimura                               Operations Analyst         TWICT
Marc Jean Yves Lixi                    Senior Operations Officer      TWICT
Lucienne M. M'Baipor                Senior Social Development Spec    AFTCS
Evelyne Huguette Madozein                    Team Assistant           AFMCF
Emeran Serge M. Menang
                                    Senior Environmental Specialist   AFTN3
Evouna
Kouami Hounsinou Messan              Senior Procurement Specialist    AFTPW
Deo Ndikumana                           Senior Country Officer        LCCHT
Sylvie Munchep Ndze                         Team Assistant            AFCC1
Maria Isabel A. S. Neto               Senior ICT Policy Specialist    TWICT
Michele Ralisoa Noro                   Senior Program Assistant       TWICT
David Satola                                 Lead Counsel             LEGPS
Haoussia Tchaoussala                    Procurement Specialist        AFTPW
Paulette C.E. Aida Thioun Zoua            Program Assistant           AFMTD
Meike van Ginneken                      Sector Manager, Energy        AFTG2
Supervision/NCO
Jerome Bezzina                        Senior Regulatory Economist     TWICT
Alan C. Carroll                           Operations Adviser          TWICT
Casey Torgusson                            Operations Officer         AFCRI
Marc Jean Yves Lixi                    Senior Operations Officer      TWICT
Michele Ralisoa Noro                    Senior Program Assistant      TWICT
Sylvie Munchep Ndze                          Team Assistant           AFCC1



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                             No. of staff weeks
                                                                    travel and consultant costs)
Lending                                              39.49                 280,761.70
                                 Total:              39.49                 280,761.70
Supervision/NCO                                      21.34                 267,264.98
                                 Total:              60.83                 548,026.68




                                                  15
16
