Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
LA). 2G6I- t
Repqti,u P-38&7-AL
RPT        RECAEAO
OF THE
PRIDE5T OF TE
3NTERNAIIONAL BAR FOR   CSTRUCON AMD DEVELOPFENT
TO THM
MEECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN ANDUNT EQUIVALENT TO US S290 KELLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR AN
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
June 12, 1984
This document bas a restricted distribution and 1y be usd by recipients only in the pefemane of
their official duties. Its cntefts mY not otherwise be disclosed withou World Dak authrizatio-



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$ 1.00 = DA 4.80
DA 1.00 = US$0.21
DA 1,000,000 -US$ 208,333
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS. ACRONYMS AND TERMS
USED IN THE REPORT
DGE       Direction Gi&mrale de 1'Exploitation
DGIH      Direction Ckn6rale des Infrastructures Hydrauliques
NDW       Direction de la Wilaya d'Alger Charg4e de 1'Hydraulique
EPEAL     Entreprise de Production, de Gestion et de Distribution
dEau d'Alger
mmZ 3Million cubic meters
MHEF       Ministere de 1'Hydraulique, de 1'Environmement et des Forets
SEDAL      Societe des Eaux de l'Agglomeration d'Alger
SNC        Societe Nationale de Comptabilite
SONADE     Societe Nationale de Distribution d'Eau Potable et
Industrielle
Wilaya     Local government area (comparable to a province)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:   Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Beneficiary: Entreprise de Production, de Gestion et de Distribution d'Eau
d-Alger - EPEAL_
Amount:      US$290_0 million equivalent including the capitalized front-end
fee
Terms:       15 years  including  three years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate
RelendinR
Terms:       EPEAL will reimburse the Government US$212_0 million equivalent
of the Bank loan, plus interest and other charges incurred by
the Government during construction, over a period of 25 years
including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate of 10%. The
remainder of the Bank loan will be made available to EPEAL as
an equity contribution. The Government will bear the foreign
exchange risk on the loan.
Proiect
Description: The project will help expand water production and distribution
in the Greater Algiers area to the level required to meet the
unsatisfied demand (currently representing 46% of production)
and future peak demand up to 1993. It will also help increase
the efficiency of the water distribution system in Greater
Algiers.   Assistance  will be provided to strengthen sector
planning and institutional development. The project will also
assist in further strengthening EPEAL's organization, accounts,
procedures  and  financial policies.   The project comprises:
construction of two dams, pumping facilities, a water treatment
plant and water conveyance systems; expansion and improvement
of the water distribution system of Greater Algiers; and
technical assistance and studies.  The project would benefit
abcut 3.5 million inhabitants of Greater Algiers, of which
about one-third are residents of low-income  districts,  and
would also supply water fcr industrial and commercial
development. The project faces no technical risks, although
its successful realization will depend on quick and efficient
procurement of the proposed works and on timely implementation
of  recommended  financial policies  for EPEAL.   These risks,
however, are reduced by the advanced status of the procurement
process and by the Government's comuitment, as expressed in the
recently issued Water Code. that water utilities be managed as
commercial and financially self-supporting enterprises.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official dutis Its contents may not otherwise be disosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii 
Estimated
Cost:                                             Local    Foreiga    Total
Item                             US$ Million
Raw Water Production                   116.4       87.7     204.1
Raw Water Pipelines                     22.2       33.4      55.6
Water Treatment Plant                   26.9       30.4      57.3
Treated Water Conveyance                26.5       39.7      66.2
Distribution Works                      63.4       67.5     130.9
Supply of Water Meters                   0.2        0.2       0.4
Leak Detection Program                   0.2        0.2       0.4
Detailed Design of Dams and
Construction Supervision               8.8        9.7      18.5
Technical Assistance to EPEAL            0.3        0.7       1.0
Technical Assistance to Government       0.4        0.9       1.3
Price Contingencies                     72.5       81.0     153.5
Sub-Total                        337.8     351.4      689.9
Physical Contingencies                  40.3       40.3      80.6
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan               -          0.7       0.7
Total Project Cost*    378.1      392.4     770.5
Financing
Plan:                                             Local    ForeiRn    Total
USS Million
Bank Loan                                -        290.0     290.0
Covernment                             310.3      102.4     412.7
EPEAL                                   67.8        -        67.8
Total                   378.1     392.4     770.5
Estimated
Disbursements:                                   us$ Million
Bank FY    1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Annual      3.2   21.9   39.1   72.4   63.3   43.4   34.4   12.3
Cumulative  3.2   25.1   64.2  136.6  199.9  243.3  277.7  290.0
Economic Rate of Return: 82
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5068-AL of June 11, 1984
* Includes US$231.2 million of taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON.STRUCT ION &ND DEVEL-PMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN IN AN
AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$290.0 MILLION TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR AN ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, for the equivalent of
US$290 million, including the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance an
Algiers regional water supply project. EPEAL will reimburse the Government
US$212.0 million equivalent of the Bank loan, plus interest and other
charges incurred by the Government during construction, over a period of 25
years including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate of 10%. The loan
would have a term of 15 years including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1'
2.       An economic mission visited Algeria in January 1981 to review the
Five Year Development P,an and a report entitled 'Algeria - The Five Year
Development Plan and the Medium Term Prospects 1980-84" (3668-AL) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in July 1982.   Updating was made
following  brief  staff  visits  in  1982 aqd  1983.   A  Country  Economic
Memorandum updating mission went to Algeria ini late March 1984.
Long term economic obiectives
3.       In 1966, Algeria's Revolutionary Council defined the fundamental
objectives which the country intended to pursue during the future decades.
They were reaffirmed in detail in the National Charter approved by
referendum in June 1976.  In brief, they are (i) to expand and organize the
production base, enabling the economy to reach a stage of self-sustained
growth with full employment; (ii) to achieve economic independence, which
implies that the country would rely first on its own resources for
development. although international economic relations would be expanded and
diversified; and (iii) to improve income distribution, particularly among
regions.   The  National  Charter  and  the  new  Constitution,  approved  in
November 1976, added the objective of economic democracy, meaning that
economic decentralization would be increased and that effective control over
investment plans and management of economic units would be vested in
workers' and peoples' assemblies. They also substantially strengthened the
national commitment to regional development.
1/ Part I is the same as in the Telecommunications Project (Report no.
P-3688 AL of November 30, 1933).



- 2 -
4.       Following the death of President Boumediene, a smooth transfer of
power and wider participation of political institutions characterized the
transition leading to the election of President Chadli Bendjedid and the
appointment of a new Government in March 1979. President Bendjedid was
reelected in January 1984 following the Fifth Party Congress of the FLN.
The President and the new Government have reaffirmed their commitment to the
basic principles of Algeria's long-term development objectives and to the
implementation of the National Charter. Emphasis has been placed on
satisfying the basic material and social needs of the population, in
particular housing, education and training.
Medium term development strategies
5.       The main elements of Algerian development strategy continue to be
the establishment of a diversified and integrated industrial base, expansion
of agricultural output towards self sufficiency, and increased efficiency in
production and distribution. After the 1974-77 Plan Period, the Government
decided that 1978 and 1979 would be transitional years devoted to the
completion of on-going projects and programs, and to the preparation of a
new Plan, covering the period 1980-84.
6.       The Five Year Plan was approved by the Nationol Popular Assembly in
November 1980 following a long review process within the country's various
political and social institutions.   Investment was to be reoriented toward
the  social  sectors,  especially  housing.   Development  of  education  and
training, economic infrastructure and regional development were to be
stepped up. Agriculture and water development received special attention. On
the other hand, investment in the industrial sectors was to be slowed down.
The Plan provided for completion of ongoing industrial projects and gave
priority to new projects that establish linkages between existing industries
and that eliminate the constraints on optimum utilization of production
capacities.   Emphasis  was  placed  on  light  industries  and  small  and
medium-scale enterprises, in order to expand and strengthen the country's
industrial base.
7.       The priority given to hydrocarbon development as a means of raising
financial resources is maintained in the 1980-84 Plan. However, a policy
for moderating the long-term rate of exploitation of oil and gas resources
was introduced in the Plan. This conservation policy, which aims at
maintaining the long run growth in export volumes, and thus of import
capacity, was expected to allow Algeria to avoid long run balance of
payments difficulties that would have reappeared after 1990 if the original
program providing for rapid exploitation of hydrocarbon resources had been
maintained.
8.       Economic  decentralization  was  to  be  pursued,  and  important
structural reforms were to be intr'-duced, relating in particular to the
organization and management of agriculture, industry and the financial
system. Special emphasis was put on measures aimed at improving the
efficiency of the economic system and of financial management in general.
After a decade of high levels of investment and austerity in consumption, a
path combining increased consumption and improved quality of life with
rationalized investment and more effective utilization of capital and
technology, was to be followed.



Implementation of past and current plans
9.       The  evoluticn  of  the  Algerian  economy  during  the  1970-73 and
1974-77 Plan periods was characterized by strong investment growth, a high
savings rate, substantial growth in indust-y and construction and high
employment  creation.   The  GDP  grew  at  an  annual  rate  of  9  and  7%
respectively during the two Plan periods. However, the implementation of
the two Plans, which emphasized capital intensive investmenr. in industry,
generated imbalances between the very high level of investment (an average
of 37 and 50% of GDP for the two Plan periods) and Algeria's growing but
limited financial and human resources. This led to pressures on external and
domestic financial resources (the resource gap increased from 7 to 12% of
GDP between 1970 and 1977), and to widening development lags in non-
industrial sectors. Moreover, the marginal efficiency of capital has tended
to fall from one plan to the next, particularly in the non-hydrocarbon
industry where  investment  efforts  were  the  most  substantial.   External
capital requirements increased, and large borrowings abroad caused a steep
rise in debt and debt service obligations. The overall Government budget,
including   investment   expenditures   and   capital   transfers   to  public
enterprises, showed large deficits (7% of GDP at the end of 1977), and
credit to the economy increased rapidly.
10.      While developments in 1978 and in 1979 were in many ways similar to
those of 1974-77, they also anticipated the strategy and objectives of the
1980-84 Plan. Real growth of GDP was propelled by an acceleration of growth
in non-hydrocarbon sectors, especially industry and construction, and by
increases in output in hydrocarbons and agriculture. Although low capacity
utilization continued to plague many plants, relative improvements in
operating levels of existing plants and start-up of new plants allowed
growth   of   industrial   output   to   accelerate.    Appropriations   in
non-hydrocarbon industry were restrained to allow only the completion of
projects undertaken under the previous Plans.  Nevertheless, total planned
investment   increased   substantially   in  1978,  in  particular  for  gas
development and the country's total fixed capital formation exceeded 48% of
GDP. Total imports also increased substantially in spite of restrictions on
items other than capital goods, while the increase in the current value of
exports was limited, as Algerian oil prices diminished in the first half of
1978.  Thus, the current account deficit widened  to $3.5 billion (14% of
GDP), involving high new loan commitments and disbursements ($4.7 billion).
11.      In 1979, the average export price of Algerian crude oil rose 54%
above the average price for 1978. This, combined with rising gas exports,
brought substantial additional financial resources. On the other hand, for
the first time, investment in industry fell in real terms, while budget
appropriations were increased for investment in housing, agriculture and
irrigation, distribution, and economic infrastructure.   With the increased
revenue from the hydrocarbon sector, restraint on industrial investment and
further limitations on imports, the current account deficit was reduced to
$1.6 billion (5% of GDP). Algeria continued, nonetheless, to borrow heavily
from commercial sources in 1979 to help finance its investment program for



- 4 -
hydrocarbon development, especially gas. External debt service sharply
increased, to $2.7 billion from $1.5 billion in 1978.  In spite of the large
increases in hydrocarbon export revenues, the debt service ratio increased,
from 21.6% in 1978 to 26.6% in 1979.
12.      During 1980. rapid growth was maintained in the non-hydrocarbon
sectors, especially in industry. As a result of a recovery in investment
associated with the introduction of the new Plan, and of relaxing the
restraints on private consumption in the context of the new social
orientations,  domestic  demand  increased  substantially.   Moreover,   the
Government introduced programs aiming at easing enterprise input supply and
eliminating shortages in a number of consumer goods and foodstuffs. Despite
the resulting steep increase in imports, the external finance situation
further improved in 1980 thanks mainly to a 68% increase in the average
price of crude oil.  Although there were interruptions in gas deliveries
during the year, total hydrocarbon export revenue rose to US$13.4 billion
from US$9.5 billion in 1979. The current account was almost in equilibrium
and the external debt service dropped to about 25% of exports.
13.      With about 98% of its merchandise exports composed of hydrocarbons,
the Algerian economy is heavily influenced by the developments in the oil
and gas markets. In 1981 and 1982, its continued diversification of exports
towards refined product=, condensate and natural gas, and the successful
renegotiation of gas contracts with several European countries have eased
the effects of the oil glut on its external revenue position. In addition,
the softening of oil prices and lower oil exports were associated with
import cut backs and limitations on the growth of domestic expenditure,
particularly of investment; in 1981-1982 fixed investment increased at about
3.7% in real terms, a lower rate than the expected average of 7.3 in the
1980-84 Plan.   Thus, external debt was actually reduced by $1.3 billion
between 1980 and 1982, although debt service rose to 29.5% of exports as
these  latter dropped  in value.   The  GDP  growth  performance,  excluding
hydrocarbons, remained at a relatively high 8% annual average in the period
1980-82, as capacity utilization improved. Overall, GDP growth is estimated
at an average of 5.3% p.a.  in 1980-82.   Growth of Treasury revenues in
1981-82 slowed down as a result of oil price decline, but current
expenditures   continued   to   show   large   increases,   reflecting   the
implementation of the social programs included in the 1980-84 Plan.
However, Algeria has been able to limit the size of the overall budget
deficit, as capital expenditures growth was lower than planned.
14.      In line with the objectives of the 1980-84 Plan, and long term
objectives, major reforms have been carried out in the last two years. They
include a reorganization of Ministries of Planning and Finance;   regional
and sectoral decentralization, as well as financial restructuring of the
public enterprise and the socialist agriculture; a guided development of the
private sector in agriculture and small scale industry, through new
selective credit and fiscal policies; and a vigorous program of house
construction  with foreign contractors.  A national  agricultural bank was
also created. It is still too soon to ascertain the impact of these reforms
on development prospects for the economy.



Social development
15.      During  the  implementation  of  past  and  current  Plans,  social
development continued rapidly, favoring particularly the most disadvantaged
groups. Policy measures which contribute to raising the living standards of
those groups have included increases in the guaranteed minimum wage, free
education and health services, increases in producer prices for agricultural
a          products and subsidies on basic commodities.  Large salary increases were
granted by the Government in 1978 and 1980, and the minimum agricultural
wage was  raised  to  the level  of  the  minimum  wage  in  industry.   The
disadvantaged  groups  have also beneFited from the implementation of the
agrarian reforms, the creation of non-agricultural employment in the less
developed regions, (multiplication of small and medium-scale enterprises at
the regional and local levels), construction of public housing and rapid
development of free health care, education, training and other social
services.   Overall,  Government  current  and capital  expenditure  directly
affecting social development increased to 52X of total direct Government
expenditure in 1982 (from 50Z in 1977, and 45X in 1973).
16.      According to the last 1977 Census, Algeria's resident population
was 17.1 million at tne end of 1977, and 1 million Algerians were living
abroad, mainly in Europe. Between 1966 and 1977, annual population growth
was estimated at 3.21, and the urban population increased from 31Z to 411 of
the total resident population. Some 57X of the population is now under 20
years of age.   Together with a 6% rate of urban growth, this factor is
causing an extremely rapid increase in the demand for housing, social
services, urban facilities and employmen:.  More than half a million jobs
were created in industry and services during the 1974-77 Plan and the rate
of unemployment in non-agricultural sectors was reduced to about 181 in 1977
and 14Z in 1981.  Considerable efforts to create employment will still be
needed in coming years, however, to cope with existing unemployment and
underemployment and absorb  the additional  labor  force.   Another  problem
facing Algeria  is the shortage of skilled labor in many sectors.   This
shortage is likely to persist for many years in spite of considerable
training efforts.
Medium-term prospects
17.      Algeria's  economic and financial prospects depend on three main
factors: the levei of hydrocarbon export revenues; the level and sectoral
composition of the country's investment; and the pace of improvement in the
efficiency of the economic system. Bank staff projections take into account
the policy framework for conservation of hydrocarbon resources, which has
been introduced by Algeria in 1980 and confirmed in the 1980-84 PlanL.
1/ The projections of oil exports are consistent with the current produc-
tion quota of 725 thousand bl/day allotted to Algeria in the OPEC agree-
ment of March 1983.



With a view to maintaining a long term growth in hydrocarbon export volumes
and ensuring the energy supply of the country, the policy objective consists
of simultaneously establishing the appropriate levels of hydrocarbon exports
and external borrowing for balancing financing needs, while reducing
moderately the debt burden from its current level. In this context, it is
projected that Algeria would maintain an overall GDP growth rate of about
5.7%  during  1983-85,  based  on  a  relatively  rapid  growth  of  the
non-hydrocarbon  industry  (about 8%).  During 1986-1990, GDP growth would
remain relatively rapid in non hydrocarbon sectors. Within the constraints
of the policy framework, and assuming further improvements in efficiency of
capital, investment would grow by about 4.3% a year in real terms during
1983-85 and decelerate further in 1986-90. The ratio of investment to GDP
at constant prices would then decline to 40% in 1982 and 32% in 1990. This
would allow consumption to grow rapidly, especially in the second half of
the 1980s, at rates close to the ones observed in the 1970s (see Annex I,
p.4).
18.      The projections are strongly influenced by the assumption on oil
and gas prices. The long term growth of Algeria's crude oil prices is based
on the assumption of a slightly positive price growth in real terms from the
1983 level of about  $3G  per  barrel,  in  accordance  with  current  Bank
forecasts.   It  also  includes  a  progressive  recovery  of  past  price
differentials relative to heavier crudes.  The gas price projections reflect
the gains obtained in recent negotiations towards alignment with the price
of oil. Based on these price assumptions and on export volumes consistent
with the conservation policy, Algeria's external financing needs would
average US$4 billion per year for the medium-term 84-86, on a commitment
basis, equal to average commitments during 1975-1980. The financing needs
could probably be met mostly by suppliers and buyers credits linked to
future projects, and by some official credits.  During the second half of
the 1980s, when gas export volumes would become important, projections
indicate that the balance of payments deficit would decline somewhat.
19.      The growth prospects of the Algerian economy would be substantially
different if Algeria's oil and gas prices were to remain constant in real
terms over the rest of the decade.  In order to prevent excessive current
balance of payments deficits and keep a debt service level close to the one
of  the  previous  scenario,  imports  growth  would  have  to  be  reduced.
Consequently, instead of growing at an average of 5.7% in 1983-85 and 6.1%
in 1986-90, GDP would increase by an average of only 4.6% and 5.0%
respectively, leaving little growth of GNP per capita.   This alternative
scenario shows the degree of sensitivity of Algeria's economic growth to oil
and gas revenues prospects, if constraints concerning the size of balance of
payments deficits and external debt are not to be relaxed.  It confirms the
long term necessity, already perceived by the Algerian authorities, to
diversify exports growth towards other products than oil and gas and their
derivatives, and to persist in the efforts to raise efficiency of investment
in industry and agriculture.



-7-
External debt
20.      At the end of 1982, Algeria's total external debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated at US$13.7 billion (US$18.3 billion including
undisbursed) equivalent to 29.42 of GDP. The debt service ratio increased
from 13S in 1974 to nearly 23.7% in 1981. Due to the significant decline of
oil prices, it increased further to about 29.5% in 1982.  It is expected to
decline to approximately 22Z by 1985. At the end of 1982, the portion of
Algeria's total debt outstanding and disbursed owed to the Bank was 2.4X.
Based on total external borrowing (commitments and disbursements) projected
above,  this  share would remain below 5Z over the medium term.   Algeria
remains creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA1'
21.      The  Bank  has  made   twenty-six   loans   to  Algeria   totaling
$1,329 million. After three early loans (two before Independence) there was
an interval of about nine years when the Bank had no on-going projects in
Algeria. Lending resumed in FY73, and in the period June 1973 to July 1980
twenty-two loans totaling $1,120.5 million were approved. The bulk of these
loans were in the sectors of education (focussed on meeting the demand for
skilled manpower) and infrastructure (highways, railway, ports, water supply
and sewerage, and power), where Bank lending aimed at solving development
bottlenecks  in  lagging  sectors.   There were  in  addition  two  loans  to
industry (one for industrial finance, and the other for cement); two in
agriculture (for irrigation and meat production); and a technical assistance
loan for rural development.   No new loans were made from mid-1980 until
December 1983 when a loan for a telecommunications project was approved by
the Executive Directors.   Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans as of March 31, 1984. As a result of the restructuring of the Bank's
portfolio in Algeria mentioned in paragraph 24 below, the current principal
as of March 31, 1984 was about $902 million.
22.      Our economic and sector work dialogue with the Government led to a
basic economic report in 1966, and several studies on economic development
and prospects in the 1970s, complemented by sectoral analyses in agriculture
and industry.  This was followed most recently by a study of enterprise
financing and the banking system in 1980, and a review of the current
development plan, initiated the same year.   An updating Country Economic
Memorandum is planned for this year. Future economic work is likely to be
focussed on an assessment of medium term prospects, and their implications
for overall economic management.
23.      From 1980, Algerian  authorities  and  the  Bank were  increasingly
concerned by the low rate of disbursements on Bank loans resulting from
pervasive problems affecting project implementation.  Disbursement rates-'
1/  Part II is essentially the same as in the Telecommunications Project
(Report no. P-3688 AL of November 30, 1983).
2/ Disbursement rates are defined as total amounts disbursed during a
fiscal year divided by total undisbursed amounts at the beginning of the
same fiscal year.



- 8 -
on loans to Algeria declined steadily from about 20Z in FY76 to a low of
5.3% in FY80, and were substantially below Regional and Bank-wide averages.
Procurement-related issues, the slow pace of contract approval and award,
and delays in critical decisions (eg. on the construction of the steel
complex which was crucial for the economic justification of the Jijel port
project) were the principal reasons for slow project implementation.
24.      In  the  last  three years  there  has  therefore  been  emphasis  on
improving  project  implementation  and  disbursement  performance.   At  the
Annual Meetings in 1980 and 1981, and in other high-level contacts
(particularly two Country Implementation Reviews in November 1981, and
June 1982), agreement was reached to improve project performance through
specific measures, monitoring and follow-up, and cancellation by mutual
agreement of projects and project components where it did not appear likely
that  progress  or  resolution  would  be  forthcoming  soon.    Following
cancellations  of  about  $262 million  in  FY80,  81  and 82,  and  about
$156 million in FY84, the Bank's portfolio in Algeria was trimmed to
10 projects.   Progress on the remaining projects continues to be monitored
closely. Disbursements in the highways and sewerage sectors have started to
accelerate as major contracts begin execution.
25.      In  the  course  of discussion of the existing portfolio,  it was
agreed with the Government that: i) project preparation should focus on
resolving major project and sector issues (such as procurement and financial
policy objectives) at an early stage of the project cycle; ii) to avoid
delays in project start-up particular care should be taken to ensure that
projects are submitted for Bank financing only after key actions necessary
for prompt initiation of project execution have been taken; and iii) project
preparation should be concentrated in sectors where there are no major
policy obstacles, and where there is full commitment to Bank standards and
procedures.   With the adoption of these principles,  preparation work  on
several projects was discontinued.   It has also been agreed that future
lending would for the time being be focussed on infrastructure projects
(telecommunications, water supply, transport, and power). These operations
would be useful vehicles for improving public enterprise efficiency, with
the Bank playing a role in reinforcing analytical rigor, institution
building, and development planning.  In particular, water supply represents
a sector in which investments have lagged relative to other sectors.
Additional water supply projects in the cities of Constantine and Oran are
under preparation.  A port project to meet the growing demands of general
cargo traffic in the eastern part of the country has recently been
appraised. A proposed highways project is expected to address the question
of bottlenecks on important transport corridors, as well as to strengthen
institutional capacity.   A possible third power project could comprise a
time-slice of the SONELGAZ investment program.
26.      The  provision  of  technical  assistance  and  institution-building
support is a major objective of the Bank's strategy in Algeria, to which the
Government attaches special importance. The aim is to assist the Government
in improving economic, sector and financial management, as well as project



- 9 -
preparation and implementation. These factors have been prominent in the
Bank's  economic  dialogue  with  the  Government.   Previous  projects  have
included technical assistance to enhance the appraisal capability of the
Algerian Development Bank and improve auditing of national companies.
Technical assistance in institutional and financial policies was a major
feature of the Algiers Sewerage Project (Loan 1545-AL). Under dhe fifth
education project (Loan. 1803-AL) technical assistance is proposed in the
areas of vocational training and apprenticeship.  Technical as.istance would
equally be a major feature of the present project, and would be directed
mainly to strengthening planning, institutional development and financial
policies in the water supply and sewerage sector as well as  improving
project implementation and management.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Background
27.      The national water supply situation.  Water resources in Algeria
are generally limited and difficult to exploit. Rainfall is unevenly
distributed over the seasons, as are water resources among the regions. Over
95% of the population (currently estimated at 21.0 million) lives north of
the Saharan Atlas. Over half of this population lives in urban areas, the
largest and most important of these is Algiers, with a population estimated
at 2.1 million. Most of the Lural population resides in fixed settlements
which need to be equipped with water supply and sanitation facilities.
28.      The scarcity of water and the need for substantial investments in
water production and supply facilities are underlined by the growing
pressure if population (increasing at 3.2% annually nation-wide and at over
5% annually in the main urban concentrations), ani by the rapid growth of
industry.  Groundwater  represents  over  two-thirds  of  available  water
resources in Algeria and is used to supply a majority of cities, including
Algiers.   However,  overpumping  of  the aquifer  in the Algiers area  is
lowering the water table, and could lead to degradation of the quality of
the water: surface water sources must be developed to meet rising demand.
29.      In most cities water supply and sewerage systems are obsolete and
inadequate; water supply is intermittent and about one-half of the water
produced is not accounted for. While over 80Z of the urban population is
provided with direct water service lines, only a third of this population
can be considered well served. About 70% of the urban population is
connected to public sever networks, most of which are coubined systems
evacuating also storm water runoff. Wastewaters in cities are discharged



- 10 -
untreated into the sea or rivers, creating environmental pollution and
posing health hazards. About 40 of the rural population has direct access
to public water supply networks, and only 25% to severage.
30.      Water supply in the project area-  Greater Algiers comprises the
city of Algiers and ten commues stretching along the Pediterranean coast
from the Sahel Hills to the Nitidja Plain, which together account for about
99% of the urban population of 2.2 million in the Wilava (province) of
Algiers. The mean annual rainfall in Greater Algiers varies between 580 and
760 Pkl, most of it occuring in the months October through March.  Rugged
terrain and the lack of convenient sites for service reservoirs in flatter
areas make the installation and operation of a public water supply system
very costly.
31.      Practically all potable water in the Wilaya of Algiers comes from
some 145 wells in the Sahel and Mitidja plains, incorporated into 12 main
well fields, owned and managed by EPEAL (see para. 39). As a result of
overexploitation of the groundwater aquifer, production of existing wells
has been decreasing, leading to an increase in the number of wells and the
installation of more powerful pumping equipment. Water from all the well
fields is of good quality, requiring only normal disinfection. Most of the
production of the three main well fields is conveyed to a central pumping
station at El Harrach, from which water is boosted to the elevated areas of
Greater Algiers; water produced in the other well fields is consumed locally.
32.      The conveyance  system  includes eight major pipelines  and  four
pumping stations apart from the well pumps. The existing conveyance system
is generally in good condition. The water distribution system is complex,
old, expensive to operate, and overloaded; high ground elevations make it
necessary to boost pressures in the distribution network. Available service
storage  in  the  network  is  considered  adequate.   The  existing  water
distribution network needs restructuring and expansion, as well as a leak
detection and repair program to reduce water losses in the network, which
amount to 14% of production.
33_      Current available water production in the Wilaya of Algiers  is
estimated at about 150 Ma3 annually, about 46% below estimated demand.
Present per capita consumption and sale of water in the Wilaya of Algiers
are very low. About 75% of water consumption is for domestic and public
uses; about 20% of the total consumption is by the industrial sector.
Almost 38Z of water produced is not accounted for. Until the completion of
the proposed project, the gap between production and demand will remain
undiminished. No further production increase is foreseen until the end of
1989 when the present project will be completed, while demand is projected
to increase at an average annual rate of 5%, with the growth of population
and increased consumption per capita, due to improved economic conditions.
Constraints to sector development
34.      Until recently, the lack of sound financial policies, the delays in
decision-making at the Ministry level, and the lack of qualified and
experienced engineering and administrative staff were the main constraints



- 11 -
to sector development. In general, water tariffs have remained low over the
last decade because of the reluctance of municipalities to implement
effective tariffs, and because past investments in water supply and sewerage
facilities were financed by Government grants. Administrative delays have
been particularly conspicuous in the application of procurement procedures
and have led to cost overruns in some projects. The shortage of competent
staff was accentuated by weak and fragmented sector organization.
Investments in the sector were carried out directly by the Ministry of
Hydraulics, Environment and Forestry (MHEF). Water production facilities
were primarily operated by a separate (but relatively weak) agency of the
-           MHEF, SONADE, while water distribution and sewerage operations, including
SEDAL, were under the control of provincial or municipal authorities.
35.      These constraints, however, are now being mitigated by  the new
sector organization, in which operational responsibility has been given to
the regional companies (see paras. 38-41). A new Water Code (see para_ 40)
has also cleared the way for the implementation of more acceptable financial
policies. Delays in procurement should be lessened by revised regulations,
which  the  Government  introduced  in  1983.  Staff  constraints  would  be
lessened through the graduation of more engineers and managers from
technical schools, such as the training school created under the Algiers
Sewerage Project.
36.      It is estimated that during the Five-Year Plan (1980-1984), a total
investment of $1.3 billion (DA 6.0 billion) would be made in the sector.
During the forthcoming plan (1985-1989), the MHEF is proposing to invest
$4.7 billion (DA 22.5 billion) in the sector, a fourfold increase (in
current terms) over the investments of the preceding Plan which translates
the Government's strong commitment to improving quickly the conditions and
service levels in the sector. Given the experience of the previous Plans,
however, when less than 50X of the funds allocated for the sector were
actually used, investment levels are likely to be substantially less than
the Plan figures.
37.      The MEEF is planning to carry out a study of the water supply and
sewerage sector to determine the service levels and constraints to sector
development.  Under the project, technical assistance will be provided to
*           the MHEF for the sector study for which consultants would be employed, with
qualifications, conditions and terms of employment satisfactory to the Bank,
not later than July 1, 1985 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03 (a)(ii))_ Terms
of reference for the sector study were agreed during negotiations.
Sector organization
38.      The  Ministry  of  Hydraulics,  Environment  and  Forestry  (MHEF)
(established in 1977, incorporating the former Secretariat of Hydraulics) is
responsible for the development and conservation of the country's water
resources and the planning and construction of water supply and sewer
systems.   Thirteen  regional  companies, created in May 1983, operate and
maintain water supply and sewerage facilities in large urban areas; in the



- 12 -
rest  of  the  country,  municipal  authorities  are  responsible  for water
production and distribution and sewerage collection. The regional companies
were set up on the model of a wilaya (provincial) authority in Algiers, the
Societe  des  Eaux  de  l'Agglomeration  d'Alger,-  (SEDAL),  which  was
established under the provincial governorate through the Algiers Sewerage
Project to manage water supply and sewerage services in Greater Algiers,
with  the objective of strengthening the sector organization.  SEDAL was
transformed into a regional authority under the name, "Entreprise de
Production, de Gestion et de Distribution d'Eau d'Alger" (EPEAL) in May
1983, now solely under the supervision of the MHEF.
39.      EPEAL is a publicly-owned, financially autonomous enterprise under
the administrative control of the MHEF. The MHEF approves its investment
program and annual budgets, annual accounts and decisions regarding
borrowing and tariffs. The General Director is assisted by a division for
organization and data processing and another for legal matters. There are
six  operational   departments:   water  operations,  sewerage  operations,
administraticn, finance, conercial matters and engineering studies, and new
works.   Its  organizational  structure and  functional  assignments  of  the
departments as well as systems and procedures for inventory control,
billing, collection, and accounting were examined as part of the Algiers
Sewerage Project and the recommEended reforms are gradually being implemented
(see para. 44). EPEAL's staff totals 1,200, a ratio of 59 employees per
10,000  people  served.  This  is considered adequate and  is  expected  to
further  improve by  the end of the project.  Training of technical and
financial staff, both through fellowships and at a special training center
established under the Algiers Sewerage Project, is expected to reinforce
EPEAL's managerial capacity significantly by the end of 1987.
40.      In conjunction with the creation of the regional authorities, the
Government has issued a Water Code in July 1983, to regulate the allocation
and collection of water resources and to set out financial policies for the
sector. In addition to dealing with ownership, concession and use of water
resources, the Code states the principle that water utilities be managed as
conmmercial enterprises and implement the tariffs necessary to make them
financially  self-supporting.   It  further  recommends  that  tariffs  for
industrial and commercial consumption should be set sufficiently high to
encourage economic use of water.
41.      To coordinate the operations of the regional authorities, the MHEF
is considering the establishment of a national agency, which would
coordinate, regulate and oversee the investments and operations of the
regional authorities, including possible cross subsidization, and plan the
further  institutional  development  of  the  sector.   Under  the  project,
consultant services would be provided to assist the MUEF in definirg the
functions of such an agency and preparing a detailed work agenda for it.
Terms   of   reference   for  the  consultants  were  agreed  upon  during
negotiations. The consultants, whose qualifications, terms and conditions
of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank, would be employed no later
than January 1, 1986 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03 (a)(iii)).



- 13 -
Previous Bank lending and sector objectives
42.      Two Bank loans have been provided so far in the sector. The first
loan for $82 million (Loan no. 1545-AL) in FY78 was fnr the Algiers Sewerage
Project, to finance the construction of combined sever interceptors, the
first stage of a sewage treatment plant, and technical assistance to SEDAL.
The project was designed to help the Government reduce -eater pollution and
associated health hazards in Algiers, to permit reuse of treated sewage in
irrigation or recharge of the aquifer thus reducing the need for investments
in water supply, and to assist the Government in the reorganization of the
administration and management of the sector as  regards Algiers.  Studies
proposed under the project for Oran and Constantine were planned to assist
the Government ir the formulation of investment planning and decision-mak;ng
procedures-
43.      After serious initial delays,  the execution of the sewerage works
is now progressing well. Disbursements had risen to $11.3 million as of
April 1984 and the majority of contracts have now been signed. Delays were
due to various causes such as: failure to include the project in the
national budget, delays in the review and approval of bidding documents and
consultant contracts, and rethinking of basic project scope and design-
Such delays should not occur for the proposed project, which has already
been approved by the Government and Eor which bidding is at a very advanced
stage. The studies in Constantine were completed and a construction project
defined for the city- The studies in Oran are now under way. The closing
date of Loan 1545-AL was extended for a year to December 31, 1984 and would
have to be extended by an additional three years to allow full disbursement
of the loan.
44.      EPEAL  has  started  to  implement  recommendations  concerning  the
organization and procedures of the studies financed under the project, which
were  completed  in  1981.   Some  problems  with  the accounts, particularly
receivables, inherited from predecessor agencies, remain. EPEAL is in the
process of acquiring computer equipment for the computerization of billing
and collection, accounting and stocks, which should facilitate management.
It has also completed its takeover of major sewerage facilities in Algiers
City, and will complete the takeover of all sewerage operations by 1987.
Overall, the SEDAL experience has been positive, as evidenced by the recent
creation of additional regional companies.
45.      The second Bank loan in the sector, for $5 million, under the Water
Supply Engineering Project (Loan no. S-17-AL), was made in FY80 to finance
the carrying out of studies to assess urban, industrial and agricultural
water requirements in Greater Algiers and surrounding areas, the design of
new water production facilities for the Greater Algiers metropolitan area,
and the preparation of a master plan for potable water distribution in
Greater Algiers. The studies are now completed and have been used to define
the proposed project. The loan would be closed at the end of 1984.
46.      The  Bank's  role  in  the sector  is  to assist the Government  in
strengthening its project planning and implementation capacity and in
establishing a strong institutional framework, with support for sector



- 14 -
policy formulation. The association with the Bank is expected to enhance
the standing of the new regional authorities, strengthen their independer-e.
and help assure the implementation of appropriate financial policies.
Reasons for implementation delays in on-going projects have been analyzed,
and agreement has been reached with the Government on measures to improve
project implementation and disbursement performance.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
47.      The project was prepared by the MHEF and is based on the studies
financed under the Water Supply Engineering Project (Loan no. S-17-AL). It
was originally appraised in June 1981. Further processing of a loan for the
project, however, was stopped, awaiting the Government's approval of revised
financial  performance  objectives  for  SEDAL,  the  then  proposed  loan
beneficiary. and substantial progress in the implementation of the Algiers
Sewerage Project. These issues were resolved and the appraisal was updated
in March 1984. Negotiations took place in Washington on June 1. 1984. The
Algerian delegation was led by Mr. Oualitsene of the Ministry of Finance. A
Staff Appraisal Report entitled 'Algiers Regional Water Supply Project"
(No.5068-AL, dated June 11, 1984) is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III; a Loan and Project
Summary is provided at the beginning of the report, and Maps no. IBRD 16088
and IBRD 16089R (attached) display the location of project activities.
Project Objectives
48.      The project will help expand water production and distribution in
the Greater Algiers area to the level required to meet the unsatisfied
demand and future peak demand up to 1993. It will also help increase the
efficiency of the water distribution system in Greater Algiers. Assistance
will  be  provided  to  strengthen  sector  planning  and   institutional
development. The project will also assist in further strengthening EPEAL's
organization, accounts, procedures and financial policies.
Project Description
49.      The project comprises:
Part A:
(i)    the design construction and equipping of a  160 Mm3 impounding
dam-reservoir (the Keddara Dam) on Oued Boudouaou, to store water
from three oueds (Isser, Boudouaou, and Hamiz), and of a tunnel
(the Hamiz Conveyance Tunnel) to transfer excess waters from the
existing Hamiz Reservoir to the Keddara Reservoir;



- 15 -
(ii)    the design and construction of a diversion dam on Oued Isser, of
pumping facilities, and a conveyance main, including two tunnels to
divert water of Oued Isser to the Keddara Reservoir;
(iii)    the design and construction of a water treatment plant at Boudouaou
with an initial capacity of 450,000m3/day;
(iv)    the  installation of a transmission pipeline between the Keddara
reservoir and the Boudouaou treatment plant;
(v)    the installation of a transmission system to convey treated water
to Greater Algiers;
(vi)    improvements  of  the  distribution  network  in  Greater Algiers,
including two primary distribution mains and the construction of
three reservoirs and related pumping stations; and
(vii)    technical assistance to the MHEF for a study of sector trends,
constraints and service requirements as well as a study of the
feasibility and proposed work program for a national agency for the
regulation and supervision of regional water supply and sewerage
authorities.
Part B:
(i)    the supply and installation of master and domestic water meters in
Greater Algiers;
(ii)    a leak detection and repair program aimed at reducing unaccounted
water; and
(iii)    technical  assistance  for the development and  implementation of
improved managerial and financial structures and procedures for
EPEAL.
50.      The Keddara Dam would be a rock embaniment, with a central core of
clay, a height of 108 m at its peak, and a length of 486 m at its crest.
The Keddara Reservoir would submerge a 9 km stretch of a highway and a 7 km
length of a high voltage electric line, which would be relocated. Like the
Keddara Dam, the diversion structure on Oued Isser would be a rock-fill dam
with an impervious core. Necessary relocation of human settlements affected
by  the  two dams which was minimal, has already been carried out.  The
treatment plant would include standard processes, such as sedimentation,
filtration  and  disinfection.   The  new  production  facilities  would  be
connected to the existing El Harrach pumping station, from where water would
be conveyed to the service reservoirs through existing transmission mains
and two new pipelines.  Since water produced in the new facilities will
reach Greater Algiers from the east, it would first serve the eastern part
of Greater Algiers, where most current urban development is taking place.



- 16 -
51.      The installation of water meters and a leak detection and repair
program would contribute to a more efficient management of the water supply
and distribution system.  This is especially urgent given the amount of
water (about 17 M&3 annually) lost through leaks, which could be
recovered. An action plan to reduce water losses from the present level of
about 38S of water production to no more than 30X by 1990, was agreed during
negotiations (Loan Agreement, Section 2.11).
Project Implementation
52.      The  MHEF,   and  in  particular   its  "Direction  Generale   des
Infrastructures Hyrauliques' (DGIH) would be responsible for supervision of
project construction. DGIH is well organized and staffed, and is currently
managed by a competent Chief Engineer. Sixty-four foreign advisors provide
technical assistance to the MHEF. A team of nine civil engineers and thirty
technicians has been assigned for the construction supervision of the
Keddara Dam and the Hamiz Tunnel. A similar but larger team would be
created to supervise the implementation of the other works. The design of
the two dams and the Hamiz tunnel has been reviewed by a panel of qualified
engineers within the MHEF.  This panel, acceptable to the Bank, would be
maintained throughout the construction period (Loan Agreement, Section
3.08(a)). Because of the importance of the works and the expertise required
for their proper execution, MHEF would be assisted by engineering
consultants, who would be employed no later than January 1, 1985, with
qualifications,  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.03 (a)(i)).
53.      The construction of the Keddara Dam and the Bamiz Tunnel has been
underway since January 1982, and is progressing satisfactorily.   Bids for
the remaining works were received in March 1984 and are being evaluated.
Their implementation would start by mid-1985.  EPEAL would carry out the
installation of the water meters as well as the leak detection and repair
program.   The  study on  the water  supply and sewerage  sector would  be
completed  by  September  1987  and  the  study  on  the  proposed  national
regulatory agency would be completed by the P:.d of 1986.  The updating of
EPEAL's organization and management studies would be completed by the end of
1986. The physical execution of the project would be completed by the end
of 1989.
54.      Upon compietion of the works, the Government will transfer the the
facilities to EPEAL which will include their total value in its assets (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02 (a), Project Agreement, Section 2.10). A department
of the MHEF, the "Direction G&nerale de 1'Exploitation", DGE, would operate
and maintain the dams on behalf of EPEAL. The other facilities would be
operated and maintained by EPEAL. Maintenance of the Keddara Dam and the
diversion dam on Oued Isser and related works would require special
attention, since any structural failure would result in grave loss of life
and property in the Boudouaou %alley and the Isser Plain. As a precaution,
engineering consultants would be hired by July 1, 1988, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to assist the MHEF to carry out



- 17 -
preventive inspection at least annually for the first five years from 1988
onward, and once every five years thereafter, of the dams and reservoirs.
The MBEF would carry out any remedial actions recommended by the consultants
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.03 (a) (iv) and 3-08 (b)).
Project Costs and Financing
55.      The   total   project   cost   is   estimated   at   $770.5   million
(DA 3,698.5 million) including the capitalized front end fee on the Bank
loan,   with   a   foreign   exchange   component   of   $392.3   million
(DA 1,883.5 million) or about 511 of the total costs, including taxes. Tne
cost estimates were prepared on the basis of actual contracts or bids for
construction  or  provisiGn  of  equipment.   Construction  supervision  is
estimated to account for about 3% of the base costs. Physical contingencies
were set at 15X. Price escalation rates used for local costs were 7.52 in
1984,  7% in 1985 through 1988 and 6% in 1989.  Foreign expenditures were
estimated with price escalation rates of 3.5X in 1984, 81 in 1985, 9% in
1986 through 1988, and 7.5X in 1989. Price escalation for actual contracts
is based on the contractual ceilings.  Price escalation represents 252 of
the base costs plus physical contingencies and construction supervision.
56.      The Bank loan of $290 million equivalent would finance 741 of the
foreign exchange costs of the project, and would be made to the Government
for a period of 15 years including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate. EPEAI would finance the local cost of the secondary
distribution works, the leak detection program, the supply of water meters,
and the technical assistance program for the water company. This represents
91 of the total project cost or $67.8 million equivalent. The Government
would finance the balance of local and foreign costs or $412.6 million
equivalent. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk on the Bank
loan.
Reimb.irsement of the Government
57.      The two dams which would be built  under  the project  represent
enormous investments which would be amortized over a long period of time.
The debt service for their construction, however, would be extremely high,
v          and tariffs would have to increase very substantially at once, if EPEAL were
to service the debt for the dams.  For these reasons, it is proposed that
the cost of the dams be passed to EPEAL as a Government equity contribution
to the company, which will include the dams in its assets (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.02 (a) and Project Agreement, Section 2.10). EPEAL will reimburse
the Government the remaining loan funds or $212 million to which will be
added interest and other charges paid by the Government during the
construction  period.   The  reimbursement  would  be  made  over  25  years
including 5 years of grace, with an interest rate of 101, which is higher
than  the  projected  rate  of  inflation  in  Algeria   (Loan  Agreement,
Section 3.02 (b) and (c)).  Details of the reimiarsement arrangements would



- 18 -
be set forth in a Reimbursement Agreement between the Government and EPEAL.
The execution of this agreement with terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01 (a)).
Procurement and Disbursement
58.      The contract for construction of the Keddara Dam and the Hamiz
Tunnel was awarded following international competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures consistent with Bank Guidelines.  ICB procedures are also
being applied for the remaining works and for all goods to be financed under
the project. Bids for the remaining civil works were received on March 31,
1984. Advance contracting of the proposed works has been rendered necessary
by the need to prevent implementation and disbursement lags of the type
experienced in the two previous Bank projects in the sector. Through July
1, 1984, the Government is expected to have financed $22.4 million in
foreign expenditures from its own resources.  An amount of $3.6 million
would be financed retroactively (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4). In
evaluating bids for the supply of equipment and materials, a 15S margin of
preference or the actual customs duties, whichever is lower, would be
allowed for goods manufactured in Algeria.  Consultant services would be
procured according to Bank Guidelines.
59.      The Bank loan would be disbursed against foreign expenditures made
for the project from July 1, 1984. Disbursement would be made for 100% of
foreign expenditures for goods and services and 40% of total expenditures
for civil works. Disbursements for the meter installation and leak repair
programs would be made for equipment only. The closing date for the loan
would be December 31, 1991.
60.      In order to make prompt payments to contractors and consultants for
the project, it has been agreed to establish a revolving fund in Algeria to
cover these payments. The fund would be maintained in US dollars at the
Central Bank of Algeria for a maximum amaunt of $10 million, which would
cover the Banks share of eligible expenditures for the project over a
period of three months. The fund would be replenished following submission
of  standard  disbursement  requests  (Loan  Agreement,  Schedule  5).   The
establishment of a special account for the revolving fund at the Central
Bank of Algeria would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01 (b)).
EPEAL's Financial Position
61.      In 1983, although EPEAL's net income was negative (operating ratio
of about 120Z),the company had a cash surplus of $4 million (DA 19 million),
which it used in conjunction with customers' contributions to finance part
of its investments in that year.  EPEAL's capital structure is sound, as
reflected by its debt:equity ratio, which remained at about 3:97 at the end
of 1983. The levels of inventory (12 months of consumables) and receivables



- 19 -
(12 months  of water sales),  however,  were high.  A high proportion of
receivables correspond to debts inherited from EPEAL/SEDAL's predecessors
(see para. 65).  An action plan to reduce receivables to not more than 9
months of water sales (excluding accounts dating from prior to 1979) by the
end of fiscal 1984 and for the fiscal years 1985 and 1986, and to not more
than 6 months of total water sales by the end of 1987, was agreed during
negotiations (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07, Project Agreement, Section
4.04). This would include, if necessary, measures to write off old accounts
and to collect from public sector debtors directly through the Ministry of
Finance.
62.      EPEAL derives its revenues mainly from water sales, which until
recently  were  charged at a  flat uniform rate of DA 1.00/m3  ($0.21/rM3)
for all  types of usage.  This tariff was implemented in 1978 under the
Algiers Sewerage Project, as a temporary measure to redress the financial
situation of water supply and severage services in Greater Algiers and
permit revenues to cover at least operating and maintenance costs as well as
debt service as  required under  the  loan.   Under  the  Algiers  Sewerage
Project, SEDAL was required to carry out studies on its financial policies
and structures, which were completed in 1981.  The studies recommended that
its successor, EPEAL finance about 10% of its investments by its own cash
generation,  50%  by  borrowing  and  the  remaining  40%  by  Government
contributions.  The implication of this recommendation was that tariffs bad
to be increased by about 40%.   In addition,  the studies recommended the
introduction of progressive rates for different types and levels of
consumption.  An increase in tariffs averaging 41% has just been approved by
the Government.  Tariffs for commercial, industrial and public consumption
were  increased  to  DA  2.00/1m   ($0.42/m3),  while  tariffs  for  domestic
consumption remained unchanged.  As a result of this increase, the average
tariff  is  now  DA  1.41/m3  ($0.29/M33).  An  understanding  was  reached
during negotiations that EPEAL would introduce progressive block rates for
domestic consumption once individual water meters are installed to replace
the present master water metering systems.
63.      For the future, assurances were obtained from the Government and
EPEAL that EPEAL would adopt as a financial performance objective the
financing of an appropriate percentage of capital investments by funds
q           generated from internal sources.  These targets were agreed to be as not
less that 7% for the years 1986-1990, rising to not less than 15% from 1991,
as additional revenues from the project come on stream, and to not less than
25% from 1992 onwards. Tariff levels would be adjusted accordingly (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.07 and Project Agreement, Section 4.03). This results
in a rate of return on net fixed assets of 4% in 1992, increasing to 71 in
1995. Assurances were obtained that by October 31 of each year, starting in
1985, EPEAL will prepare and review with the Government and the Bank its
financial forecast for the next two fiscal years, indicating the estimated
percentage of EPEAL's capital expenditures incurred or expected to be
incurred during that and the following two fiscal years to be financed
through funds from internal sources (Project Agreement, Section 4.03 (b)).



- 20 -
64.      As part of the project, technical assistance would be provided to
EPEAL for updating the previous studies on organization, management and
financial policies and for the implementation of the recommendations.  TOR's
for this program were agreed during negotiations. Assurances were obtained
from EPEAL that not later than March 31, 1985, it would employ consultants
for the technical assistance program whose qualifications, terms and
conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank (Project
Agreement, Section 2.02). By November 1, 1986 EPEAL would submit proposals
regarding its organizational, managerial and financial structures and a
timetable for their implementation (based on the recommendations of the
studies), to the Government and the Bank for review and approval, and adopt
the agreed  structures  and  procedures  (Loan Agreement,  Section  3.09  and
Project Agreement, Section 2.09).  EPEAL would report to the Bank regularly
on the evolution of selected technical and financial indicators and carry
out any reasonable remedial action suggested by the Bank to meet the
proposed targeted values of the indicators (Project Agreement, Section 3.05).
Accounts, Audit and Reporting
65.      MHEF will establish and maintain accounts  for its part  of  the
project, to be audited by the "Inspection Generale des Finances" which is
considered acceptable as an independent auditor, and submit the accounts and
audit report to the Bank in the nine mouths of the end of each fiscal year
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.02). EPEAL inherited a number of problems with
the   accounts   of   its   predecessor  agencies,  particularly  concerning
receivables, about two thirds of which represent debts which should be
written off through reconciliation and consolidation of past accounts (see
para. 61).   This is currently underway and would be further accelerated
under  the  proposed  technical  assistance  program.   EPEAL's  financial
statements are audited by the "Societe Nationale de Comptabilite"  (SNC),
which is acceptable to the Bank.  It has now been established that after the
close of a fiscal year, a period of nine months is needed to finalize the
audit before the report can be sent to the Bank.  Consequently, agreement
was reached with EPEAL that it will submit its unaudited financial
statements within six months of the end of each fiscal year and the audit
report within nine months (Project Agreement, Section 4.02). MHEF and EPEAL
will  submit   to  the  Bank  quarterly  reports  detailing  progress  in
implementation, especially progress in procurement of equipment, materials
and civil works, progress in construction, and updated cost estimates of
remaining works (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05 (b) and Project Agreement,
Section 2.05  (b)).  MHEF and EPEAL would also prepare and submit to the
Bank, within six months of the closing date of the Loan, a project
completion report (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05(d), Project Agreement,
Section 2.05(d)).
Project Benefits and Justification
66.      The overriding justification for the proposed project is the need
to provide Greater Algiers with adequate water supply services, and



- 21 -
particularly to improve these services in the poorer areas such as El
Harrach  and  Hussin'  Dey,  where  they are most  deficient.   The  proposed
project is the least cost solution to provide an adequate public water
supply. The project would also address the obstacles in the industrial
districts of Rouiba and Ain Taya, where industrial development has been
slowed by the lack of water services.
67.      The   project   would   also  generate   considerable   health   and
environmental benefits, leading to reduced expenses on health care, higher
productivity of the population,  and improved welfare.   Under the current
tariff structure of EPEAL, the lowest income customers do not spend more
than 1% of their income for water supply, as against the norm of 5%, which
indicates that it will be possible to introduce higher rates for domestic
consumption once the domestic metering system has been improved under the
project. The average incremental cost (AIC) of providing water supply in
Greater  Algiers  varies  between  DA  1.28/mr3  ($0.27/m3)  and  DA  2.06 rM3
($0.421Vm3) at discount rates of 6% and 10%, respectively.  At any discount
rate, the commercial, industrial and public consumers (which represent about
40O of water sales), pay tariffs which are higher than AIC. In addition, it
is envisaged that a progressive tariff structure be generalized once the
domestic metering system has been replaced (see para. 64).  The economic
rate of return for the project, using present tariffs as a proxy for
benefits, is 8%.
68.      Through increasing the supply of potable water, the project would
have a beneficial environmental impact, by helping to improve sanitary
conditions.   However, as a result of the project, wastewater volumes in
Greater Algiers would increase and must be evacuated properly.  For this,
the improvement and expansion of sewerage services under the Algiers
Sewerage Project should be completed as planned.
69.      The  proposed  project  is  also  expected  to  help  institution  -
building in the sector.  This would be achieved through strengthening EPEAL
so that it can perform as an effective regional authority and a model for
similar agencies, by improving the efficiency of water supply services, and
through the implementation of sound managerial and financial policies.
Risks
70.      There is a risk that the Government would not implement the tariff
increases in the timely fashion required to maintain the self-financing
ratios indicated as financial performance objectives for EPEAL.  In view of
the recent decisions taken by the Government regarding the overall
institutional and financial framework and objectives for the sector, which
emphasize that water utilities should be managed as commercial enterprises
and should implement the tariffs necessary to make them financially
self-supporting, this risk appears relatively remote. There are no special
risks involved in the technical execution of the project. The availability



- 22 -
of contracts or bids for most of the components allows a relatively
confident estimate of project costs.  In spite of this, the volume of works
for components such as dams and tunnels might increase substantially,
resulting  in a decrease  of the return on the investments.   There is a
further risk that procurement problems would delay project implementation.
However the advanced status of procurement and the proposed packaging of
project components into two or three large contracts reduces this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.      The  draft  Loan  Agreement  between  the  Democratic  and  Popular
Republic of Algeria and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the
Bank and EPEAL, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section  4  (iii)  of  the  Articles  of  Agreement  are  being  distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
72.      Special  features  of  the draft  Loan and  Project Agreements are
referred to in the text and in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions
of  effectiveness  include:  (i)  execution of  the Reimbursement  Agreement
between the Government and EPEAL (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01 (a)); and
(ii) establishment of a special account in the Central Bank for the
revolving fund for the project (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01 (b)).
73.      I am  satisfied  that  the  proposed  loan  would  comply  with  the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
74.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 12, 1984



- 23 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                              Page 1 of 5
ArnrAU                -lseac :. 1        al ?
AmIEa                              mZFZX  EiS funoz  AvUUams  a
M=                POS~(~T REEN ESTR&=~ lb
&         as     S. *1146UI
1 1f0      ,,W    :    -Wr     S. FEM       D EASr   LA-AMRC 4 CMX
m    C a     uR. no
TarS                            2381.7     2381.7      23817               _
A4IXCOLDT5.                      444        443.2      433.2 _
W  gmK C*EPU ConS)                  S330O      750_0     2140.0           130.0                   25D.2
OF Gs.L 32c11.m)       321.0      280.0      814.0           Q8L0 .4076
NOIL4MM A-  uts. SUKU
POwM.AK.rnD-WAR ctcm*ins)  10600.0    1374.0    19602.0
*DM 1;01.2AM CX- 00 TOM.)         30.4       34-0       a&3              47._                    6S_9
PPUZATON P80cit!m33n
EoA.&o IS WAR 210 CNEL)                               30-3               - _
SmN       ea9m or m o(NL)                            111_1
TEAs S:.TTL  OW.         D                           2 2_
rorMO DENSm.
mm   -  S                        4-5_         8        7.9             36.0                    33.6
Pt SQ. UM AI? LA                24.2       3t_1   * 3_2               49.0                     93.2
PAl    S AjCI STSETURE C!)
0-141ts                        43-S       48.1       47-3             43-9                    0I
15-4 us                         52_4       47.6       49.2             52.8                    33.8
65 AND AOI                      3-9        4.3        3_5              3.3                     4.1
TONL                            2.1        2.4        3.2              2.9                     2.3
5D*S                             5-2        3_5        5.6              4.6                     3_7
X  DIITS am (FM 7 )               5304       4&Z1        4-1             42.5                    31.3
C        DATh IATE (PM  D)        Z2_9       16.7       13.4             12.0                     0L1
GRSS EmDCT  sVA7                   3_6        3.6        3.6              3.0                     2.0
-1Y  C!LA      3 II-.
em t- C= OF N  Q _ _ __   _   _
(1969-71-100)                   l1O       1IO.0       81.0             97.5                   It3_0
ES CAPTm St PLT OF
CscR_      C! OF 0IMUMt)        76.0       76.0      1010             102.3                   11L13
P60IEIU (GRM5 PE DAT)           .9-0       40-0       64.0             72_0                    67.9
OFWHI  ssIs.K *AND PULsE       11.0       11.0        4-OIc           17.61
CU.D (CG  1.4) WAT  1!            38_8       29.7       10-0             13.Z                     5.3
LI  WMM=   AT SIR= (13-4)         47.0       52.7       56.4             57.2                    64.6
lFAar NUT. MRA  (PU   0WS)       165-0      144.0      1143             t04-.2                   42S6
ACCES TO SAFE %WAI (lIar)
SruTs                             -_-        _        77-0CM           593                     64.8
OAN                               .        8a~o      iao.dle-          84.9                    77.8
IDEa.-                                       _-       60.0a            37-S                    44.3
AS    TO CDI D?SPS.
(: OF PO0ATIOE)
O M                                         9.0       4L0td              __                    546
_1_3                              __       13_0       610.7a             __                    69.8
Il                                __        6.0       4oJili              -                    29-8
POPULAIE PU PUItcLAS            55300      7370.0     2650.0           353460                  1776.0
PMa_ Pisn   SING PEm        -_             2730.0      740.0           18Qa.7                  10IZ22
oLW. PER UloPTr    a
tOrn.                          310.0      340.0      380.tfc          643-3                   477.0
53345                          120.0/.    220.0      330.07c-         565.0                   667.5
355                               _. _       _AL                     2442i0                  1921.6
A*msSS10  PER NOSLrT  MM                     14.3       20-l1c           26.4                    27.2
AEtAG SIZC OP H
SML                               --1 59f               ___--
AVM IDk OF~T CX SOF SLR
ACCRSTI                            *-Wr (--7 CI_                          __                      __
TOM                                        342J/f           _          4.2
al                              ~~~~     ~~74.07!  ..       77.1 
m                                 ._       12.0ff       __             Ifl-



-24-                                     ANNEI I
L A 5 t E  3a                    Page  2  of  5
A.LaER                - SOCgIAL rMrCN 1S 30M  c
JM-CEa.                             REF        GPS (imET  AVuzs) /T
.GM-_             CM~(OST REC    ESTLIU2Z  lb
I%Gfb  ~      RECENT           WM- DLE   m rIL  lcH
I 960m    1970   ESr1l!ATh     S5. aFRCA & MM EAST   LAT. MMICA  CUM
AD.3S=  QLL'9 RATIOS
PRL-'ARP:  Mt7*                  4.6.0       76.0       95_0             89_6                    105.0
55.o       93.0      108_0             104.8                    106_3
37.0       58_C       6!1_0             7.4.                    103.6
SECPGaN   IOTA.                   8.0        11.0       33.0             *I_7                     40.0
r   9.0   16.0       4.0_0             52._                     3tL6
6.0        6.0       26.0              31.2                     1_2
WriThOSI  t0 OF SECOSMAR)          29.0       19.7        IS!A            10_3                     34.0
PCPIL-7EA.E RATIO
PR--ART                          3e.0       40.0        35_0             31.9                     30.7
SECARY                           18S0        21.0       25.0             23_3                     16_7
AOIL Lrl,Act RATS (                :r 0i      26.         35_0             &3.3                     79MS
PASSBENR CAR3Sp:uHsAD POP          15.7       zo._        19.5/d           1110                     5_6
R8It0 RECE-KERV7H0CSAM POP         55.2       63.3       170.7            138_1                    228.2
Tr RECEZI.ERSPI8OCSA!D POP          5.6        6.0        5'_5             *5.6                    10.3
SE;;PAPER t -AT- ' GM"L
tMMRES-) C-R,CLAItO%
PER TCSAD  LL--IOS                27.8       20.0        23.3             31.0                     64.1
Ct%-A AMML AlT   ACECAPZTI          2.2        6.5         2.5             17                       2.9
TOTAL LOR FORCE (TlOCS)          2598.0      2731.0     2_0                  _ .
F;-4ALE (PERCE!T)                 4.4.        6.6        9.1             107                     26_8
GRICCLEURE (FPERCES)             S7.0        50.0       ZS-.             42.5                     313
WLWStRY (cPERCES)                12.0       15.0        Z5_0             27_8                     23.9
PAZiMCI?ATIOS AL'E (PERCMC)
TOrL                             24-1        19_9       20.5             25.6                     31.3
SLLE                             47.1       37.6        37.5             45_4                     9.8
FL*.E                             2.1        2.6        317               5.6                     16.8
EM8OC    DEC  EfL RATIO             2.0        2.6         2.5              1.8                      1._
1C DISZRNTO
PMtESIT OF PRIVATE IE
RECEVED w
ffGES: 5 OP H0ME13D5
RIHEST ZO: OF 905ElX35M            _ _S
LOMST 2= OF HHO OLDS05             _           __
Loe5ST 40 OF RtSEmS               _           _                           __
m,   r m~s
:- -S1TE POVER7 IRcOtE
LFV  (t,$ SEg CAPITA)
URRAz N                                        _          __            276_1                    219-8
REMRAL                             _                      - .           177.1                    l84. 5
ES121ATFD RE;ATrVE POVERIT XIRC0
LETL WSS PER CAPI M)
CRUAS-                                                                  400_0                    519.8
RAbL                                                     __             283_3                    372.1
ESTI8AT!D POP. BP-. ABSOrLT!
POVERrfTYC  LEM.(2
15345                              _. -.                  ..             22.0
RUML                               -'          ''         ''             30.8
PIrT AVAILABLE
POT APF ICABLE
I O T E S
/a The group swerages for each indlestor are populattowwelghted arithmetce mean. Covermte of cmtries mog the
lndicators depends on ailabllty of data sad i- not untfors.
lb  Unless otherv-se noted. -Data for 1960- refer to any year betwen 1959 and 1961: Data for 1970o beieen 1969 and
1971; and data for -,-s Recent Estimte  betuven 1979 and 1991.
le  1977. Id 1976: /e 1962: If 1966: LE Cert-ln fietds of wtody pretoumly classified uder other second level educatior
of  ot.rlool or Ce  teal tor. are n  reported ou.dr general detfou: therefor, dta are not eomparable .ith
those of earlier years.
Sky 1983



-25-
ANNEX I
at-._`LL   l1aL                                                 Page  3  of  5
,5t.: a ico   c.Sc....c 'I'               cccc         ccCL   a-   m         accsc  ctc   -rducc.IcA c..c   --               Eci  Cc                                 EbIo     -gcc.caol
c..oStc     - em. Icc-..            MEtlcd tot           .-ce.caa   -S Sflcc  a-rCa.  ca ccw-L--tm   c   ac.    cd   a.                    ota.atlt
Mr.        a.fcmc  cictc    4c                  ca~a  c.c                           cc.   ..    cm.!%      -ccaiica dcc. --tLL t             ctcm  coot..         -
cccts        .icc.ca   c              .ic    c  -m..--                       -   al Sin  a   c           c.     aI-ctac-              c   et.Z"b    cc-         y
-- -L-
tC  t "W c. ccen(M .L  CW          in-  E   ei.   -  c   c.cn WEm.*                           a-d.c a-U.ctftc..-                          a 
c..                g~~~~".m tw   .-a  "a..                                                                    Fmcaco ccc tocc  a    ttlmccc                       us cC  - too.iaOtc(c
con-cr 03-mc-p-z- 10 C.F-.crc..                                                     atc   dcc...my c.c  rccctcco           ..-L  C%.1 ta      I
___                                                                                             - a-(ci      c, ccoocgca  .,c  c.   cr  accabo-  c  S cic.ccot c cctlmc _ .
asccacd  c  coc.cc   .,o.-   cc.     -t.  cta - o.                ~           ncscccarccm                  .c.ccccblc                    ad        ttc
cc..Mtt.     ts   c..5  cicta    clgc.fcmgcc   c.o.  ccgcl    d
Ztt-  -aLttt.Z~~ - 773.m.cccotc. ia.                           -c, r.  coco-at.        g.aL        ctty  a..
ct tc .ota  (c-t ct coc:)-  ac..              -   cac_  I.-I.c-Il-
dcttc.a  accc-g--  .              L.Cdft far   cat-lt - t or.                          a-tm           _     E                  -' 9                 3         .    
t.4cca  c    -- --a   Cec5coltc   cac                              c                       mc   s.csi.       atc       ad?  s       s   -            *Idit
rot...  Orjc.tcc crcoccrc  ct cctctct .aco ctcc  t    coc.ca                  t                                             L"LccI5-rca.  t  c   a.  ac...
cocga   as  lccf*      tat   li. acccat        ccMl!mcc7. d-laa..s.?co.. -A.  L-I,                                           .LcSc c--f c._LEt  C cmc
o.c.   25 cca-cto  at  acclcc ca. ca.       cco                                                                      -LLcIa  ceccamiac c--m.
icciat c '.cLLc, ateS .mcc s La.    6c-cLL maU                            Wa     ftl ccccrcrc tc.aa a  dolcc .c    Moa. atm.              cat!-
rca-tm  ccra.o.   ca.  ccry.rc.ctoda-a  hc   1c                                            cal        Lcs _1   cc cC_. tc-cc. ccLac t_r                ,t
cii~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~S: o aclc      ..icycci . cjtta                             I itc!  m. acd c-t.tlis  cc.cc,
cc.lctcots        a,acad-  m       c a  c.c-1cc  ..c.ro-.Itco  as.aac   lag-                                               cL   o.         cts          mi
-  g.."zccato  c                     ar  .gasc  (i   CcsCI  fpocdoaari a- attI -aL.                                        - at  acc   c,tcc   gcottt -LK
Eocats  git!1. a  cc  aa.,moaali  c.  c  tc W-LW                                                                                     ISt   .at              a-
Pc. to  to.. .gttcattea! ta   - C~aS cc .5... tot amcgrc:mctaL leS   ccoCtot a.m V.5.1..
m .2,Ecc.-rctc   c   n.                -!a tccCoo cid-ca                                     011 c-L  dctatt.cc .  coct-Lc.gccoa.
E= mc  c"cat.                              W                    C ,raa                  tk -.        .c..MiI-L c. th- t ccd.
to e  c.cclactas;  1 5..  c dt.              . clot  SIc...                  _____-________
cctmttcoo  n.m.. .r.  -   c.!  ac...c-cscact4. I .. Lc   .15c   cct..c15.c                                                                 .   .cc 
~~~~53infa~~-    cfm   c, cf dcccto a     cit~E    -aa ccctitt  .5ila.
k.al       9-Vi   . -iia  . cattc   -d c   ccoctcc.O                                                                                       a -t   c-.cftOc  cc.  g    cio  cmacs      L  .. cf  Lcctm fat cfad.
WIcltyrcc:-aci.tccwa   coan  as.  c  i..  c!.-                                                .cacccsc.a  cbcccc  ma-d.7ctmagalmIm 
clo ..                                                                                     ltcad  nci.c   c .           -cc    c  cc-. WE     natctoaeI
W!i c.rg-cccP_.I.ccoc-                                                                      Mot.c  Cic.. -ga   cc  caacrccctc*.   co, ch. acc.m
; nrc.           rrc!oc cc ct-o -g                                                                         cccc.c -cccc-ft,cga0q   .1 c.das   cc.t.ig
0  -.-L  .1.             W.W..d          t.                          f-  -2,LLL~~~~~m  -  ct    cc an.. tam t.c   as   i-ccc.
W-   g  s  ccc.   cat    o.    icc Ecc.-  urLaMM  1cc.77.m.Cco                               ctccdcoccCtc                       t -mc    E.S
ictO. blILL                                                                                     ant 
Fcc cacm  toiccf cgcgc  'cc,cccatcociccacct-  Ccctcc.d tc                          lT_cr  cpc  fa         iI .-c.tclc-c.            t   c. -     ctcfl E
.cn..   a c..                  b-ccccl     Ec?ic  ci    coicct fcct-    W . coc.             co.mhc -Ia S   i-E! L       lo  dtaI .. - .
atict  cci cim ccana             ccitocmc   crcr.  ma- cIsc.                                  'imo        crc.c  oa   ae               t.c:itO.iit t            ic
ac   toc -ioc  go.t ta-IWm   -.. -- gcvg dt.                                                   -   ic-icc..e..-cc      ccane  a  aL!gaefeltiO
cmcZ   i   scct c.ecc  c'Icc  7ccitatmc   1ac                                               ..fatcc  aa-c.  cettttct aco.acco -                   Lac  t!o .     
dari   tro a!asc  -   .:cc )  Br-ccb-   .  icngti  -It cci igtt?.                                                                         -1t-
S.c...                                              (flcB cmlii Imiflas~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lq



- 26 -
13tt :o        19911 (add-19C2. tllusmf                                                                  MMLL
uW Pr Capita: UIS 23S1 (19a21                                                                            P_ 4 o S
-t~~~~~~~~~~~~
(lilltm 05SS at                   huwal Growth       m  aef      t 194 
cursit Drtces)                             al                                      rned
Iieater                     T960        1975  1976  1977_9 73 _197 _10_ 1_1 2__ 191311  16   195  1WU   1987
Grans dmt  product af   41.422          3.4   5.9   7.9  12.2   S.S   4.4   4.4   6.3  S57          S.1   6.4   6.Z   6.2
AgriCulture              2.710      24.4  -5.5  -7.2  12-4   S.3  12.0   2.6   3-0   3.5         3.S   3_5   3.S   3.S
ihstry                  Z3.635       0.3  12.4   7.6  11.7  11.0  -0e4   3_1   6.5   7_2    59   7.1   7-3   7-3
Services                13.02        4.6   7.4  11.2  12-9  -2.3  11.6   6.4   6.6   6.0         4.0   6.0   5.0   s.0
Consumption                23.2S7      10TS  11.1   3.5   9.5   5.7  13.4  13.0   7.3   2.9         4.3   5.1   3.2   3.2
Gross invest               16.740       6.9  -0.6  20.7  16.4 -11.6   a.5   0.6   3.5  56          4.Z   3.2   2.1   2.6
Exports af 6FS            14.314       0.2   3S  5.1   S.1   3.5 -12.2  -3.5  -1.9   4.2          7.0   3.6   2.0   2.0
Iports of  FS              12.919     t152  -3.1  20.9   7.1 -11-6  10.6  10.3  -0.2  -1.4          4*1   3.8   3.7   3.7
Gmrss natil savrnss Ul   16.56t    -14.3   7.2   3.5   4.6  16.7  21.9   0.3  -7.6   4.3            7.3   58-   7.4   7.0
B= 1974 = 1003
ExoWt price tndex z/                  96.3 109.4 120.0  113.7 1S8.1 265.3 323.6 316.9 303.3   325Z2  379.3 434.9 491.4
Irort price tndex c                   1TS.8  T25-9 138.2  148.0 162.0 171.1 191.3 197.1 210.4   238.4 260.6 26S3.  23.7
Term Of trade tndex Cj                83.2  86.9  36.8  76.8  95.0  156.6 168.7 160.3  144.2   142.4 152.2 1611.  169.6
OP doelator                           104.6  115.1  12.5  140.7 160.1 197.Z 220.6 Z32.9 253.5   275S  29C60 313.5 332.6
Enchwe rat (A per USS)                 3.9   4.2   4.1   4.0   3.9   3.8   4.3   4.6   4.8
Share of 0P at Market Prices CS)                  AverUl Amual Inces CZ)
rat    o    riceslCdl             ___t                                   __
1960  7970  7975  1980  1965  1O                  1-7-75  1975-3   1980-al  194L0
Gross doistic product a,    100.0 100.0 1W000 100.0  10e00  100.0         4.3      6.3      8.1       5.6     6C1
Agriculture               16.0  10.1   5.8  613   5.7   5.0            0.1      4.0      2.5       3.3      3.5
industry                  34.3  3B.s  5130  56.Z  SS.0  60.7          11.6      5.1      5.9       6.3      7.1
Services                  45.2  44.5  32.4  32.1  31.3  z9.3          -21      3.4      5.7       S.1      5.0
Cnnsution                    75.1  70-7  61.8  S552  70.9  73.s           2.1      5.3      9.9       7.1      3.3
Grass inestment              41.8  36.4  50.0  39.9  38.7  32.3         -0.2      19.7      6.7      3-4       2.3
Exports GNFS                 31.1  22.0  34.2  34.6  20.9  16.2          -3-4      1.3      1.9       1.5      0.3
rYDorts GIFS                 45.0  29.1  46.0  32.6  30.4  27.0         -4.0      15.7      4.3       3.2      3.6
Gross nat'onal savinas h1    25.8  28.7  39.9  39.3  37.1  33.2                  20z9      9-7      224       3.8
A=     S of GniP       _
1970     197S     1980
PUILt-1 RIUICE
Crreint renemues                         26.8     44.5      39.6
Current    jjDcndtures                   1s58      21.6     17.3
Surplus COl or deficit (-)               11.0      22.9     22.3
Capital -,cm dlture                      20.6      30.0     27.1
Foreign financing                         -         -        -
1960-70  1970-75  1979-80  lU6-8S  196-90
GNP growth rate CZ)               *42       6.S      7.1       6.1      6.4
GIP per capita growt rae (S)       1.7      3.3      3.6       2.5      3.0
Energy consumton growth rate (S)  12.7 f/  10.8      a.5      9.S       5.0
ICUR                               6.4      6.2      5.5      7.3       5.9
eirtnal savings rate                       48.3 3S.5          17.5     21.3
Import elasticity                 -0.9      2.9      0.5      0.6       0.6
a/ At market Prices  CoDonents are expressed at factor cost nd do not add up due to exclusion of indirect taxis.
Dl Incldirng the teros of trade effects.
rl On goods ad non Factor serwices
d/ Projected years at constant prices.
9/ Estimate
f/ 196S-70.
20948 P3
MAY B. 1984
Eam  cPrm



Population         19911 (mid-1982. thousands)
(C;P per Calta:  ;;Z35: (19Rg'_ fP                                                                                                                  s or s
!1;' - R '          ACE 5tr   W4V415  FX,TERA CAPrTAL An OM
(Million USS at current Prices)
:netcatc-                                                        Actual                                                     Proj
i9 6      ,597     .9!s      779       los       1981      1982   1953(e)    194         195       1N       1967
SALAWOCr ` 73 Fn-
Export.s of goces and ser-ices        S.S,    6.'e4    6.7,3    'O.IC5   14.500   15.191   14.35S   13.990   16.40t   19.657   ZZ.494   25.8S
Cf at.cr1h:  -rert. 1se '.c.be    5.21    6.229    6.34'    5,483   13.652   14.127   13.510   13.116   15.424   1.5S2   21.264   Z4.649
4mortS ef goods and serv-ces          6.oS8    3.S39   'C.58   12.361   14.55Z   1S.52   14.9035   15.S6    13.945   21.197   2.3510   26.S 
Cf wltc!- Nei -n: -cse c- 'f    5.'24    -.75'         -. 9      8?9 . 636   10.619   11.240   11.111   10.96a   13.517   1S.199   17.004   19.017
ket tranFers                            4C4       2'        3!-       320       301       406       367       433      472       S11       547       586
Current account Ba'arce                 -882   -2.322   -3.533   -1.632         249        15      -16    -1.437   -2.06s   -1.132        -469       411
Private direct ivestment                r.4       '7!        35        10       31S       -97      -65       260       270       26        290       36
"LT Tcas (ne.i                        1.496    2*7 :       .74      Z.276       637       -26      -637      6E5    2.166    1.137         m77      -26
7:5'c-a,  '   :-4  ;S:       4a3       376       190       -32       326       107       42       -14       -51
Privat:e                            .::a:!    .99a    '.Se       ..a"        261     -2161     -5         355    2.061    1.095         591      -7
Other raDita'- -                                                                 23        33      -3U         77        -5        -6       -9        -3
Change in reserves                      -S:       lSS      - 5t      -643   -1.223         77    1.273       415      -36       -379      -369       426=
internattona! reser.e                 T ,65    '. 68      ;5g-    2.659    3.773    3.695    2.422    2.007    2.37S    2.7S4    3.143    4.1MU
Retse-ves ?s -onvs 'C                      3        .                             3         2         2         2        2         2         2         2
rXT9F_L t4:A _:APITZ_ A%2 2
Gress  7sburse5een:s                  1.929    2.S51    -.6c3       3.813    3.042    2.426    2.S79
3ff'c-a7 gs.rs                        -                             -         -         -        -
Ccncesscna  'an                       -2       S2i SS              .!S        67       31        91
A5 C                                         8r SC              .:         6        26        16
>_n
57t'er                             57        41        35      114        6l         5        73
%a -co'cesste.a- '_ans             8.5.    2--7    C4.538       3.678    2.975    2.4131    2.4U8
fO.c!a7 ex:c-: crec':s             5s       Z:S       !E       3B.       457       286       207
Sc       53        53        47        39        42        93
C:-.er                                                           TS':  er2. -  -11  -         22
P-lvate                        -,.7:c    :35    :.363    3.233    2.468    2.101    2.166
E.ter-a' Ceb5
De-: cutstarC'1 n r.c c   s_ed  5 346    5. 1' t      2.6e!    14.918   15.078   14.066   13.741
iff"cia!                                           ! '  ?.653    2.122    2.479    2.490    2.509
,,iva:e                      64.64    s.aa6    '.1C7    12.796   12,599   11.576   11.239
UntisD?rsec 2523                   6.C32    C.65S     7.357    2.9:4       M.i'a    5.930    4.525
Dett service
fota3 service vay:*nts               773        .178    i.452    2.691    3.710    3.595    4.231
!nteres,                        i340       383       55S    1.153    1.306    1.207    1.334
Pa)imrts as s expo-ts               'A7 5     T.1       2'.6     26.6      25.6      23.7      29.5
Aver-se  nterest fa:e cn rene   13w  !_,  8.:         -.) C      3      !G.        8.3       8.5       8.5
Of TC a:                                8)C       5.'       7         7.8       a.:
A.rva; e  aa                               5      78 c2              *0 7       a.s
Ay,era;e sat"rt. cF r4.  l^an5   :!Ars)  Q7             8 .I            155       10.5       8.0       8.
O :lfic-al                                   11o       '-                   3.7      .4 2
^   Pri vate                              C .3 6   .7      3a7        9.7       8.7
f De bett Outstandrna at Fnd of (1ti901
Maturlty strictJre 5f de!it   s3aneSlnc
Principal due -itni3  s years                                        58.0
Prtncl'a' due -. t-4   : years                                       92.9
:nterest struictue tf 4e4ze-. ^: . lnC2
rnter-est due  it:nl^ -sar                                            6.4
tel Est.mate.
204993 ;
may 8. 7984
EN,EJA CP::B



- 28 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK PROJECTS IN ALGERIA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1984)
Loan or                                                         Amount in US$ Million
Credit                                                          (less cancellations)
Number      Year    Borrower                       Purpose      Bank  IDA Undisbursed
Sixteen loans fully disbursed                                  396.37
1159 AL     1975    The Demacratic and Popular  Tech. Asst.      8.00         1_56
Republic of Algeria         Rural Dev.
1378 AL     1977    The  )egocratic and Popular  Education      13_66        12.94
Republic of Algeria
1545 AL     1978   The Democratic and Popular  Sewerage         82.00        70.71
Republic of Algeria
1595 AL     1978   The Democratic and Popular  Education        21.50        17.46
Republic of Algeria
1683 AL     1979   The Democratic and Popular  Highways        126.00        51.72
Republic of Algeria
S-17 AL     1980   The Democratic and Popular Water Supply    5.00            2.35
Republic of Algeria         Engineering
1802 AL     1980    The Democratic and Popular  Bas Cheliff      8.00         6.82
Republic of Algeria         Irrigation
1803 AL     1980    The Democratic and Popular  Education        3_80         3.46
Republic of Algeria
1892 AL     1980    The Democratic and Popular  Highways       110.00       101.75
Republic of Algeria
2370 AL*    1984   The Democratic and Popular  Telecom         128.00       128.00
Republic of Algeria
TOTAL                                               902.33
of which has been repaid                      178.27
Total nov outstanding                               724.06
Amount sold                        34.81
of which has been repaid     34.81
Total nov held by Bank                              724.06
Total undisbursed                                                396.77
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS - None (Algeria is not a meber of IFC)
* Not effective.
ID.856Bp.5



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
- Project Identificacion                         July 1979
- Time taken by Borrower to prepare project    2 years
- Agency responsible for project preparacion   Ministry   of   Hydraulics,
Environment and Forestry
- First Bank mission to review project           May 1980
- Date of departure of appraisal mission         June 1981/updated
in March 1984
- Date of completion of negotiations             June 1, 1984
- Planned date of effectiveness                  March 1985
Section II; Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Effectiveness:
(i) Execution of the Reimbursement Agreement between the Government and
EPEAL (para. 57);
(ii)  Establishment of a special account  for a revolving fund for the
project at the Central Bank (para. 60).
Other conditions:
Wi) EPEAL will carry out a program to reduce water losses (to not more
than 30% of production by 1990 (para. 51));
t              (ii)  MHEF will maintain a panel of experts to review the design of the
dams and related structures, will carry out annual preventive
inspections of the dams and reservoirs for the years 1988 through
1992 and once every 5 years thereafter with the assistance of
consultants employed under the project, and will take any necessary
remedial action (paras. 52 and 54);
(iii) The Government will transfer the works and facilities under the
project to EPEAL, which will include their value in its assets
(para. 54). The cost of the two dams will be passed to EPEAL as an
equity contribution from the Government.  EPEAL will reimburse the
Government for the remaining works and facilities over a period of
25 years including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate of 10%
(para. 57);



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
tiv)   EPEAL would carry out an action plan in order to reduce receivables
to not more than 9 months of water sales (excluding accounts prior
to l979) by the end of 1984, 1985 and 1986 and to not more than
6 months of total water sales by the end of 1987 (para. 61);
(v)  EPEAL  would  adopt  as  a  financial  performance  objective  the
financing of an appropriate percentage of capital investments by
funds generated from internal sources.   EPEAL will  prepare and
review with the Government and the Bank, no later than October 31
of each year beginning in 1985, its financial forecast for the next
two fiscal years, indicating the estimated percentage of EPEAL's
capital expenditures for those years to be financed through funds
from internal sources (para. 63);
(vi)  EPEAL will employ consultants, no later than March 31, 1985 for a
technical assistance program to update studies on EPEAL's
organizational,   managerial   and   financial   structures   and
procedures.   EPEAL  will  submit  a  proposal  regarding  these
structures and procedures as well as a timetable for their
implementation to the Government and the Bank for review and
approval by November 1, 1986, and adopt the agreed structures and
procedures promptly thereafter (para. 64); and
(vii) EPEAL will report to the Bank regularly on the evolution of
selected technical and financial indicators and carry out any
reasonable remedial action suggested by the Bank (para. 64).



ALGERIA
S ~                          ^ ~ - e  ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER S
URBAN AREAS TO BE
_ _    U      ~~IBN   UZIRI       ,
C H  G Ar..    EL                                  ~~~~ALGIERS
,  ..-*                                                             I -IO R/
I'LET, -                                         DR   IA    I         R
- -      E I  A
*-                                            ~~~~~~~~~~N%
1          -.   -- - WI~~~~VLAY'A BOUtOARIES
-00         INTERNATIONdAL BOUNDARIES                         [I



IBRD 16088
OCTOBER 1981
ALGERIA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
AkS TO BE SERVED
ROUIBA -REGHAIA
4),                                                               TOURBAI AREAS TO BE SERVED
/              @~~~ /                                                         _       ALGIERS CITY LIMITS
d~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ i-                                                        GHEATER ALGIERS LIMITS
| b   .                     /                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   - DISTRICT AND TOWNSHIP BOUNDARIES
J   L                                                   EXISTING URBAN AREAS 1977
r   4                        ,'                                      I MOU S TRIA L AREAS .  197 1
r         X                                                                  MAIN ROA0S
_J         )              - /                                            .    RAILWAY        LIMITS
l N                                                          RsMIE RaDS
\R
RIVER.-



2-v)  00'                             3 15'                                   3'30
Me    ie r r _- n e c a                           5 e c
iS-- aint Eugene   R     ty Y.2i.;'2AC   Ain ToyoBoudouoou
--          '.  Saint Eu~~gen    S  fRAHmna                            Water Treatmient Plonit~  
- ~ Z   - f  =UrfPI//vG SrA VON
, -'   -       (he,cgc             .ALGIERS       Fort de                                                                Zeni
* t-:5  XSmsue]              -       Huseein Dey  lEou              Roubabu
-- '  t                                                                          Ro.,bo 'X2
uern           / *'-'e                                             .  Keddc,r '_
Beni
\ r _/                                   to                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kot'
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ y
I-~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              --,
)             ...............                                    '                A      KILOMETER~~~~~~~~~~~KLOM TE S , .
Z   a, . v                                            '             <           ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES   -5
31? IS                                3'30
JTo& ,



IBRD 16089R
APRIL 1984
ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
General Layout
Project Existing  Future
-   - -   A j  Water Supply Pipeline
02000                     Diameter in Millimeters
~~~ ,'. ~~~~~~~~Tunnel
,emour.                                                                                (ID                     Pumping Station
0                       Storage Tank     3645'-
Thienio                      Bod   ejie                                 ~                                  2'Reservoir
*            Draa ben   Tizi .Quzou               -- -         ~~~~~~~~~~Well Fieldi
-r  _ _)      | hea                                                Momn Roads
i -  ;_   ;   jZo   seb ci - .Railways
O1emoo A'vol                                 uE
uk El                                               Contours in Meters
-  1028         Elevotions in Merers
;~~:   ~   s  -   -  International Boundary
Ben. A-rana        .,
Dom
Algiers
- alkhdaria                                                                                                 Area of Map
aodirio    v,      ,gDa el Mizan                 7
Koudiot Acerdoune                                           -
I - - . -J -A   L G   E  R  I  A
'N
107          c         25                          _ 
N~~~~~~
f~~~~~~~~~- 1-
3S4l Besse CO                                                                        14  .d l-      I>.-   atC"  4_W~~~e
zC! rc#Acr ~~~~~~~~~I                                                                 -t -  | -d-   -C * s   lO _cwt-s .1 c, 0c Cv r ,



