Document of
The World Bank
FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5068a-AL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
June 11, 1984
Water Supply and Sewerage Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 2, 1984)
Currency Unit   =  Algerian Dinar (DA)           100 Centimes
DA 1                                 =    US$ 0.21
US$1                                 =    DA 4.80
DA 1,000,000                         -    US$ 208,333
ABBREVIATIONS
ft    =   foot                          m         =   meter
ha        hectare                       mm        =   millimeter
Km    =   kilometer                     Mm3       =   million of cubic meters
inh   =   inhabitant                    m3/sec        cubic meters per second
lcpd  =   liters per capita per day   min             minute
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Metric System                                 U.K. System
Kilometer (km)                           =   0.62 mile (mi)
hectare (ha)                             =   2.47 acres (a)
Meter (m)                                =   3.28 feet (ft)
Cubic meter (m3)                              220 gallons (g)
Million cubic meters/year (Mm3/year    =   0.603 million gallons  per day (mgd)
Liter (1)                                =   0.220 gallon (g)
Liters per second (1/sec)                     19,000 gallons per day (gd)
Kilogram/cm2                             =   0.981 Bar
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
EPEAL     =   Entreprise de Production,  de Cestion et de Distribution
d'Eau d'Alger
DGE       =   Direction Generale de l'Exploitation
DGIH      =   Direction Generale des Infrastructures Hydrauliques
DWH       =   Direction de la Wilaya d'Alger Chargee de l'Hydraulique
SEDAL     =   Societe des Eaux de l'Agglomeration d'Alger
SONADE    =   Societe  Nationale  de  Distribution  d'Eau  Potable  et
Industrielle
SNC            Societe Nationale de Comptabilite
EPEAL's FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.      INTRODUCTION  .............................................                            1
II.      THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE  SECTOR  .....................                           2
Background  ..........................................                         2
Water Resources .............................   3
Sector Organization  .................................                         4
Service Levels  ......................................                         5
Constraints  to Sector Development  ...................                        5
Investment  Program  in the Sector  ....................                       6
Previous  Bank Loans  in  the Sector  ...................                       7
Bank's  Objectives  for  the Sector  ....................                      8
III.       THE PROJECT AREA  ........................................                            8
General  Features  ....................................                        8
Water Production Facilities  .........................                          9
Conveyance  System  ...................................                        9
Existing Distribution Network  .......................    10
Existing  Sewerage  ...................................    10
IV.      DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS  ...............................                            11
Water Consumption  ...................................    11
Composition of  the Demand  ...........................    12
Population Forecast ..................                                        12
Projected Water Consumption  .........                 ................    13
V.      THE PROPOSED PROJECT ..................................                               13
Project  Genesis  and Concept  ..........               ...............    13
Objectives  of  the Project  .............              ..............    15
Project Description  .................................                        15
Cost Estimates ...................................   8
This report was prepared and written by Mr. Fritz Rodriguez and Mr. Nabil Shehadeh.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
Project  Execution    ..................................                                                                                19
Project  Financing   ...................................                                                                                20
Reimbursement  of  the  Government  .....................                                                                               21
Procurement   .........................................                                                                                 22
Disbursement   ........................................                                                                                 22
VI.             PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION  ...................                                                                                        23
Executing  Agency   ...................................                                                                                 23
Operation  and  Maintenance  ..........................                                                                                 24
Project Accounts and Audit .........................                                                                                    25
Reporting    ..........................................                                                                                 25
VII.               THE  BENEFICIARY  ........................................                                                                                       26
Background    .........................................                                                                                 26
Past  Performance   ...................................                                                                                 26
Organization  and  Management  ........................                                                                                 27
Management  Assistance   ....                                                   .........................                               28
Staffing    ...........................................                                                                                 28
Current  Accounting  Practices  .......................                                                                                 29
Billing and Collection .............................                                                                                   30
Audit ..............................................                                                                                    31
Insurance    ..........................................                                                                                31
VIII.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ......................................                                                                                                     31
Past  and  Present  Financial  Position  ....                                                            ............                   31
Revenues .................................                                                                                              32
Financial  Studies   ..................................                                                                                 34
Financing    Plan    .....................................                                                                              35
Future  Financial  Performance  .......................                                                                                 36
Monitoring  System  ..................................                                                                                  36
IX.             ECONOMIC  ANALYSIS   ......................................                                                                                       37
Objectives  of the Proposed  Investments  ....                                                                 .........                37
Least-Cost  Solution   ................................                                                                                 37
Project  Justification   ..............................                                                                                 38
Affordability    ......................................                                                                                 38
Environmental  Impact  of  the  Project  ....                                                            ............                   38
Institution  Building   ...............................                                                                                38
Adequacy  of EPEAL's  Pricing Policies  ....                                                               ...........                  39
Risks    ..............................................                                                                                 39
X.            AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....                                                                          .......               39



Table of Contents (Continued)
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex No.
1       Development of Water Resources in the Algiers-Sebaou Region
2       Terms  of  Reference  for  Technical  Assistance  in  Setting-Up  a
Regulatory Agency for Water Supply and Sewerage
3       Service Levels in Urban Areas in Mid-1981
4       Terms of Reference for Carrying Out a Survey of the Water Supply
and Sewerage Sector
5       Water Consumption and Sales in Algiers Wilaya, Past and Forecast
6       Population and Housing in Algiers Wilaya
7       Forecast of Water Demand and Sales in Algiers Wilaya
8       Isser Water Transfer to Keddara Reservoir
9       Detailed Cost Estimates
10       Annual Project Investments
11       Bar Chart of Construction Schedule
12       Allocation of the Loan Proceeds
13       Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
14       Organization Chart of the Ministry of Hydraulics
15       EPEAL - 1984 Organization Chart
16       Terms  of  Reference  for  Organization,  Management  and  Financial
Studies
17       EPEAL - Income Statements - 1983-1992
18       EPEAL - Table of Sources and Application of Funds - 1983-1992
19       EPEAL - Balance Sheets - 1983-1992
20       Assumptions for Financial Projections
21       Mlonitoring Indicators
22       Assumptions for Economic Evaluation of the Project
23       Calculation of the Long-Run Average Incremental Cost of Water
24       Distribution of Annual Expenses by Households in Greater Algiers
25       Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Map No.
16088      Urban Areas to be Served
16089R     General Layout of the Project Facilities






ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Since Algeria's independence in 1962, there has been an explosion of
its urban population which has grown at an annual rate of more than 5
percent.  This has been particularly acute in Algiers,  the nation's capital
and largest city, whose population has more than tripled since 1962 to its
present level of 2.1 million.  However, in spite of the rapid growth of the
population, the expansion of the cities' social infrastructure has not kept
pace with the urban growth, and public services such as water supply,
sewerage,  transport, telecommunication,  etc.  are very deficient.  The water
supply system of Greater Algiers has basically remained the same since the
early seventies and the city is experiencing  severe water  shortages.   The
unsatisfied demand has now reached 46 percent of the production.
1.02     The  Government  is  aware  of  this  situation  and  has  placed  the
improvement of water supply to Greater Algiers among its highest priorities.
Such improvement, however, would entail the transfer of water resources
located outside  the Algiers basin and costly river regulation schemes.   It
would also require better management of the services and greater participation
of consumers  in raising funds needed  for expanding the services.  It is a
difficult task for which the Government has clearly expressed its desire to
receive assistance from the Bank, whose involvement in the sector would be
fully  justified,  as  adequate  water  supply  and  sewerage  have  become
prerequisite to urban renewal and continued industrial growth of Algeria.
1.03     The proposed project involves the construction of an impounding dam
on Oued Boudouaou and another on Oued Isser, two river basins adjacent to
Greater Algiers,  to  regulate  an  annual  flow  of  160  Mm3 for urban water
supply.  Because of the present institutional weaknesses of the sector, the
project includes important software elements.  A sector study would be carried
out and another study would outline the policies and functions of a national
regulatory authority to be set up for the water supply and sewerage sector.
The project further includes management assistance to the water supply and



- 2 -
sewerage company in Greater Algiers to assist it in the development and
implementation of more effective policies and procedures.
1.04     The  total  estimated  cost  of  the  proposed  works  and  technical
assistance is US$770.5 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$392.4
million.  A Bank loan of US$290.0 million to finance partly this component is
proposed.   The execution of some of the project components has started since
early 1982 and the construction of the remaining elements  is programmed  to
begin by mid-1985.   Bids  for  this construction have already been received.
The  proposed  project  is  technically  sound  and  represent  the  least  cost
alternative for increasing water supply to Greater Algiers.  It would amount
to an investment of about US$ 219 per capita, which is acceptable considering
the obsolescence of the existing system and the need to provide at once a
large production increase.
1.05     A Bank  loan  (S-17AL)  of US$5.0 million was made  in 1980 for the
project preparation which was carried out by the Ministry of Hydraulics with
the assistance  of British  consultants.   Formulation  of  a master  plan  for
development of water resources in the Algiers/Sebaou region was also financed
under the loan.  The Bank reviewed the feasibility study of the master plan
and actively participated in the formulation of the water supply project for
Greater  Algiers,  which  was  originally  appraised  in  June  1981.   Further
processing of a loan for the project, however, was stopped, awaiting the
Government's approval of a tariff increase in Greater Algiers and more
progress by the Algiers water company in strengthening its organization and
procedures.  These issues were finally resolved and a Bank mission composed of
Messrs. Fritz Rodriguez and Nabil Shehadeh updated the project appraisal in
March 1984.
II. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Back round
2.01     Algeria is the largest country of North Africa and occupies an area
of about  2.3 million Km2 which  is divided by the Saharan Atlas  into  two
distinct regions.  North of the Atlas is a semi-arid area which encompasses a
coastal strip along the Mediterranean, the interior plains, some highlands
near the coast and the high plateaux located at about 200 kms from the coast.
More than 95 percent of the Algerian population lives in this region.   The
mean annual rainfall in the northern areas varies from 300 mm to 1,000 mm,
exceeding 600 mm only in the central and eastern coastal parts where the
richest arable land is found.  South of the Atlas is the Sahara where the mean
annual rainfall is less than 100 mm, but which is rich in mineral resources.
There are 17 major river basins in the country.



- 3 -
2.02     Administratively, Algeria is divided into 31 provinces (wilayate) 11,
160 counties  (dairate) and  704 communes.   The current  total  population is
estimated at 21 million. More than half of the population live in urban areas
located along the Mediterranean.  About 40 percent of the urban population is
concentrated  in  the  three  largest  metropolitan  areas,  Algiers,  Oran  and
Constantine, whose annual population growth rate is estimated to be more than
5 percent.  Most of the rural population resides in fixed settlements which
need to be equipped with water supply and sanitation facilities; only a small
portion  of  the  rural  population,  roaming  in  the  high  plateaux,  can  be
considered dispersed.
Water Resources
2.03     Water resources  in Algeria are generally  limited and difficult to
exploit. Most of the surface water sources are dry in summer, are of poor
quality and thus cannot readily be used for domestic and industrial supply.
In general, regulation of the rivers through costly reservoirs is required in
order to obtain economically exploitable yields.  On the other hand, the rate
of infiltration from storm runoff and surface sources is high and as a result,
groundwater is available all over the country and represents more than
two-thirds of the available water resources.  The salinity of a large portion
of  the  groundwater,  however,  is  high,  restraining  its  use  for  domestic
consumption  and  irrigation.   A  majority  of  the  cities  are  supplied  with
groundwater.
2.04     Overall, the average yield of the existing fresh water sources with
full development of storage is estimated at 7 billion m3/year, which should
be sufficient to cover the water needs for urban, industrial and agricultural
use until the early part of the next century.   Beyond  that  time,  it would
become necessary to resort to reclamation of wastewaters and later on to
desalination, to meet  the demand.   This  situation  already  exists  in  some
densely populated river basins where the present demand actually exceeds the
available resources in these basins, and for which water needs to be
transferred from adjacent basins.   The scarcity of water within those basins
and the need for high capital investments in water production and transmission
facilities may constitute serious constraints to rapid industrialization in
these regions.
2.05     In the Algiers area, groundwater is now used for both urban supply
and irrigation.   The present water demand in this area exceeds the potential
capacity of the groundwater aquifer which is already over-exploited.
Consequently, the groundwater level is lowering rapidly, with the possible
danger of sea water intrusion into the aquifer and the subsequent degradation
1/ Recent proposals have been made by the Government to establish 48 wilayate.



- 4 -
of the water quality.   To satisfy the growing demand, surface water sources
must be developed to complement the groundwater production.  The preparation
of a master plan of water resources in the Algiers-Sebaou region (see Map
16089R) was financed under Loan S-17AL.   An outline of the master plan is
presented in Annex 1.
Sector Organization
2.06     The Ministry of Hydraulics  (established  in 1977,  incorporating  the
former Secretariat of Hydraulics set up in 1970) is responsible for the
development and conservation of the country's water resources and the planning
and  construction  of  water  supply  and  sewer  systems.   Thirteen  regional
authorities, recently created, operate and maintain water supply and sewerage
facilities in large urban areas; in the rest of the country, municipal
entities are responsible for water production and distribution and for sewage
collection in their municipalities.
2.07     The Government's  objective  is  to  decentralize  the management  and
operations  of  water  supply and  sewerage,  leaving  such  responsibility  to
regional enterprises set up to provide services in one or more adjacent river
basins.   A first experience with a regional  enterprise was made  with  the
creation of a wilaya authority, the "Soci6te des Eaux de l'Agglom6ration
d'Alger - SEDAL", which provided water supply and sewerage services in Greater
Algiers.   SEDAL was  set up as part  of  the Bank's  first  operation  in the
sector, the Algiers Sewerage Project (Loan 1545-AL).  The SEDAL experience was
conclusive and the Government in May 1983 established twelve more enterprises,
based on SEDAL's organization  as  a model.   At  the  same  time,  SEDAL  was
replaced by a regional authority, "Entreprise de Production, de Gestion et de
Distribution d'Eau d'Alger - E.P.E.AL.".
2.08     In conjunction with the sector reorganization, the Government issued
a Water Code (Law No. 83-17 of July 16, 1983), to regulate the allocation and
collection of water resources, and to set out financial policies for the
sector.   In addition  to dealing with ownership,  concession and use of the
water resources, the Water Code prescribes that water utilities should be
managed as commercial enterprises and should implement the tariffs necessary
to make them financially self-supporting.  It also recommends that tariffs for
industrial and commercial usage be set sufficiently high to encourage economic
use of water.
2.09     To coordinate the operations of the regional authorities and to some
extent arrive at cross-subsidizing financial resources in the sector, the
Ministry of Hydraulics is considering the setting up of a national regulatory
agency,  which  would  function under  this Ministry's authority.   The agency
would assist the Ministry in planning water supply and sewerage investments in
the country and in establishing the level of Government contributions to the
regional authorities.   It would  also  formulate  detailed  policies  for  the
sector and oversee the operations of the regional authorities.  The Ministry
of Hydraulics would request the assistance of organization consultants for
establishing the functions and a work agenda for the national agency.  Terms



- 5 -
of reference for this assistance, which has been included in the project, are
given in Annex 2.  During negotiations, assurances were obta-ined that, not
later than January 1, 1986, consultants for the organization assistance will
be retained in accordance with the Bank Group Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants, and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Service Levels
2.10     Presently, the existing water supply and sewerage systems in most of
the cities are obsolete and over-loaded.  Though more than 80 percent of the
urban population is provided with direct water service lines, only a third of
this  population  can be  considered  well  served.   Preliminary  results  of a
survey of water supply and sanitation services in 36 cities with populations
ranging from 500,000 to 2,000 are shown in Annex 3.  The overall per capita
consumption varies widely from 286 liters/day in El Golea in the central part
of Algeria to 20 liters/day in Chegoun in the Kabylie Mountains, but in most
cases is considered inadequate.  The per capita allowance is further greatly
reduced by the high volume of unaccounted-for water which  in most  of the
cities reaches around 50 percent of the production.  In general, water supply
in the cities is intermittent and available not more than 12 hours a day.
2.11     About 70 percent of the urban population is connected to public sewer
networks which in most cases are combined systems evacuating also stormwater
runoff.  Wastewaters in the cities are in most cases discharged untreated into
the Mediterranean or rivers.   About  70 percent of the  rural  locations  are
provided with public water supply systems and 60 percent of them have sewer
systems. About 40 percent of the rural population has direct access to public
water supply networks; only 25 percent to sewerage.
Constraints to Sector Development
2.12     Until recently, the lack of sound financial policies in the sector
was certainly a major constraint to its accelerated development.   In general,
all over the country, water tariffs have remained low during the last decade.
The municipalities, which were responsible for water supply services, were
reluctant to implement effective tariffs which would have encouraged consumers
to economize on their water use. This situation has lasted until now, because
past investments in water supply and sewerage were financed by Government
grants  to  the  municipalities.   In  addition,  the  municipal  water  supply
agencies in most cases had delayed payment for their water purchases from bulk
suppliers  like SEDAL and SONADE  2/.  As water demand has  been  increasing
rapidly, the bulk suppliers in turn had been forced to make more lnvestments
in  production  facilities,  in  spite  of  the  municipalities'  large  overdue
payments to them.
2.13     Administrative burden has also been another constraint to the sector
development.   The  Ministry  of  Hydraulics,  which  is  responsible  for  the
construction of all major water supply and sewerage facilities, has been
taking unusually long delays in implementing its work programs.  In
2/  Soci6t6 Nationale de Distribution d'Eau Potable et Industrielle.



- 6 -
particular, bidding of the works has been long delayed, which has resulted in
some cases in cost overruns.  Though procurement regulations and schedules are
well defined in codes, they have not been respected in most cases.  The Bank
has undertaken various project implementation reviews with the Government, to
determine how the procurement process and project execution can be streamlined.
2.14     Further,  the  number  of engineers  and administrative  staff  in the
sector is very limited.  Other sectors offer better salaries and benefits and
young professionals tend to join them instead of the water supply sector.  To
lessen  this  constraint,  the  Ministry  of  Hydraulics  created  in  1974  a
specialized school, the "Institut d'Hydrotechnique et de Bonification - IHB".
But, so far, the Institut has produced few graduates.
2.15     As part  of  the proposed project,  the Ministry of Hydraulics  will
carry out a sector study which among other things will try to diagnose the
causes for the slowness of the sector development.   Terms of reference  for
this study are outlined in Annex 4.  Consultants would assist the Ministry of
Hydraulics in carrying out the sector study and would be retained in
accordance with  the Bank Group Guidelines  for  the Use of Consultants, and
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, not later than July 1, 1985.
Investment Program in the Sector
2.16     The  second  Four-Year  Investment  Plan  (1974-77)  included  DA  4.0
billion (US$920 million) or about DA 240.0 (US$55.2) per capita for water
supply and sewerage works.   About  DA 1.0 billion  (US$230 million)  of  this
amount was to complete works initiated during the previous investment plan
(1970-73).   These  investments  accounted  for about  4  percent  of  the  total
capital  expenditures  in  the public  sector.   The selection of communities,
where investments were made, was based on the population growth rate,
population density, percentage of population served, possibility of improving
and expanding services and reducing water losses.  With a few exceptions,  so
far, all projects in the water supply and sewerage sector have been financed
100  percent  by  Government  grants,  and  the  municipal  authorities   have
practically no debt.
2.17     It is estimated that, during the first Five-Year Plan (1980-1984),
investments in the order of DA 6.0 billion (US$1.3 billion) or about DA 300
(US$62.5)  per capita,  would be made in the sector.   During the forthcoming
Five-Year Plan (1985-1989), the Ministry of Hydraulics is proposing to invest
DA 45.0 billion (US$9.4 billion) in the hydraulic sector, 50 percent of which
in water supply and sewerage works.   The projected  substantial  increase  of
investments during the next plan (almost four times the level of investments
during the preceding plan in current prices) demonstrates the Government's
commitment to improving rapidly the conditions and service levels in the
sector.



- 7-
Previous Bank Loans in the Sector
2.18     The Bank became involved in the sector in 1978 when the first loan
(1545-AL,  US$82.0 million) was made  for  the  Algiers  Sewerage  Project,  to
finance the construction of sewer interceptors and a sewage treatment plant in
Greater Algiers,  and management and engineering  studies  in  the  cities  of
Algiers, Constantine and Oran.  One of the objectives of this project was to
strengthen the sector organization in Greater Algiers through the creation of
a regional water  supply and sewerage  authority  (SEDAL).   In spite of some
delays in implementing agreed policies, the SEDAL experience has been good, as
proved by recent Government decision to set up similar authorities in the rest
of the country.  The Algiers Sewerage Project provided for the carrying out of
a study of SEDAL's organization, management, tariffs and financial structure.
The study was originally scheduled to be completed in September 1979 and the
recommendations regarding SEDAL's financial policies and performance were to
be implemented as of 1980.  This schedule, however, was not met and the study
was  completed  only in March  1981.   EPEAL,  which has succeeded  SEDAL,  has
started to implement the new organization since January 1982.
2.19     Meanwhile, EPEAL's  financial  position has remained good,  following
the implementation of a 67 percent tariff increase which was effected under
the Algiers Sewerage Project.  As a start towards the implementation of new
financial policies for EPEAL, the Government has recently approved a 41
percent increase of the water rates  in Greater Algiers.   Other steps  that
should be taken in the implementation of the financial policies would be set
out in the agreement for the proposed project.
2.20     The execution of the works included in the Algiers Sewerage Project,
after some initial delays, has been progressing recently extremely well; works
are to be completed by the end of 1987.  The initial delays have been due to
various causes such as the failure to inscribe the project in the national
budget and to appoint consultants, rethinking of the project concept, delays
in the review and approval of bidding documents and in the procurement
process.   As  of  May  1,  1984,  US$11.3  million  was  disbursed  and  loan
disbursements are forecast to continue to pick up rapidly with the recent
award of the remaining contracts under the project and the acceleration of the
execution of the works.
2.21     The  studies  in  Constantine  were  completed  in 1982 and a project
defined  for  this  city;  its construction  is scheduled  to start  soon.   The
studies in Oran are still under way.   The closing date of Loan 1545-AL was
extended for a year to December 31, 1984 and would have to be extended further
to allow full disbursement of the loan.
2.22     EPEAL's  prime  responsibility  is to provide water supply services,
whose quality directly affects the public perception of its performance.   As
already mentioned, these services are at present rather deficient, because of
insufficient production.  To help improve them, the Bank in 1980 made a loan
of US$5.0 million (S-17AL) to finance water supply studies in Greater



- 8 -
Algiers.  As in the case of Loan 1545-AL. the selection process of consultants
was  delayed  and  the  studies  started  in  April  1981,  a year  later  than
originally scheduled in the loan agreement.  The original closing date of the
loan has been extended to December 31, 1984, but no further extension of the
closing date would be necessary, as the studies are practically completed.  As
of May 1, 1984, US$2.6 million has been disbursed and an additional US$1.4
million would be disbursed by the end of the year.  The original cost of the
studies has been substantially decreased due to the appreciation of the US$
vis-a--vis other currencies,  The unused balance of the loan (US$1.0 million)
would be cancelled.  The proposed project is based on the recommendations of
these studies.
Bank's Objectives for the Sector
2.23     The Banik role and sector  lending strategy  are  essentially  geared
towards assisting the Government in strengthening its project implementation
capacity and establishing a strong institutional framework for the sector.
The existing Bank-financed projects have been implemented with some delays in
the schedule of the appraisal reports, and the Bank has reviewed with the
Government the causes for such delays and suggested some actions, such as a
project inscription in the budget prior to its appraisal, packaging of works
in single contracts, decentralization of project construction supervision,
which  should   improve   project   implementation  performance.    The  Bank's
involvement in the sector would be particularly effective in providing the
necessary expertise in institution building, policy formulation and staff
training.   It is also expected that the Bank's association with the sector
development  would  help  to  enhance  the  standing  of  the  new  regional
authorities, strengthen  their  independence and ensure the implementation of
financial policies that could lead to the finiancial viability of the sector.
III, THE PROJECT AREA
General Features
3.01     Algiers  WLlaya,  with  a  current  population  of  2.8  million,  is
Algeria's most populated provInce.   It is also the most urbanized with 2.5
million people or almost 90 percent of the total population living in urban
locatiors.   About  84  percent  of  the  urban  population  is  concentrated  in
Algiers City, the nation's capital, and the political, economic and cultural
center of Algeria.  Algiers City is divided into 5 dairates (boroughs) and 13
communes  (wards).   (See Map  16088).   Greater Algiers,  which  is made up of
Algiers City and 10 more communes, extends along the Mediterranean coast from
the Sahel Hills to the Mitidja Plain.  Four more communes in Algiers Wilaya
are not administratively integrated in the metropolitan area.  But their total
population accounts for less than 3 percent of the urban population in the
wilaya. Water supply and sewerage services in Greater Algiers are provided by
EPEAL.



- 9 -
3.02     A relatively mild climate prevails in Greater Algiers,  though high
temperatures  are occasionally recorded in summer.   The mean annual rainfall
varies from 580 mm to 760 mm, but is unevenly distributed through the year.
Most of the rainfall occurs during the months of October through March, while
it is practically dry from June through August.  Rainstorms of high intensity
(more than 100 mm per hour) and duration (more than one hour) often occur
during the rainy season.  Algiers City's configuration is rugged, making both
the installation and operation of a public water supply system very costly.
East of the city the land is flatter.  But at the same time, convenient sites
for service reservoirs cannot be found and expensive elevated tanks must be
built.
Water Production Facilities
3.03     Potable water in Algiers Wilaya comes from some 145 wells sunk in the
Mitidja and Sahel Plains.  The wells are incorporated into 12 main well fields
known as: Mazafran I, Mazafran  II,  Baraki,  Haouch Felit,  Oued Adda,  Trois
Caves, Haouch Bel-Abbes, Boureah, Thenia, Zemmouri, BirKhadem/Birmandreis and
Hamiz.  The well fields are owned and managed by EPEAL.  They account for more
than 96 percent of the total water production in the Wilaya.  The remaining
production comes from isolated wells owned by municipalities located outside
of Greater Algiers.   Total water production in 1983 averaged 412,000 m3/day,
of which about 83 percent came from the three main fields of Mazafran I,
Mazafran  II and Baraki.   With the exception of the Mazafran and Hamiz Well
Fields, which are located respectively some 40 kms. west and east of Algiers
City, all the other fields are situated within the limits of Greater Algiers,
in the southern part of the metropolitan area (see Map IBRD No. 16089R).
3.04     The groundwater aquifers have been overexploited for some time and as
a result, the water level in the wells has been lowering at an average rate of
0.40 m/year.  The increasing water heads in the well fields collection systems
~have resulted in decreasing production of the existing wells. To maintain the
production level, it has been necessary to increase the number of wells or to
equip the existing ones with more powerful pumping equipment. The Mazafran II
Well Field, which accounts for 27 percent of the total available water
production, was put in operation in July 1979. Water from all the well fields
is of good quality and only requires normal disinfection.
Conveyance System
3.05     Most of the production of the three main well  fields  (Mazafran  I,
Mazafran II and Baraki) is conveyed to a central pumping station (El Harrach)
from where water is boosted to the elevated areas of Greater Algiers.  Water
production  in the other well fields is consumed locally.   Two pipelines, a
900-mm and a 800-mm concrete, convey water from the Mazafran Well Fields to
the  El Harrach  Pumping  Station.   In  addition,  from Mazafran  I a  600-mm
pipeline  supplies  water  to the western  part  of  Greater  Algiers.   Another
600-mm pipeline, connected to the Mazafran-El Harrach Main, provides water to
the elevated central areas of Algiers City.   The Baraki Well Field transits



- 10 -
its production through four pipelines (a 1,000-mm, a 900-mm, a 700-mm and a
400-mm) to the El Harrach Pumping Station.
3.06     With the exception of the 600-mm pipeline serving the western areas
of Greater Algiers, water flow in the conveyance system is boosted by the well
pumps and four pumping stations.  Twenty-three motor pumps with a total power
of  13,600  HP  are  in  operation  in  El  Harrach  Pumping  Station.   Some
300,000 m3  are  transited  daily  through  this  station  which  was  recently
renovated and can provide many additional years of service.  In general, the
existing conveyance system is in good condition, though bursting of the
Mazafran II Pipeline has in the past occurred at various times, because of
construction faults in the pipe laying.   Recently,  the pipe foundations were
reinforced in some sections of the pipeline.
Existing Distribution Network
3.07     Because  of  the  rugged  configuration  of  Algiers  City,  the  water
distribution network is one of  the most  complex and expensive  to operate.
Besides, the network is old and overloaded, as it was conceived to serve less
than one-fourth  of  the  current  population.   The  distribution  network  is
divided into various pressure zones, with elevations varying from 0 along the
coast to 400 m in the Sahel  Hills,  and  is made up of cast-iron pipes of
diameters varying  from 100-mm to 600-mm.   The network functions by gravity
only in a narrow strip along the coast.  As ground elevations further inland
increase  rapidly,  water  must  be  boosted  to  reach  the service areas.   In
addition  to  the  El  Harrach  Station,  five   main  booster  pumping  stations
~-m-aintain water flows and pressures  in  the distribution network.  Available
service storage in the network amounts to 130,000 m3 or about 35 percent of
the average daily consumption, which is considered adequate.
3.08     The existing water distribution network needs to be restructured and
expanded to provide better continuous service to the consumers.  In addition,
a leak detection and repair program should be undertaken without delay to
reduce water losses in the network, which are currently estimated at 14
percent of production.  Preparation of a master plan for water distribution in
Greater Algiers, which was partly financed under Loan S-17AL, was completed
recently.  A first construction stage of the plan is included in the proposed
project and is expected to be completed at the end of 1989, by the time new
production facilities, which are also included in the proposed project, would
become operational.
Existing Sewerage
3.09     The 13 communes of Algiers City are served by a combined sewer system
in which both wastewaters from households and industries, and stormwater
runoff are collected and evacuated in the same conduits.   Other districts of
Greater Algiers, specially the industrial area, are equipped with separate
sewer systems where wastewaters and runoff are collected and drained in
different conduits.  Most of the water customers are connected to the sewer



- 11 -
network and about 80 percent of water supplied to domestic consumers returns
to the sewers.  The existing sewer systems are relatively in good condition.
There are 8 main sewage collectors, of which all but three are canalized
through their entire  length in close channels.  The majority of industries in
the El Harrach River basin use dry type processes requiring little water.
Some industries of cellulose, barm and soap, however, use large individual
volumes of water and discharge strong wastewaters.
3.10     Presently,  wastewater  generated  in  Greater  Algiers  is  discharged
without treatment into the Algiers Bay and El Harrach River whose allowable
pollutional loading is very limited.  It is estimated that the amount of waste
matters  actually  poured  into  the  river  is  20  times  greater  than  its
permissible loading.  As a result, waters along the coast and in El Harrach
River are highly polluted and malodorous.  The emission of hydrogen sulphide,
characteristic of anaerobic decomposition in the river, can be detected a half
mile away.   Black sludge deposits and bubbles of decomposition gases can be
observed along El Harrach River banks, which are densely populated with
low-income people who now face increasingly unpleasant living conditions, as
well as serious health risks.
3.11       In addition, potentially valuable vacant land at the river mouth is
presently unused, because of the pollution problems.  Recreational and fishing
activities have many years ago ceased along the coast and in the river.   The
Algiers Sewerage Project, which is partly financed by the Bank (Loan 1545-AL,
US$82.0 million) and whose objective is to redress environmental conditions in
the El Harrach Basin, is currently under construction.
IV. DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS
Water Consumption
4.01     Current  available  water  production  for  the  Algiers  Wilaya  is
estimated  at  150.2  Mm3/year,  which  is  about  46  percent  lower  than  the
calculated demand of  219.9 Mm3/year.   No production  increase  is  foreseen,
until the proposed project becomes operational at the end of 1988, by which
time the potential  annual  demand  would  be  about  265  Mm3.   Thus,  as  the
demand will continue to exceed the available supply, it will be necessary to
continue to ration out water, which in some areas is already served only a few
hours a day.  Of the current total production,  96 percent or 144.2 Mm3/year
come from EPEAL's well  fields.   The rest  is generated at  individual  wells
operated by municipalities located outside the Greater Algiers area.
4.02     The evolution of water consumption and sales in Algiers Wilaya during
the last four years is shown in Annex 5.  Present per capita consumption for
all usages averages only 108 liters/day, which is considered low for a city of
the size and composition of Algiers.  Since the demand was not met in recent
years,  the potential  per capita consumption can only be estimated.   In the



- 12 -
coming years, the available per capita consumption will continue to decrease,
as the population increases, while production remains at the 1983 level.
About 98 percent of the urban population in the Algiers Wilaya receives direct
water supply services through some 95,000 service lines.  Total water sales in
the wilaya in 1983 reached 94.6 Mm3/year, resulting in about 37 percent  of
the production unaccounted-for.
Composition of the Demand
4.03     A breakdown of water consumed in Greater Algiers in 1983 apportions
the different uses as follows:
Domestic                        58.8
Public                          15.8
Industrial                      10.6
Commercial                      10.0
Others                           4.8
All Uses                       100.0
Essentially, water consumed in Greater Algiers is for domestic and public uses
which account for almost 75 percent of total consumption.  The commercial and
industrial sector accounts for slightly more than 20 percent of the total
consumption.   Other  uses  correspond  to  water  consumed  in  street washing,
public gardens, etc.
Population Forecast
4.04     Results of the 1966 and 1977 census in Algiers Wilaya are shown in
Annex 6.  Between 1966 and 1977 the Algiers Wilaya's population grew at an
average annual rate of 5 percent.   The rate of population growth in Algiers
City was, however, less (about 4.6 percent), while it remained at a high of
6.5 percent  in the rest of  the wilaya.   A  similar  trend  is  expected  to
continue  in the future,  as  the population  in Greater Algiers  seems  to be
inflecting towards its saturation level.  Meanwhile,  it is expected that the
population in the suburban areas will continue to grow much faster than in the
rest of the country, since the metropolitan area will remain an attractive
pole for the population of a large number of medium and small cities in the
adiacent wilayate.
4.05     Estimated mid-year urban populations in Algiers Wilaya in the years
1985 through 2000 are given in Annex 5.  They have been estimated assuming
that the population growth would average 4.1 percent in the eighties and then
3.6 percent in the nineties.  Under the Government-approved urbanization plan
for Greater Algiers, most urban development would continue to take place irn
the eastern part of the wilaya, on the right bank of El Harrach River.  The
1977 census recorded 288,400 households in Algiers Wilaya, resulting in an
average  occupancy  of  6.8 persons  per household.   This  occupancy  level  is
expected to remain unchanged during the next ten years.



- 13 -
Projected Water Consumption
4.06     Because of the current water shortage in Greater Algiers, it has not
been possible to use the present water sales to estimate the per capita
consumption and future water requirements, as the potential demand largely
exceeds available  supply.   To estimate  future  water  demands,  it  has  been
necessary to assume an average per capita water consumption which has been
determined on the basis of levels of water consumption in other north African
capital cities 3/, where climatic and social conditions are similar to those
in  Greater  Algiers.   It  has  been  further  assumed  that  the  per  capita
consumption will increase slowly through the years, as the country's economy
continues to grow.
4.07     Forecast water consumption up to the year 2000 is shown in column 8
of Annex 5 and illustrated in Annex 7.  It is anticipated that by early 1989
the proposed project would become operational and that the demand would be met
fully.   It is further assumed that by that year the entire urban population
would be connected to the water network and that unaccounted-for water would
slowly  decrease  to  level  at  about  25  percent  by  1995.   Water sales  are
projected to increase by 90 percent in 1989 and then to continue to rise at an
annual growth rate of about 5 percent.  Average per capita water usage is
forecast to increase  to 49.1 m3/year by 1995.   The maximum day demand  is
calculated to be about 20 percent higher than the yearly average demand.  The
maximum hour demand is expected to exceed by 70 percent the yearly average
demand. A minimum residual pressure of 3 bars (43.5 psi) would be maintained
in the distribution network.
V. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
Project Genesis and Concept
5.01     In 1980,  the Bank made a loan of US$5.0 million  (S-17AL)  to the
Government of Algeria to partly finance a Water Supply Engineering Project
which covered inter alia: (i) the assessment of urban, industrial and
agricultural water needs in Greater Algiers and surrounding areas; (ii) the
preparation  of  a  master  plan  for  the  use  of  water  resources  in  the
Mitidja/Isser/Sebaou region; (iii) the detailed design and preparation of
tender documents for a first construction stage of water production facilities
for the Algiers Conurbation; and (iv) the preparation of a master plan of
potable water distribution in Greater Algiers, and the detailed design and
tender documents for a first construction phase of this plan.  The Bank was
concerned with the evident water shortage in Algeria's largest urban area and
3/ Average per capita water consumption in the metropolitan area of Tunis is
about 70 m3/year; 53 m3/year in the Rabat-Casablanca Conurbation.



- 14 -
the Government's apparent lack of technical capability to eliminate such
shortage.   The  Engineering  Project  was  recently  completed  and  bids  for
construction of the first phase of production and distribution facilities in
Greater Algiers were received at the end of March 1983.
5.02     Greater Algiers is now served by groundwater whose current production
has already exceeded the safe yield of the aquifer and cannot be increased to
meet the demand.  There is no other major aquifer in the area and the next
source of supply would have  to be surface water.  Various alternatives of
surface water have been identified and evaluated  in previous  studies.   One
alternative would be to divert water from Oued Mazafran into a reservoir
located at Douera,  west  of Algiers  City  (see Map  No.  16089).   A  second
alternative would consist of building an impounding dam on Oued El Harrach at
Rocher des Pigeons.  A third one would be to impound waters of three oueds,
Isser, Boudouaou and Hamiz, in a reservoir located at Keddara, east of Algiers
City.
5.03     An economic comparison of the three schemes showed that the Keddara
System is the least-cost alternative to increase potable water production to
Greater Algiers and has been integrated as such in the master plan.   The
Keddara System involves the construction of a 160-Mm3 impounding reservoir
(Keddara) on Oued Boudouaou to store additional raw waters from Oueds Isser
and Hamiz, followed by treatment and finished water conveyance to Greater
Algiers.  To that end, excess water from an existing dam (Hamiz) and part of
the   flow  of  Oued   Isser   (the  second  most   important   oued   in  the
Sebaou/Isser/Mitidja Valley) would be diverted and transferred to the Keddara
Reservoir, from which raw water would be drawn and treated in a plant to be
built near the town of Boudouaou.   The Keddara Dam and  the  Hamiz-Keddara
Tunnel are now under construction.  Detailed design and bidding of the other
components of the Keddara System have been completed recently and their
construction is expected to start by mid-1985.
5.04     There are several ways that water from Oued Isser can be diverted and
transferred to the Keddara Reservoir.   Annex 8 outlines  the  technical  and
economic  evaluation  of  the  feasible  alternatives  for  this  transfer.  The
conclusion of the evaluation is that the least-cost alternative would be to
build a small impounding dam (18 Mm3) on Oued Isser at Beni Amrane and to
pump the diverted waters directly to the Keddara Reservoir (see Map 16089R).
5.05     On the basis of 40 years of stream flow records,  the regulated flow
of  Boudouaou  River  at Keddara  Dam would  be  about  20 Mm3/year,  while an
average flow of 30 Mm3/year would be diverted  from the Hamiz Reservoir  to
the Keddara Dam.  The transfer from Oued Isser would supply an average 110
Mm3/year.  In total,  the yearly regulated flow by the Keddara Dam would be
160 Mm3.  Such an increase in raw water production would be sufficient to
meet the demand up to 1993.  Beyond that year, a new water supply source,
which is foreseen to come from Oued Sebaou located further east to Algiers,
should be put in operation.
5.06     The proposed project, which covers the construction of  the Keddara
System and other water transmission and distribution works in Greater Algiers,



- 15 -
stems from the studies included in the Water Supply Engineering Project (Loan
S-17AL) and from previous studies carried out by the Ministry of Hydraulics
and the Ministry of Industry and Energy (SONATRACH) for the development and
use of the country's water resources and in particular for an increase of
water supply to Greater Algiers.  The feasibility study of the Keddara System
was carried out by an American consulting firm, Hydrotechnic Corporation.  The
design of the Keddara Dam was carried out by a specialized Swiss consulting
firm and later verified by a specialized Portuguese engineering consulting
firm (KOBA associated with COYNE ET BELLIER, France), which also prepared the
detailed construction drawings.  The smaller Beni Amrane Dam was designed by
British experts (Binnie & Partners).  The concept and design of the dams were
reviewed by a panel of experienced and competent dams' experts of the Ministry
of Hydraulics  acceptable  to  the  Bank.   Normal  and  acceptable  precautions
against earthquakes have been taken into account in the design of the dams.
Objectives of the Project
5.07     The  objectives  of  the  proposed  project  are  to  increase  water
production to the level required to meet the unsatisfied demand and future
demand up to 1993 (which is forecast to reach 308 Mm3 in that year) and to
expand  and  improve  water  distribution  in  Greater  Algiers.   The  existing
distribution network is old, and a large volume of water distributed is now
lost through leaks in the system.  Under the proposed project, the secondary
distribution network would be renovated and an extended program of leak
detection and repairs would be executed, in order to reduce the percentage of
unaccounted-for water to not more than 25 percent by 1995.
5.08     Under  the  Algiers  Sewerage  Project  (Loan  1545-AL),  management
assistance was provided to EPEAL for defining and outlining its organizational
structure, administrative procedures and financial objectives.  The execution
of this assistance was successful and has led to major improvements of EPEAL's
operations.  Meanwhile,  the field of EPEAL's activities has been expanded to
cover all the wilaya of Algiers and consequently its organization needs to be
modified  to  suit  its  new  responsibility.   The  proposed  project  includes
technical assistance for updating the previous management and financial
studies and for helping EPEAL implement the resulting recommendations (para.
7.10).
Project Description
5.09     The project is composed of two parts and includes:
PART I
(i) the construction of an impounding dam on Oued Boudouaou
(Keddara Dam) and a tunnel to transfer excess waters of the
Hamiz Reservoir into the Keddara Reservoir (para. 5.10); and
(ii) the supply of mechanical and auscultation equipment for the
Keddara Dam.



- 16 -
PART II
(a) the construction of a diversion dam on Oued Isser at Beni
Amrane, pumping facilities and a conveyance main (including
two  tunnels)  to  transfer  waters  to  the  Keddara  Reservoir
(para. 5.11);
(b) the construction of a water treatment plant at Boudouaou, with
an original capacity of 450,000 m3/day (para. 5.12);
(c) the laying of a transmission pipeline between the Keddara
Reservoir and the Boudouaou Treatment Plant;
(d) the installation of a transmission pipeline to convey finished
water to Greater Algiers (para. 5.12);
(e)  the  laying  of  two  primary  distribution  mains  and  the
construction of three new reservoirs and related pumping
stations (para. 5.13);
(f) the supply of master and domestic water meters and operational
equipment for EPEAL (para. 5.15);
(g)  a  leak  detection  and  repair  program  aiming  at  reducing
unaccounted-for water from a present 38 percent of water
production to about 30 percent by 1990 (para. 5.15);
(h) technical assistance to EPEAL in reviewing and implementing
its organizational structures and management and financial
procedures (para. 7.10); and
(i) technical assistance to the Ministry of Hydraulics in carrying
out a sector survey and establishing a national agency for the
regulation and supervision of  the regional water supply and
sewerage authorities (paras. 2.09 and 2.15).
5.10     A general layout of  the proposed  facilities  is shown on Map  IBRD
No. 16089R.   The Keddara Dam would be a rock embankment, with a central core
of clay.  It would have a height of 108-m at the lowest point and would be
486-m long at the crest.   A seal gallery of 550-m long would be built along
the dam to put in place an impervious core and cut-off wall in the
foundations.  The dam would incorporate a 45-m wide surface spillway to divert
flow into a channel located at the embankment toe.  A tower intake, equipped
with gates allowing to draft water at three different elevations in the
reservoir, would be built on the left bank of the oued.  The Keddara Reservoir
would submerge a 9-Km stretch of Route No. 29 and about 7 Kms of a high
voltage electric line, which would be relocated under the project.   Some 10
families, whose settlement was in the Keddara Reservoir, have been relocated.



- 17 -
5.11     Like the Keddara Dam, the Beni Amrane would be a rock-fill dam with
an  impervious  element.   Its capacity would be, however,  only 18 Dm3.  The
dam would be 38-m high and 10-m wide at the crest, and would contain a total
3
amount of 655,000 m  of earth and rock fill.  The dam would be equipped of a
side-channel spillway which would be located in a concrete structure
containing an outlet and a number of floodgates mounted on the river bottom,
to allow regular cleaning of the reservoir.   The Oued Isser waters carry a
high load of suspended solids (14 g./liter) and the Beni Amrane Reservoir
would serve as a sedimentation basin prior to the pumping of the water to the
Keddara Dam.   The Beni Amrane Reservoir, however, would have to be flushed
regularly, specially at times of flood, to impede quick silting of the
reservoir.   Only two families, whose properties are within the limits of the
Beni Amrane Reservoir, would need to be relocated.
5.12     From the Beni Amrane Reservoir, the water would be drawn to a pumping
station which would  transfer  it through a 2-m pipeline over 28 kms to the
Keddara Reservoir.  Two sections of the conveyance system, totaling 1.75 kms,
would be built in tunnel.  The Keddara Reservoir would supply raw water to the
Boudouaou Treatment Plant located some 8 kms downstream the dam.  The plant
would be a conventional one and would include standard processes, such as
sedimentation, filtration and disinfection. A 2-m pipeline, 32-km long, would
convey the treated water to the city of Algiers.
5.13     The present way of feeding  the existing pressure zones in Greater
Algiers  would  basically  remain  unchanged.   Two  new  distribution  centers,
however,  would be established at Gu6 de Constantine and Beaulieu.   The new
production facilities would be connected to the existing El Harrach Pumping
Station and to the new distribution centers, from where water would be
conveyed to the service reservoirs through the existing transmission mains and
two new primary mains.   The first would connect the distribution center of
Beaulieu to the pumping station of Telemy and would serve the low level
districts  of  Algiers.    The  second  main  would  convey  water  from  the
distribution center of Gue de Constantine to a new reservoir at Sidi Garidi
and would serve the high level districts located west to Algiers.  Three new
storage tanks would be built respectively at Gu6 de Constantine (20,000 mi3),
Sidi Garidi (25,000 m3) and Beaulieu (40,000 M3).
5.14     The existing main production facilities are located west to Greater
Algiers and connected to the El Harrach Pumping Station.   The new production
would  be  coming from the east.   Under the proposed project,  the existing
production facilities would first serve the western part of Greater Algiers,
after which any excess would be conveyed to the El Harrach Pumping Station.
The new production facilities would serve the eastern part where most urban
development is currently taking place.
5.15     The objectives of items 5.09 (f) and (g) of Part B of the project are
to arrive at establishing a better estimate of the levels of water production
and consumption in the Algiers Conurbation and to reduce unaccounted-for
water.  A better knowledge of these levels would result in a more efficient



- 18 -
management  of  the  existing  water  supply  network  and  the  future  Keddara
System.  An appreciable volume  of water  (17 Mm3/year),  which  is  actually
lost through leaks in the network, could be recuperated and used to somewhat
alleviate the water shortages that are expected to be felt in Greater Algiers
until the completion of the proposed project.  EPEAL is committed to reduce by
1990 the amount of unaccounted-for water to 30% of production and agreement
was reached on an action program.
Cost Estimates
5.16     The  estimated  total  cost  of  the  project  is  DA  3,698.2  million
(US$770.5 million) with a foreign exchange component of  DA 1,883.0 million
(US$392.4 million) or 50.9 percent of the total cost.  A summary of the cost
estimates follows. Detailed cost estimates and annual project investments for
Parts I and II are given in Annexes 9 and 10.
Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total    %
Item              ----- DA Million ------    ---- US$ Million ----
Keddara Dam and Hami7-
Keddara Tunnel              351.6    231.8    583.4       73.2    48.3   121.5   19.7
Mechanical and
Auscultation Equipment        3.2      11.7     14.9       0.7      2.4      3.1    0.5
Beni Amrane Dam              184.0    122.7    306.7       38.3    25.6    63.9   10.3
Beni Amrane Pumping
Station                      20.2     54.6      74.8       4.2    11.4    15.6    2.5
Raw Water Pipelines          107.0    160.4    267.4       22.2    33.4    55.6    9.0
Boudouaou Treatment Plant  129.2    145.7    274.9         26.9    30.4    57.3    9.3
Filtered Water Pipeline    127.1    190.7    317.8         26.5    39.7    66.2   10.7
Storage Tanks and
Pumping Stations            107.5    107.6    215.1       22.4    22.4    44.8    7.3
Distribution Network         195.7    212.0    407.7       40.8    44.1    84.9   13.8
Instrumentation                0.8      4.8       5.6       0.2      1.0      1.2    0.2
Supply of Water Meters         0.9       1.0      1.9       0.2      0.2      0.4    0.1
Leak Detection Program         0.9       1.0      1.9       0.2      0.2      0.4    0.1
1,228.1  1,244.0  2,472.1    255.8   259.1   514.9   83.5



- 19 -
Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total    %
Item              ----- DA Million ----       ---- US$ Million ----
Physical Contingencies      193.6    193.1    386.7       40.3    40.3    80.6   13.1
Construction Supervision    41.9       46.7      88.6      8.8      9.7    18.5    3.0
Technical Assistance
to EPEAL                     1.4       3.4      4.8       0.3      0.7     1.0    0.2
Technical Assistance
to the Ministry of
Hydraulics                   1.9       4.3       6.2      0.4      0.9     1.3    0.2
Total Cost
(March 1984 Prices) 1,466.9 1,491.5  2,958.4    305.6   310.7   616.3  100.0
Price Escalation            347.8    388.6    736.4       72.5    81.0   153.5   24.9
Front End Fee                 -         3.4       3.4      -        0.7     0.7    0.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST        1,814.7  1,883.5  3,698.2    378.1   392.4   770.5  125.0
(Current Prices)
%                    49.1      50.9    100.0      49.1    50.9   100.0
5.17     The cost estimates are based on actual bids for construction of the
project components, and include customs duties on imported equipment and
materials,  and  other  taxes  on sales and services.   To the bid prices,  a
15 percent allowance has been added for physical contingencies.   Construction
supervision of the works is estimated to account for about 3 percent of the
project costs.  To provide for price escalation during the project execution,
local expenditures are projected to increase by 7.5 percent in 1984, 7 percent
in  1985  through  1988  and  6  percent  in  1989.   Foreign  expenditures  are
projected to increase by 3.5 percent in 1984, 8 percent in 1985, 9 percent in
1986 through 1988, and 7.5 percent in 1989.  Price escalation, which has been
limited to contractual ceilings, is forecast to account for about 25 percent
of the sum of the base costs and the physical contingencies and construction
supervision.
5.18     The project provides for an estimated 1,350 man-months of consultant
services for the technical assistance to the Ministry of Hydraulics and EPEAL,
and for construction supervision of the proposed works.
Project Execution
5.19     A bar chart for the project execution is presented in Annex 11.  The
construction of the Keddara Dam and the Hamiz-Keddara Tunnel (Part A of the
project) has started since January 1982 and is well under way.  This part
would be completed by the end of 1986.   Meanwhile,  bids  for the remaining



- 20 -
project components (or Part B) were received at the end of March 1984.  The
execution of this part is expected to start by mid-1985 at the latest and to
be completed by the end of 1989.   The production facilities,  however,  are
programmed to be completed by the end of 1988, and a major production increase
would become available in early 1989.  Other works in the distribution system
would be completed by the end of 1989.
5.20     The Ministry of Hydraulics, with the assistance of consultants,  is
supervising the construction of the Keddara Dam and the Hamiz-Keddara Tunnel.
The Ministry would also be responsible for the construction supervision of the
other project components.  It would retain a consulting firm to assist it in
supervising the project construction.  This firm would also conduct periodic
reviews with the panel of experts during construction to ensure whether any
modifications in the design of the dam have become necessary.   Furthermore,
agreement was reached during negotiations that the Borrower would employ by
July 1, 1988, engineering consultants to assist the Ministry of Hydraulics in
annual  inspections  of  the  Keddara  and  Beni  Amrane  dams  and  related
structures.   After  1992  these  inspections  would  be  done  once  every  five
years.   The  firms  would  be  retained  in  accordance  with  the  Bank  Group
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, not later than January 1, 1985.
Project Financing
5.21     The construction of Part I of the Project has been underway since
1982 and the Government has already invested DA 175.7 million (US$36.6
million) in this part.   An additional amount of DA 84.7 million  (US$17.6
million) would be invested during the first semester of 1984.  The remaining
investments, for which financing is being sought, are estimated to amount to
DA 3,434.2 million (US$715.4 million), with a foreign exchange component of
DA 1,772.6 million (US$369.3 million).
5.22     The project would be executed over a six-year period.  A Bank loan of
US$290.0 million, including a capitalized front-end fee, would finance part of
the foreign exchange cost of the project.   The loan would be made  to the
Covernai nt and would be repaid over 15 years including 3 years of grace, at
the standard variable  interest  rate.   The loan should become effective by
March 1985.   EPEAL would finance  the local cost of secondary distribution
works, of the leak detectlon and repair program, the supply of water meters,
and the technical assistance program to the enterprise.  The Government would
finance the balance of local and foreign exchange costs of the project.   On
this basis, the financing plan for the project would be as follows:



- 21 -
1982 - 1989
Requirements                     DA               US$            %
------  Million 
Project Expenditures           3,698.2          770.5         100.0
Financed by:
Government:
Local Expenditure            1,489.4           310.3          40.3
Foreign Expenditure            491.4           102.4          13.3
EPEAL                           325.4            67.8           8.8
Bank                          1,392.0           290.0          37.6
Total                         3Z698.2           770.5         100.0
Reimbursement of the Government
5.23     Once  the  construction  of  the  project  has  been  completed,  the
Government will transfer the ownership of the facilities to EPEAL, which will
operate and maintain them.  The legislation governing the operations of water
supply and sewerage enterprises in Algeria requires that the enterprises
finance their investments principally by long-term loans and eventually
develop  a  self-financing  capability.   It is therefore  intended  that EPEAL
should reimburse the Government for part of the investments in the project.
5.24     Some of the facilities,  such as  the  two dams,  represent enormous
investments which would be amortized over a long period of time.  However, in
view of the short period of time for repayment of the debt, the debt service
for the construction of the dams would be extremely high.  Further,  it has
been necessary to lump the investments together, trying to catch up the delays
in providing an adequate water supply system in Greater Algiers.  Under these
circumstances, it would be impossible for EPEAL to assure the full debt
service on the proposed loans, if reasonable tariffs were to be maintained
during the next five years.
5.25     Thus,  it is proposed  to consider  the cost of  the two dams as  a
Government contribution to EPEAL and to limit EPEAL's reimbursement to
US$212.0 million equivalent.  To this amount would be added interest and other
charges paid by the Government on the funds during the construction period.
The reimbursement would start from July 1, 1990 and would be completed over 20
years, with an interest rate of 10 percent.  The foreign exchange risk on the
loan  would  be  borne  by  the  Government.   Details  of  the  reimbursement
modalities,  together  with  the  conditions  of  Government  financing  of  the
program, would be set out in a Reimbursement Agreement between the Government
and  EPEAL.   The  execution  of  this  agreement,  with  terms  and  conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Bank loan.
5.26     Including the value of the dams, the Government would make an equity
contribution of DA 1980.8 million to EPEAL for the project financing.   EPEAL
should be required to reflect such contribution in its statutory capital.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.



- 22 -
Procurement
5.27     The  contract  for   construction   of   the  Keddara  Dam  and   the
Hamiz-Keddara Tunnel was awarded to a Yougoslav firm, Hidrotecnica, following
international competitive bidding consistent with the Bank's guidelines.
Similarly, international competitive bidding procedures are also being
followed to secure the works included in Part II of the project.   Bids for
this part were  received on March  31, 1984.   Their evaluation is now under
way.   The works would be awarded to a single contractor or at most  to two
contractors.   This solution has been adopted to speed up the bidding process
and to ensure better planning and coordination of the execution of the works.
In evaluating bids for the supply of equipment and materials, a 15 percent
margin of preference or the actual customs duties, whichever is lower, would
be allowed for goods manufactured in Algeria.
5.28     A summary of project elements and method of procurement is as follows:
Procurement Method 4/              Total
Project Element                         ICB    LCB    Other                Cost
--- US$ Million ---              US$ Million
Keddara Dam & Tunnel                   155.6                               155.6
(40.5)                              (40.5)
Mechanical & Sounding Equipment          4.3                                 4.3
(2.9)                               (2.9)
Consulting Services - Dam and
Tunnel                                               1.3                 1.3
(0.8)               (0.8)
Construction Supervision                                 1.2                 1.2
(0.0)               (0.0)
Beni Amrane Dam, Algiers
Pipeline, Treatment Plant and
Related Works                     583.3                                583.3
(233.3)                             (233.3)
Equipment (Meters)                       1.0                                 1.0
(.5)                                (.5)
Consulting Services                                     23.10               23.10
(11.3)              (11.3)
TOTAL PROJECT                          744.2            25.6               769.8
(277.2)          (12.1)             (289.3)
Disbursement
5.29     Annex 12 shows the allocation of the loan proceeds to various types
of expenditures. In order to avoid a repetition of long delays which have
4/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts proposed to be financed by the Bank.



- 23 -
occurred in the implementation of two previous Bank-financed projects in the
sector, specially during the bidding process, advanced contracting of the
proposed works has been sought, so that disbursement of the Bank loan can
commence  right  upon  its  effectiveness.   The  proposed  Bank  loan  would  be
disbursed against foreign expenditures made for the project from July 1,
1984. US$3.6 million equivalent in retroactive financing would be foreseen as
of July 1, 1984.  Through July 1, 1984 the Government is projected to have
already invested US$22.4 in foreign expenditures from its own resources and
would forward the remaining foreign expenditures (of US$80.0 million) through
the project completion.
5.30     Estimated quarterly disbursements of the loan and Government funds
are shown in Annex 13.  The estimates are not based on disbursement profiles
of past water supply projects in Algeria, because the status of preparation of
the proposed project is very different  from that of previous water supply
projects.  Rather, the loan disbursements have been estimated on the basis of
the work programs submitted by the contractor for the Keddara Dam and the
Hamiz Tunnel and bidders for Part B of the project.  Disbursement is expected
to advance rapidly,  as works under  the contract for  the  Keddara  Dam are
progressing well and the other contract should be awarded prior to the loan
effectiveness, two features which allow to forecast faster disbursements than
in previous projects.
5.31     In order to make prompt payments to contractors and consultants for
the project, the Bank should agree to advance regularly funds for the
establishment  of a Revolving Fund in Algeria to cover these payments.  The
Fund would be maintained at the Central Bank of Algeria for a maximum amount
of US$10.0 million which would cover the Bank's share of eligible expenditures
on the project over a period of three months. The Fund would be maintained in
US dollars and replenished by reimbursement applications from the Government
in  US  dollars.   Applications  with  appropriate  supporting  documentation,
covering the use of the Fund, should be submitted when approximately half the
maximum allowed amount in the Fund has been spent.  The establishment of a
special account for the Fund at the Central Bank of Algeria would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
5.32     The closing date of the loan would be December 31, 1991, or two years
after the provisional acceptance of the works, which is the time needed to
monitor the performance of the works and to return retention money on the
civil works contracts.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
Executing Agency
6.01     The  Ministry  of  Hydraulics  through  its  "Direction  Gen6rale  des
Infrastructures Hydrauliques" (DGIH) would be responsible for the construction



- 24 -
of the project.  Under the current organization of the Ministry of Hydraulics,
DGIH is in charge of the design and construction of water works for
irrigation, water supply, sanitation and drainage.  DGIH is well organized and
staffed.   It  is  presently  divided  into  three  major  departments:   water
resources development, water supply and sewerage, and irrigation and
drainage.   Below the departments are various divisions in charge of specific
fields (see Annex 14, Organization Chart of the Ministry of Hydraulics).
6.02     DGIH  is  currently  managed  by  a  competent,   dynamic  and  very
influential Chief Engineer.  The present staff numbers 66 civil engineers, 30
technicians  and  410  foremen.   In  addition,  64  foreign  advisors  provide
technical assistance  to the agency.    A team of  9 civil engineers and 30
technicians has been assigned for the construction supervision of the Keddara
Dam and the Hamiz Tunnel.  A similar but more staffed team would be formed for
the construction supervision of  the other project components.   However,  in
view of the importance of the works and the expertise required for their
proper  execution,  DGIH  would  be  assisted  by   specialized   engineering
consultants for construction supervision of the project (para. 5.20).
6.03     The metering and leak detection and repair programs would be executed
by EPEAL, the regional authority responsible for providing water supply and
sewerage services in Greater Algiers.  The installation of the meters and the
works under the leak detection and repair program would be carried out by
EPEAL's own technicians who are the only specialists in Algeria of this type
of work. The Bank loan will be disbursed against only the supply of equipment
and materials for the programs.
6.04     DGIH  carries  insurances  covering motor vehicles,  fire damages and
third party liability.   It is also insured for workmen's compensation.  All
supply and civil works contracts on the project will be insured against loss
and damage in shipment, work accidents, fire and property damages.
Operation and Maintenance
6.05     A department of the Ministry of Hydraulics,  the "Direction G6n6rale
de l'Exploitation - DGE" operates and maintains dams and irrigation structures
in Algeria. The DGE would continue to provide such services to EPEAL for the
Keddara Dam, the Hamiz-Keddara Tunnel and the Beni Amrane Dam.  EPEAL would
pay DGE for its services.
6.06     Maintenance of the Keddara Dam, the Beni Amrane Dam and related works
would require special attention, since any structural failure could result in
severe loss of life and property in the Boudouaou Valley and the Isser Plain.
As a precautionary measure, engineering experts should inspect the dams
regularly to ensure that no structural deficiency is developing in the dams
and  reservoir  banks.   Following an inspection,  the Ministry of Hydraulics
would carry out any remedial actions suggested by the consultants and found
necessary (see para. 5.20).
6.07     The  other  project  facilities,  after  they  are  completed,  will be
handed over to EPEAL which will be responsible for their operation and



- 25 -
maintenance. A training program for EPEAL's staff was included in the Algiers
Sewerage Project (Loan 1545-AL) and is currently under implementation (para.
7.14).  One major success of this program has been the creation of a training
school which has  already  graduated  24  electro-mechanical  engineers.   More
training   is  being   undertaken   to  cover   other   fields  like  plumbing,
administration, etc.
6.08     Thus, it is expected that by the time the proposed project becomes
operational in early 1989, EPEAL will have the technical capability and the
staff required to operate and maintain the project facilities properly.   The
training program, as defined in the Algiers Sewerage Project (Loan 1545-AL),
is progressing well and sufficient funds are available for its execution.  No
amendment of the program or additional funds are required under the proposed
project.
Project Accounts and Audit
6.09     DGIH maintains records and separate accounts  for  its projects.   A
financial controller from the Ministry of Finance permanently controls the
accounts.  The present system is satisfactory.   Data on project expenditures
would be sent regularly to the Bank as part of DGIH's quarterly progress
reports (para. 6.10).
Reporting
6.10     In order to measure progress in the project implementation, agreement
was sought during negotiations that DGIH and EPEAL will submit quarterly
reports to the Bank. The reports will in particular cover:
(a)   progress in procurement of equipment, materials and civil works;
(b)   progress in construction of the proposed facilities; and
(c)   expenditures  incurred and updated  cost  estimates  of  remaining
works.
6.11     DGIH and EPEAL would, within six months following the closing date of
the loan, prepare and submit to the Bank a completion report on the execution
and initial operation of the project, its costs and the benefits derived or to
be derived from it, the performance and fulfillment by the Government, the
Bank, DGIH and EPEAL of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement
and the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the objectives of the Bank
loan.



- 26 -
VII. THE BENEFICIARY
Background
7.01     The  project  facilities  would  be  operated  by  EPEAL,  a  public
enterprise established by Presidential Decree No. 83-333 dated May 14, 1983.
In accordance with the decree, EPEAL is responsible for the provision of
domestic and industrial water and the collection and treatment of wastewater
in the wilaya of Algiers.  EPEAL was set up, as one of thirteen new regional
water supply and sewerage companies, in a major reorganization of the sector,
to replace SEDAL, the Wilaya company, which was responsible for the same
services (para. 2.07).  SEDAL itself was created in 1977 as part of the first
Bank-financed operation in the sector, the Algiers Sewerage Project (Loan
1545-AL). Under the Bank loan, management assistance was provided to SEDAL to
establish  its organization and financial  policies.   EPEAL, in fact,  is not
different from its predecessor, except that it operates under the tutelage of
the Ministry of Hydraulics and its jurisdiction covers a larger territory
extending over the wilaya of Algiers.
7.02     EPEAL  is  a  young  public-owned  enterprise.   It  has  a  corporate
statute, is financially autonomous and managed as a commercial undertaking.
Its  parent  authority  (the  Ministry   of  Hydraulics)   exercises   overall
governmental control of the enterprise, such as, approving its investment
program and annual budgets, annual accounts and decisions on borrowing and
tariff levels.
7.03     The former SEDAL was formed through the merger of three water supply
companies 5/ and the sewerage service of  the city of Algiers.   EPEAL has
completed the takeover of the water supply and of the major sewerage
facilities  in Algiers.   The  transfer  of  responsibility  for  the  secondary
network is to be completed by end 1987.
Past Performance
7.04     EPEAL  is  the beneficiary  of  Loan  1545-AL  made  in April  1978  to
finance partly sewerage works in Greater Algiers.  The executing agency of the
sewerage  project  was  the  "Direction  de  la  Wilaya  d'Alger  Charg6e  de
l'Hydraulique - DWH", while EPEAL was essentially responsible for the
execution of management and financial studies for the company.   Contrary to
the  rest  of  the  project,  the  consultants  for  the  studies  were  employed
promptly and the studies were completed with slight delays in the appraisal
report schedule. EPEAL has put in place the organizational structure
5/ They were (i) SONEDE-WA, a division of the National Water Production
Company serving the Western part of Algiers; (ii) ECOEVA, a municipal
company serving the rest of Algiers; and (iii) Societ6 Alg6rienne des
Compteurs d'Eau (SACE), a service company which was managing water meters
in individual apartment buildings served by SONEDE-WA and ECOEVA.



- 27 -
recommended under the studies, and as a result, the company's administrative
procedures have improved.  SEDAL's financial situation was affected by delays
of the Government approval of increased tariffs (see Chapter VIII).
Organization and Management
7.05     Annex 15 shows  the current organizational  structure  of  EPEAL.   A
Board,  chaired by the Director General, supervises EPEAL's activities.   All
Board members are full-time managers of EPEAL, with the exception of two who
are  workers'   representatives.    The  General  Director  is  appointed  by
Presidential  decree upon nomination by the Minister of Hydraulics.   He  is
responsible for the day-to-day operations of the Company, which are handled by
six  departments:   water  operations,  sewerage  operations,  administrative,
finance,  commercial,  and  engineering  studies and new works.   The Director
General is also assisted by two divisions, one for organization and data
processing, and another for legal matters.
7.06     The ongoing Algiers Sewerage Project included a technical assistance
component for setting up EPEAL's structure.  The organization and management
part  of  the  studies  included  the  definition  of  EPEAL's  organizational
structure, the preparation of statements of objectives for all functional
units  and  detailed  organization  of  the  units.   The  studies,  which  were
completed in 1981, covered also the provision of assistance for improving
billing and collection, accounting procedures, fixed assets and materials
control systems.  They further included a study of computerization of EPAL's
activities and the feasibility of acquiring data processing equipment for the
company.
7.07     As a result of the assistance, substantial progress and improvements
have been achieved in the company's organization, notably in reorganizing the
commercial department, the operating districts, and the finance department.
In addition, EPEAL is in the process of purchasing computer equipment and has
implemented  the  systems  developed  by  the  consultants  for  billing.   The
implementation of the studies' recommendations was affected, however, by (i)
the expectation that a different organization might be needed following a
proposed sector organization (para.7.01); (ii) the unavailability of adequate
office space, due to delays in achieving the construction of the company's
head  office;  and  (iii)  a  lack  of  qualified  staff  to  continue  the
implementation of the studies' recommendations.
7.08     The sector reforms are now known and EPEAL's jurisdiction has been
expanded to cover the whole Algiers Wilaya.  As a result, there is a need for
revising EPEAL's organizational structure and management requirements.  EPEAL,
in accord with the Ministry of Hydraulics, believes that the management study
should be  updated  to  fit  its  expanded  organization.   However,  given  the
magnitude and volume of the ongoing water supply and sewerage programs, EPEAL
would not be able to provide the staff needed for the updating work.
7.09     Therefore, an important component of the project (para. 5.09, h) is
the provision of technical assistance to EPEAL in establishing a revised
organization and management  procedures.   The assistance would also  cover a



- 28 -
review of EPEAL's financial policies.   Terms of reference for the technical
assistance are outlined in Annex 16; they were discussed and finalized during
negotiations.
Management Assistance
7.10     The program of management assistance would comprise a review of the
studies, which were carried out under the Algiers Sewerage Project, an update
of the organizational and management structure of EPEAL, and the provision of
assistance  during  the  implementation  of  the  study's  recommendations.   The
following aspects would be covered:
(i)  an  evaluation   of  progress   made   in   implementing   the
recommendations and systems of the previous studies;
(ii) an update and definition of the broad lines of the company's
organizational structure and its relationship with the
supervising authority and other agencies of the Government
and the Algiers Wilaya;
(iii) an update of job description and statements of objectives for
all main functional departments;
(iv) development of detailed organizational structure for all
departments and divisions together with an organization plan
and staffing requirements;
(v)  development  of  general  and  cost accounting procedures  and
practices; and
(vi)  provision of assistance and training for the  implementation
of the recommended organization, and of revised systems and
procedures.  The latter will include in particular provision
of guidance to EPEAL's staff in inventoring and reconciling
past accounts.
7.11     The assistance for the financial aspects is described in para.
8.13. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from EPEAL that, not
later than March 31, 1985, it will employ qualified consultants in
accordance with the Bank Group Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, and
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to carry out the
management assistance program.   Assurances  were obtained  that,  at  the
conclusion   of   the   studies,   EPEAL   will   promptly   review   their
recommendations with the Government and the Bank and implement the agreed
structures and procedures.
Staf fing
7.12     At the end of 1983, EPEAL had 1,200 staff, or an average of 59
employees per 10,000 people served.   This ratio is considered adequate
and would be further reduced after EPEAL takes over the rest of



- 29 -
municipalities in Algiers Wilaya (para. 7.01).  EPEAL plans to reach a
ratio of 43 employees per 10,000 people served by the end of 1990, a year
after the project completion.   The  staff  ratio  would  be  one  of  the
principal indicators that would be monitored during the project execution
(para. 8.19).
7.13     EPEAL's  salaries  and  conditions  of  employment  are  somewhat
adequate, though lower than those in the private sector.  Consequently,
because of a shortage of skilled engineers and accountants in the
country, EPEAL has found some difficulties in recruiting qualified
staff. To overcome this, EPEAL has been carrying out a training program
and has sent abroad young staff to specialize in sanitary engineering,
administration and finance.
7.14     The General Director is assisted by a training coordinator who
oversees  the company's training needs and programs.  A training center
was set up as part of the Algiers Sewerage Project.   The center, which
became operational in 1981, had already graduated 45 electro-mechanical
assistant engineers.  Seventeen others would be graduated at the end of
1984.  The duration of the studies is 18 months, after which graduates
are integrated automatically in EPEAL's personnel.  Besides its full-time
training programs, the center is used for training seminars and
short-term courses.  In 1983, ten administrative staff were  trained  to
become accounting personnel.   EPEAL is closely monitoring its training
needs and is using training as a means to rotate and promote staff.
7.15     EPEAL has received assistance  from the "Soci6t6  des  Eaux  de
Marseilles-France"  for conducting courses for assistant engineers.   For
other courses, EPEAL uses the services of the "Ministere de la Formation
Professionelle"   Twenty-four  candidates,  who  have  received  EPEAL's
fellowships, are now enrolled in civil and sanitary engineering courses
in the Federal Republic of Germany.   A first group of graduates  (six
engineers) is expected to join EPEAL in September 1984 and the remainder
by the end of 1987.   Under the terms of  their fellowships,  they are
required to work for EPEAL for at least ten years after their return to
the country.
Current Accounting Practices
7.16     EPEAL keeps its accounts in accordance with the "Plan Comptable
National" which is acceptable.  The company's accounts were computerized
as from January 1, 1983, using a Government-owned computer outlet.  A
broader plan for computerization of the accounts, together with other
activities, has been developed under the previous management assistance
program (para. 7.10), and EPEAL is expected to acquire computer equipment
by the end of 1984.   EPEAL performs annual  inventories of its stocks
prior to finalizing its annual accounts.
7.17     So far, EPEAL's accounts have been based on an estimate of the
assets of the merger companies, and EPEAL's take-over of their accounts.
Some deficiencies existed in the old accounts and persisted afterwards,



- 30 -
and because of lack of documentation, it has not been possible to
consolidate  the  accounts.    EPEAL's   auditors   have   indicated   that
consolidation of the past accounts and actions to strengthen EPEAL's
practices in this field, are required in order to ensure that EPEAL's
financial statements truly represent the company's financial situation.
7.18     Actions  to streamline  the accounting procedures  and financial
reporting should aim to:  (i) update and complete the implementation of
fixed assets and material control procedures, which is under way as part
of the previous  management  assistance;  (ii)  develop general and cost
accounting procedures and financial reporting requirements; (iii) train
the accounting and financial staff; and (iv) reconcile and consolidate
past accounts in conjunction with an appropriate inventory of EPEAL's
assets and liabilities.  The first two tasks are part of the management
assistance  to be  provided  under  the proposed  loan.   Training of  the
financial staff would also be carried out under the proposed management
assistance,  and  through  special courses  at the training center.   The
assistance to EPEAL would further include guidance on proper ways to
consolidate the past accounts.
Billing and Collection
7.19     EPEAL bills  its customers every six months for water consumed
and a fixed charge for meter  rental  and  connection  maintenance.   In
addition, in some apartment buildings, EPEAL reads individual meters and
apportions  the  consumption  and  charges  between  tenants.   For  such
services, EPEAL charges a special fee for reading and billing.  Bills are
prepared  manually  for  customers  with  master  meters,  whereas   for
individual customers, bills are computerized using a Government-owned
computer outlet.
7.20     From the merger companies,  EPEAL has  inherited  a backlog  of
receivables, which at the time of the creation of the former SEDAL,
amounted to about 2 years of billing.  The number of deteriorated meters
was high and EPEAL experienced many problems in identifying customers'
contracts  and  accounts.   About  two-thirds  of  these  old  receivables
represent debts which should be written off through reconciliation and
consolidation of past accounts and an Action Plan to reduce by end 1984
the receivables to not more than nine months of water sales (excluding
accounts dating from prior to 1979) and to not more than six months of
water sales by the end of 1987 was agreed during negotiations. This plan
includes measures to write off old accounts and to collect from public
sector   debtors   directly   through   the  Ministry   of   Finance.    The
computerization of billing by end 1984 will further improve the system.
7.21     EPEAL  plans  to  install  individual  meters  for  tenants   in
apartment buildings and to phase out progressively the use of master
meters, as part of a general tariff policy issued in the water code
(para.  2.08).   The  phasing  out,  however,  should  be  first completed,
before a progressive tariff structure can be introduced for water usage.
EPEAL is also planning to introduce quarterly billing of its customers.



- 31 -
Audit
7.22     As a socialist enterprise, by law EPEAL's accounts are subject
to be audited by "La Cour des Comptes".  In addition, an external audit
of EPEAL's annual financial statements is carried out by the "Societ6
Nationale de Comptabilite (SNC)" - a state accounting firm which received
technical assistance under Bank Loan 1185-AL (SNMC Expansion Project).
7.23     Existing  arrangements between  the Bank and EPEAL provide  for
submission to the Bank of the auditors' annual report within six months
after the close of each fiscal year. Past audits have been satisfactory,
but have been received with some delays, due to the time needed by EPEAL
to review the reports prior to their submission to the Bank.  It has now
been established that after the close of a fiscal year, a period of nine
months is needed to finalize the audit, before it can be sent to the
Bank. Consequently, it is now proposed that EPEAL's financial statements
should be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each
fiscal year and the audit report within nine months.  Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations.
Insurance
7.24     EPEAL carries insurance covering motor vehicles.  Other assets
are self-insured by the Government.  EPEAL is also insured for workmen's
compensation.  All supply and civil works contracts for the project will
be insured against loss and damage in shipment, accidents, fire and
property damage.
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past and Present Financial Position
8.01     EPEAL's statements of income, sources of application of funds  , and
balance sheet for 1983 are shown in Annexes 17 through 19.  In 1983, EPEAL had
a cash surplus of about DA 19.0 million which was declining, as tariffs had
remained unchanged since  1978.  Though its net income in 1983 was negative
(the operating ratio was about 120 percent), EPEAL contributed significantly
to its new investments after servicing its debt.  EPEAL's net cash generation
and customers' contributions financed about 19% of the water supply and
sewerage investments in Greater Algiers in 1983; the remainder was financed by
borrowing  (18%)  and  Government  contributions  (63%).   The  company's  debt
service in 1983 remained low, reflecting the long delays in the investment
program and Government financing through equity contributions.
8.02     EPEAL's initial equity was provided by the Government in transferring
the ownership of fixed assets (less related debts) of the previous water
supply operators in Algiers and the sewerage department of the municipality of
Algiers.  New water and sewerage systems which have been built by the Algiers



- 32 -
Wilaya in the past five years, were passed to EPEAL as equity contributions.
As  a  result,  EPEAL's  capital  structure  is  sound,  as  reflected  by  its
debt:equity ratio which remained at about 3:97 until the end of 1983.   The
level of  inventory and receivable accounts, however,  is high (para.  7.20).
Measures to redress this situation are under way and would be strengthened by
the management assistance to be provided to EPEAL under of the project (para.
7.10).
Revenues
8.03     EPEAL derives its revenues essentially from water sales which until
recently were charged at a flat uniform rate of DA 1.00/m3  (US$0.21f/m3) 6/
for  all  types  of  usage.   Additional  revenues  come  from  charges  for  new
connections, meter rental, connection maintenance fees, and service fees for
meter reading and billing of tenants in apartment buildings.  The old tariff
was implemented in 1978 under the Algiers Sewerage Project (Loan 1545-AL), as
a  temporary  measure  to  redress  the  financial  situation  of  SEDAL,  the
predecessor  of EPEAL.   Under  the loan,  EPEAL is committed, in each fiscal
year, to raise revenues sufficient to cover the aggregate amount of its
operating and maintenance costs, plus debt service in excess of provision for
depreciation.   EPEAL was  further required  to carry  out,  with  consultants'
assistance, a study of its financial structure and policies to determine how
its financial performance should be improved in the future.
8.04     The  study,  which  was  completed  in  1981,  was  based  on  EPEAL's
projected  financial  position  and  investments  during  a  five-year  period
(1981-1985).   It recommended  that about  50  percent  of  the  investments  be
financed by borrowing, 10 percent by EPEAL's own cash generation and the
remaining 40  percent  by  Government  equity  contributions.   The  study  also
recommended the introduction of progressive rates for different types and
levels of consumption.   The implication of the recommended financial  policy
was that the average tariff needed to be increased by about 40 percent and
adjusted subsequently in accordance with inflation and changes in EPEAL's
investment program.
8.05     Parallel  to the EPEAL study, the Government, however, undertook an
overall assessment of the sector organization and financial policies, and was
reluctant to apply, in isolation in Greater Algiers, the EPEAL's proposal.
So, although the Government was willing to approve a policy essentially
conceived to strengthen EPEAL's self-financing capability, a decision on that
matter was postponed pending completion of the sector assessment.   This was
completed recently and the Government has issued legislation giving the water
supply and sewerage enterprises a commercial statute and recommending the
implementation of appropriate and efficient tariffs.  At the same time, the
6/ In addition, prior to the creation of EPEAL, SEDAL used to
sell bulk water to some adjacent municipalities in Algiers
Wilaya  at  the  rate  of  DA  0.601/m3  (US$0.13/m3).   But
this accounted for only 6 percent of the total sales.



- 33 -
Government recently approved a 40 percent tariff increase in the Algiers
Wilaya, thus implicitly approving the EPEAL's proposal.
8.06     The  new  approved  tariff  structure,  which  was  outlined  in  the
management study, for the first time introduces a new block rate for public,
commercial  and  industrial  consumption.   This  rate  is  set  at  DA  2.00/m3
(US$0.42), while domestic consumption continues to be charged at DA 1.O/M3
(US$0.21/m3).   The Government's objectives  in introducing  the new rate are
to:
(i) rationalize the use of water through pricing of the services,
notably for higher levels of consumption; and
(ii) increase EPEAL's self-financing capacity as part of a broader
objective   of   enrolling   the   sector   enterprises    in
participating in the financing of their investments.
8.07     A  water  code,  which  was  issued  by  Law No.  83-17  in July 1983,
recommends that rates for water consumption should be set on the basis  of
usage and should be progressive in accordance with volumes consumed.  Towards
this goal, a first step has been taken by EPEAL with the introduction of a
differential  tariff  for public,  commercial and industrial consumption.   The
objective is to induce large consumers to restrict their consumption, which in
turn would help reduce  future  capital  outlays.   The next step would be to
allocate a first usage block charged at a rate affordable by low-income
families  and  to introduce  progressive  rates  for domestic consumption.   The
grounds for this have been laid down in the financial studies financed under
Loan  1545-AL.   An update of  these  studies would determine  the timing for
introduction of the progressive rates .
8.08     The  "Loi des Finances"  for 1984  (issued  in December 1983),  which
applies to EPEAL as a socialist enterprise, states that investments of the
socialist enterprises should be financed by local and external borrowing,
Government equity contributions, and the enterprises' own internal cash
generation.  The share of each of the financing sources would depend on the
nature of the investments and is to be determined by the Ministry of Finance.
8.09     As indicated earlier, past investments in the sector were financed
mostly  by  Government  contributions.    EPEAL's   self-financing,   including
repayment of its debt, so far, has accounted for less than 10 percent of its
total investments.   But there is an increasing awareness in Algeria of  the
need to improve the self-financing capability of the public enterprises,
including the water supply and sewerage companies.   Nevertheless, a decision
on the level of EPEAL's future self-financing ratio would depend to a large
extent on the volume of the proposed investments compared to the current level
of its fixed assets.  The timing of the investments in relation to the demand,
and the potential for EPEAL to generate revenues on the basis of reasonable
and affordable tariffs, must also to be taken into account in fixing the level
of self-financing.



- 34 -
8.10     The  proposed  investments  (1984-1991)  would  almost  triple  EPEAL's
current gross fixed assets because the proposed project would more than double
EPEAL's present water production capacity.  Because of the need to provide at
once a large increase in order to meet a fully justified pent-up demand, the
proposed facilities are lumpy and costly but will produce water for the next
sixty years.  However,  the repayment period of the Bank's loan is set at 15
years, including three years of grace, which is about one-fifth of the
depreciable asset life.  As a result, EPEAL should expect to confront a high
debt service.  Therefore, in the beginning, a low self-financing from internal
cash  generation  should  be  available.   As  the  debt  service  decreases,
self-financing should increase progressively.  This objective, however, should
avoid sudden high increases of the tariffs, which are difficult to implement.
8.11     A forecast of EPEAL's future finances (para. 8.17) shows that EPEAL
would achieve increasing self financing and would be able to finance, with its
net internal cash generation, about 7 percent of its investments during the
years 1986-1990.   Subsequently,  this ratio would  increase  to 15 percent  in
1991 and  25 percent thereafter.   To achieve that, the average tariff would
just have to be increased more or less in accordance with the projected annual
inflation rate of 7 percent during the investment period.
8.12     At negotiations agreement was reached with the Government and EPEAL
that:
(i)   the  Government  will  enable  EPEAL  to  implement  the  tariffs
necessary to achieve a ratio of net cash generation to its
capital  investments   (during   the  year   considered  and   two
successive years, divided by three) of not less than 7 percent in
the years 1986 through 1990, not less than 15 percent in the year
1991, and not less than 25 percent in the years thereafter; and
(ii)   not later than October of each year, starting in 1985, EPEAL will
prepare and review with the Government and the Bank its financial
forecast for the next two fiscal years, indicating the estimated
net internal cash generation ratios in these years.
Financial Studies
8.13     As indicated earlier (para. 7.10), the project includes an update of
the financial and tariff studies which were carried out under the sewerage
project.  The new studies would assist EPEAL in formulating and implementing
long range pricing policies and structures for water supply and sewerage
services in the Algiers Wilaya.   They would in particular help EPEAL plan
appropriate actions for the progressive phasing out of the existing master
meters on service lines to apartment buildings.   Terms of reference for the
studies  are  given  in Annex 16.   They were discussed and agreed with  the
Government and EPEAL during negotiations.   Agreement was also reached with
EPEAL that, at the conclusion of the studies, it will promptly review their
recommendations with the Government and the Bank, and adopt the agreed
policies and structures.



- 35 -
Financing Plan
8.14     The following sets out an estimate of the fund requirements for the
investments during the period 1984-1991 and the sources from which they would
be met.   The  financing  plan  assumes  that  tariffs  would  be  increased  as
projected in para. 8.12 above.
Financing Plan (1984-1991)
DA               US$ 7/
Million ---------                %
Requirements
Proposed Project                     3,694.80             769.75      68.9
Sewerage Project                        738.20            153.79      13.8
Other Investments                       636.50            132.60      11.9
Capitalized Interest                    284.39             59.25       5.3
Increase in Working Capital               5.35              1.11       0.1
Total Requirements       5,359.24           1,116.50    100.0
Sources
Internal Cash Generation             1,122.44             233.84      20.9
Less:  Debt Service                     686.71            143.06      12.8
Net Internal Cash Generation           435.73              90.78       8.1
Customers' Contributions                 91.50             19.06       1.7
Total                       527.23            109.84       9.8
Proceeds from Bank Loan 8/           1,183.9              246.64      22.0
Proceeds from Expected
Financing   8/                       511.75             106.61       9.5
Proceeds from Bank Loan
1545-AL   8/                         416.88              86.85       7.8
Other Borrowing Local Banks              48.90             10.18       0.9
Total                     2,688.66            560.12      50.1
Government Equity                    2,670.58             556.38      49.9
Total Sources            5,359.24           1,116.50    100.0
8.15     In addition to the portion of the Bank loan (US$212.0 million), the
sources of funds include those Government funds onlent to EPEAL which will
7/ Based on a constant rate of exchange of US$ 1 = DA 4.8
8/ Includes refinanced interest during construction.



- 36 -
be reimbursed by EPEAL.  Other sources are the existing Bank Loan 1545-AL and
borrowing from local banks.
8.16     The  proposed  financing  plan  is  sound.   Under  the plan,  about  50
percent of the capital requirements would be financed by EPEAL's internal cash
generation (10 percent) and borrowing (40 percent). About 50 percent would be
financed  by  a  Government  equity.   Given  the  magnitude  of  the  proposed
investments, the proposed level of self-financing appears to be adequate.
Future Financial Performance
8.17     EPEAL's  forecast  financial  statements  from  1984  through 1992 are
given in Annexes  17 through 19.   The assumptions  made  in  preparing  these
statements  are  discussed  in  Annex  20.   EPEAL's  financial  performance  is
expected to improve starting from 1984 when the new tariff is applied during
the remaining year.   Its performance would improve further in 1985, as its
operating ratio would decrease from 120 percent in 1983 to 89 percent.  The
operating ratio is projected to reach about 75 percent in 1989 and to improve
further in the ensuing years, reaching about 70 percent in 1992.
8.18     EPEAL's internal cash generation ratio would increase from 7 percent
in  1988  to  25 percent  in 1992.   The  rate of return on net  fixed assets
(including all facilities for water supply, wastewater and pollution
abatement) would be 4 percent in 1992 increasing to 7 percent in the year
1995.  The rate of return on net fixed assets of the water supply facilities
is about 5 percent in 1992 and is expected to reach 8.4 percent in 1995
(assuming a break-even for wastewater operations).  This indicates that, over
the years, the company's self-financing capability as well as the rate of
return on its net fixed assets would continue to increase, bringing about
progressive   improvement   in  the  sector's  financial  autonomy.    Following
completion of the tariff studies and the likely introduction of progressive
block tariffs which will result in a significant increase in revenues,
EPEAL's financial performance would further improve.
Monitoring System
8.19     Annex 21 shows the technical and financial indicators which would be
monitored  during  the project  execution.   This Annex also  gives  the values
forecast for the indicators in the years 1986 through 1992.  These values were
discussed  and  agreed  with  EPEAL  during  negotiations.   Agreement  was also
reached with EPEAL that it will: (i) report the evolution of the indicators to
the Bank on a quarterly basis during the project execution, and on an annual
basis for five years after the project completion; and (ii) carry out any
reasonable remedial action suggested by the Bank, aiming at meeting the
targeted values of the indicators.



- 37 -
IX. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Objectives of the Proposed Investments
9.01     The need for improving and increasing water supply to Greater Algiers
seems obvious.  The current supply is about 46 percent short of the demand,
which is already considered restrictive for an urban agglomeration of the size
of Greater Algiers.   The present per capita consumption  in Greater Algiers
averages 108 liters/day; it reaches 200 liters/day in neighboring countries
with less per capita income. The shortage of running potable water inside the
dwellings, coupled with defective sanitation and population congestion in the
inner city, seems to be the leading cause of some infectious diseases in
Greater  Algiers.   Cholera,  typhoid,  paratyphoid,  dysentery and  infectious
hepatitis appear to be endemic in Algiers Wilaya.
9.02     The proposed  works  would  increase  water  production  to  the  level
required to eliminate the current supply deficit and to meet the 1993 average
demand.   The project would benefit some  3.5 million people living  in  the
Algiers Wilaya; about a third of them are low-income consumers. It would help
meet water supply requirements in the developed districts of Greater Algiers,
but more particularly would permit to improve water supply services in the
developing and poorer districts, such as El Harrach and Hussein Dey.  They are
the areas where the lowest income people live and where water supply services
are most deficient.   The proposed project would also help meet water supply
requirements in the industrial districts of Rouiba and Ain Taya, where
industrial development has been slowed by the lack of basic services.
Least-Cost Solution
9.03     So far, groundwater has been used for both municipal and agricultural
water uses in Algiers Wilaya.  Groundwater is a relatively inexpensive water
source for urban supply, because in most cases it does not need to be treated
and is generally found close to urban agglomerations.   This is the case of
Greater Algiers which is being supplied with water from the Mitidja and
Mazafran Aquifers.  But for some time, the extraction rate from these aquifers
has been exceeding their recharge, and as the aquifers' reserves have been
depleted, the water table has been declining, making it possible for sea water
to intrude in the aquifers and deteriorate the quality of the groundwater.
Undoubtedly, higher volumes of groundwater cannot be extracted from the
aquifers and surface water sources must be looked upon to meet the demand in
Algiers Wilaya.
9.04     There are various sources around the major urban agglomerations in
Algiers Wilaya, that could be tapped for potable water supply.  Among them,
the closest are El Harrach River, the Isser/Boudouaou River and Oued
Mazafran.   An  economic  comparison  of  the  possible  alternatives  on  those
sources, with the possibility of expanding and integrating them with other
farther surface water resources, like the Sebaou River, showed that the
proposed project (the Isser/Boudouaou) is the least-cost solution at discount
rates of 6 percent to 12 percent.



- 38 -
Project Justification
9.05     The overriding justification for the proposed project is the need to
provide Greater Algiers with decent urban water supply services.  The whole
concept of urban development rests upon the premises that basic amenities,
such as water supply, are available, and no urban agglomeration can
harmoniously grow without adequate public water supply.  The proposed project
is  the  least-cost  solution  to  provide  such  supply.   The many health and
environmental benefits that the proposed project would generate, such as: (i)
reduced expenses for health care; (ii) welfare improvement of women and
children who actually spend much time looking for water; (iii) higher
productivity of children in school; (iv) improved welfare of the population,
stemming from a cleaner and better environment; and (v) workers' higher
productivity as a result of better health, should produce a high economic
return on the proposed investments.  These benefits are, however, difficult to
quantify and a true economic rate of return cannot be calculated.
Affordability
9.06     The  results  of  a  survey  of  household  expenses  for  basic  items,
carried out  in 1980,  are  given  in  Annex  24.   Water  supply  for  domestic
consumption accounts for a small portion (less than 1 percent) of the
households' total expenses and is not considered a burden on the household
budgets.   It  is  estimated  that  even  the  lowest  income  segment  of  the
population in the project area would spend not more than 1.3 percent of their
income for water supply services, well below the usually accepted norm of 5
percent.
Environmental Impact of the Project
9.07     As already discussed in this report,  the shortage of potable water
has  resulted  in  deplorable  sanitary  conditions  in  Greater  Algiers.   The
objectives of the project are to eliminate the water shortage and to
contribute to the improvement of environmental conditions in the most
populated area of the country.  As a result of  the project,  wastewater  in
Greater Algiers will increase and will need to be disposed of properly.
Improvement and expansion of the sewer systems are currently being carried out
under the Algiers Sewerage Project (Loan 1545-AL).  The expectation is that,
once the sewerage project has been completed, wastewater would be quickly
evacuated from the urbanized areas, with no detrimental impact on the
environment.
Institution Building
9.08     A first step  towards  the reorganization and  strengthening  of  the
water supply and sanitation sector in Algeria was taken with the Algiers
Sewerage Project (Loan 1545-AL), which included the setting up of a new water
authority (SEDAL) in Greater Algiers, and feasibility studies in the second
and third largest cities, Oran and Constantine.  The objective was to put in
place a financially viable water authority that could be used as a model in
setting up similar organizations  in other  cities  and  wilayate.   This  was
attained, as the Government has set up water companies similar to SEDAL in
twelve regions of the country.



- 39 -
9.09     It remains that water supply services provided by EPEAL in Greater
Algiers  are still  deficient,  due  to the current production deficit.   The
proposed project is conceived to provide the additional supply and to help
EPEAL establish itself as a more effective regional water authority.  Solving
the water supply problem in Greater Algiers is a difficult task for which the
Government and EPEAL need to receive outside technical assistance, if this
task is to be carried out successfully.  The Bank can provide such assistance
to the Government and the leverage required to push for implementation of
sound managerial and financial policies in the sector.
Adequacy of EPEAL's Pricing Policies
9.10     For the purposes of testing the adequacy of the water supply pricing
in Algeria, the average incremental cost (AIC) of providing water supply in
Greater Algiers is calculated at different discount rates (6 percent to 10
percent). The calculation shows that AIC varies between 1.28 DA/m3
(US$0.28) and 2.06 DA/m3  (US$0.42) at discount  rates of 6 percent and 10
percent respectively.   At any discount rate, the commercial, industrial and
public consumers pay tariffs which are higher than the AIC.  In addition,  it
is envisaged that a progressive tariff structure be generalized once the
individual domestic meters have been installed to replace the master building
meters.  If present tariffs are used as a proxy for benefits, the economic
rate of return is 8 percent.
Risks
9.11     There is a risk that the Government would not implement the tariff
increases in the timely fashion required to maintain the self-financing ratios
indicated as financial performance  objectives  for  EPEAL.   In view  of  the
recent decisions taken by the Government regarding the overall institutional
and financial framework and objectives for the sector, which emphasize that
water utilities should be managed as commercial enterprises and should
implement the tariffs necessary to make them financially self-supporting, this
risk appears relatively unlikely.   There are no special risks involved in he
technical execution of the project. The availability of contracts or bids for
most of the components allows a relatively confident estimate of project
costs. In spite of this, the volume of works for components such as dams and
tunnels might increase substantially, resulting in a decrease of the return on
the investments.   There  is a further risk  that procurement  problems would
delay project implementation.  However, the advanced status of procurement and
the proposed packaging of project components into two or three large contracts
reduces this risk.
X. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
10.01    During negotiations,  agreements and understandings were  reached on
various issues referred to in Chapter II to VIII of this report.



- 40 -
10.02    A  condition  of  effectiveness  of  the  proposed  loan  would  be  the
execution of a Reimbursement Agreement between the Government and EPEAL, with
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.25).  Another condition
of effectiveness would be the establishment by the Ministry of Finance of a
special account for a revolving fund at the Central Bank of Algeria (para.
5.31).
10.03    Provided that agreement can be reached on the foregoing conditions,
the proposed project is suitable for a loan of US$290.0 million to the
Government of Algeria for a term of 15 years including 3 years of grace.
June 11, 1984



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF WATER RESOURCES IN THE ALGIERS-SEBAOU REGION
Study Area
1.       The Algiers-Sebaou area is located in the central part of Algeria and
embraces six wilayate  1/:  Algiers,  Tizi Ouzou,  Bejaia,  Blida,  Bouira and
Medea.   It extends along the Mediterranean coast from Tipaza in the west to
south of Ain Boucif in the east.   The distance between these two points is
about  230 kms with the city of Algiers located midway.   The Algiers-Sebaou
region covers a total area of about 10,750 kmz extending over the catchment
basins of Oued Mazafran in the west, Oued Isser in the center and Oued Sebaou
in the east.   In addition to these oueds,  the region contains  perhaps  the
largest aquifer in Algeria, the Mitidja, which presently provides water to
urban settlements in the area and for irrigation in the Mitidja Plain.
2.       The population in the study area in 1981 was estimated at 6.1 million
or  about  a  third  of  the  country's  total  population.   Algiers  City,  the
nation's capital, with an estimated population of 2.1 million, is the largest
urban agglomeration  in Algeria.   Other important provincial  cities such as
Blida (population 180,000), Tizi Ouzou (population 50,000) are also located in
the region.   These urban settlements  are surrounded by some 124,000 ha of
irrigable land, 70 percent of which is found in the Mitidja Plain, considered
one of the most prolific lands in Algeria.   Irrigation is actually practised
in some areas of the Mitidja Plain, using groundwater and surface water from
Hamiz Dam, originally built during the last century, renovated and extended in
the forties.
3.       Urban water shortage has been chronic in the area, particularly in
Greater Algiers where current available production covers less than half of
the demand.  Irrigation is now practised on a limited scale in the cultivated
land.   Agricultural  production  has  substantially  decreased  in the Mitidja
Plain which used to provide a major portion of the country's food needs.
Because of the decrease in production, today almost half of the basic food
products, like wheat, cereals, etc. are imported.
4.       The Government's objective for the area is to provide  it with  the
hydraulic infrastructure necessary to meet domestic and industrial water
1/   Based on the former geographical  separation of the
country into 31 wilayate.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
demand in the shortest delay, and progressively to expand irrigation in the
cultivated land.  The objective is to have all arable land in the area fully
irrigated by the year 2010.  To that end, the Government has commissioned the
preparation of a water master plan for the development of water resources in
the  area.   The  plan  was  prepared with the assistance of a consortium of
British engineering firms, Binnie & Partners and W.S. Atkins International and
its preparation was partially financed by a Bank loan of US$5.0 million (Loan
S-17AL).
Water Demand
5.       Urban water demand in the Algiers-Sebaou region has been estimated as
follows:
Year                     Mm3/year
1985                       297
1990                       413
2000                       633
2010                       921
In 1981, the demand was calculated to be about 207 Mm3/year, but only 163
Mm3 was supplied during that year.  It is foreseen that by the year 2010 the
urban population would reach about 14.2 million distributed in some 43 cities
and  their  water  needs  would  amount  to  921  Mm3/year  or  about  178  lpcd.
Meanwhile, depending on the types of crops and irrigation systems adopted in
the region, yearly agricultural water demand would fluctuate between 5450 and
9270  m3/ha,  with  an  average  demand  of  740  Mm3  during  the  year  2010.
Almost two-thirds of this volume or 492 Mm3 would be used in the Mitidja
Plain.
Water Resources
6.       So far, water needs in the Algiers-Sebaou region have been met by
groundwater  extracted principally from the Mitidja Aquifer.   In 1981, about
294 Mm3 was extracted from this aquifer:  168 Mm3 was  for urban supply and
the  remaining  126  Mm3  for  agriculture.   The  volume  pumped  in  that  year
exceeded   the   normal   recharge   of   the   aquifer,   resulting   in   the
over-exploitation  of  the  aquifer.   Because  of  the  good  quality  of  the
groundwater, it should be reserved for urban supply, while surface waters
could be used for irrigation.   It should be noted that irrigation with surface
water in the Mitidja Plain would result in an increase of recharge in the
aquifer, allowing in the future a larger extraction rate from the aquifer.
7.       Major oueds and dam sites in the Algiers-Sebaou area are shown on Map
16089R.  Based on the selected dam sites and capacities in the Mitidja area,
the total regulated volume of water in this area would be 524 Mm3/year
distributed as follows:



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
Dam Site                           Regulated Volume, Mm3/year
Bou Kourdan                                     40
Al Mouskakbal                                  100
Douera                                         100
Rocher des Pigeons                             110
Keddara                                        160
Hamiz                                           14
Total                                       524
The Hamiz Dam already exists and three others, Al Mouskakbal, Keddara and Bou
Kourdan, are now under construction.   Based on the proposed dam sites and
capacities in the catchment basins of Oueds Isser and Sebaou, the regulated
volume of water would be about 527 Mm3/year for Isser and 611 Mm3/year for
Sebaou.   Thus,  the  total  regulated  volume of water  in the Algiers-Sebaou
region would be about  1,662 Mmn3/year,  just enough to meet  the  urban  and
agricultural demand of 1,661 Mm3 in the year 2010.
8.       The type of water resources as well as their expected production in
the year 2010 are shown below:
Resource Origin                         Capacity, Hm3tyear
Small dams and local sources                        187
Groundwater                                         353
Major structures on surface
water sources                                 1,122
Total                                         1,662
As it can be seen, a major share of the demand would be met by surface waters
through impounding and diversion dams on the three main oueds of Sebaou, Isser
and  Mazafran.   The  Mitidja  Aquifer  would  be  used  exclusively  for  urban
supply.   About 36 Mm3/year of water coming from small dams and local sources
would be for potable and industrial uses, and the remaining 151 Mm3/year for
agriculture.   Of  the  production  of  the  large  surface  water  schemes,  531
Mm3/year would be used to meet the urban demand and the remaining 591
Mm3/year in irrigation.
9.       Most of the irrigable land in the study area is found in the Mitidja
Plain. Water demand for irrigation in this plain would depend upon the type
of  crop  and  irrigation  system  in  usage  there.   But  even for the  lowest
consumptive use and the most efficient irrigation system, the minimum demand
has been calculated  to be 492 Mm3/year  in the Mitidja and 51 Mm3/year in
the Sahel.  Thus, even if all the systems located in the Mitidja Valley were
to be reserved for irrigation in the plain, additional water would need to be
brought in from outside.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
10.      Because of the high cost of water  transmission  in irrigation 11,
water sources should be assigned first to the closest  irrigable  lands.   In
principle,  the Mazafran/Douera  and  Rocher  des  Pigeons  schemes,  which are
located  in  the  Mitidja  Plain,  should  be  assigned  to  irrigation  in  the
Mitidja.   Their  combined  production  is  estimated  at  210  Mm3/year.   The
balance of irrigation needs should thus come from Oued Isser or Oued Sebaou.
Water in the Koudiat Acerdoune Reservoir (see Map 16089R), however, cannot be
used alone for irrigation, because of its high salinity.   It must be mixed
with a fresher surface water source, like Oued Sebaou, before it is used in
irrigation.  In essence,  this constitutes a constraint in the design of the
water master plan, since that water from Oued Sebaou, in spite of its outside
location, must be brought in for irrigation in the Mitidja Plain.
11.      Thus, once local demand in the Sebaou area has been satisfied,  the
remaining resources in the Sebaou Valley would be transferred to the Mitidja
Plain and the Sahel.  Water demand in the Sebaou basin in the year 2010 has
been estimated at  75 Mm3  for urban supply and 47 Mm3 for irrigation.   It
is estimated that outside demand for the use of water resources of the Sebaou
Basin would be 21 Mm3 in 1990, 149 Mm3 in 2000 and 275 Mm3 in 2010.
Proposed Master Plan
12.      In designing the master plan for the use of water resources in the
Algiers-Sebaou region, it has been assumed that urban water demand would have
first priority and would be met more than 95 percent of the time. Meanwhile,
for irrigation uses which are second in priority, a shortage of water should
not occur more than 20 percent of the time and the maximum shortage during a
year should not exceed 50 percent of the water needs.
13.      As previously  mentioned,  the major  schemes  in  the  Mitidja  Plain
should be built at once to meet the irrigation demand in this area.  Following
the construction of the Keddara scheme, water from the Sebaou Basin would be
brought in to meet the domestic and industrial water demand in Greater Algiers
and along the route Sebaou-Algiers.  In addition, fresh water from the Sebaou
Basin would be needed to be mixed with those of the Koudiat Acerdoune
Reservoir to meet the residual irrigation demand in the Mitidja Plain.  So,
alternative designs of the master plan would come down to the most economical
scheme in the Sebaou Basin to meet the urban demand and the residual
irrigation demand at the lowest cost.
1/ Estimated at DA O.l/m3/year/km in Algeria.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
14.      The proposed water master plan would include:
(i) the tapping of the Mitidja Aquifer to meet domestic and industrial
water  demand  in  cities  in  the  Mitidja  Plain and west  to the
Sahel.   This demand has been estimated at  353 Mm3 in the year
2010,  of which 116 Mm3 for Greater Algiers and 237 Mm3 for the
remaining cities;
(ii)  the completion of the Mazafran/Douera System and the construction
of the Rocher des Pigeons Dam (1990) and of Koudiat Acerdoune Dam
(2000) to provide 330 Mm3/year to areas in the center and east
to the Mitidja Plain; and
(iii)  the construction of Souk el Tleta Dam (1989), Taksebt Dam (1992)
and Djemma Tizra Dam (2005) in Oued Sebaou basin to supply
295 Mm 3/year  to  Greater  Algiers  and  cities  along  the  line
Sebaou-Algiers,  and  154 Mm3/year  for  irrigation  in the  Mitidja
area.
15.      The estimated total cost of the water master plan is DA 12.4 billion
(US$ 2.6 billion) in 1983 prices, excluding the cost of distribution networks
in the cities.   Under the proposed plan,  the production of raw water would
reach 985 Mm3 in the year 2010.   The cost price of raw water is calculated
to be DA 2.1/m3 (US$ 0.4) at the discount rate of 10 percent.
April 16, 1984



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN SETTING-UP
A REGULATORY AGENCY FOR WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
Introduction
1.       The Government of Algeria has recently established thirteen regional
enterprises to be responsible for the provision of drinking water and the
collection and treatment of wastewater in various regions of the country.  The
enterprises have their head offices located respectively in the cities of
Algiers, Oran, Constantine, Annaba, Mostaganem, Tizi Ouzou, Setif, Batna,
Tiaret, Bechar, Laghouat, Medea and Ouargla, and in principle cover adjacent
wilayate. Additional regional authorities would be set up to cover the entire
country.   The  Government's  objective  is  to  decentralize  water  supply and
sewerage operations, giving the responsibility for such services to the
regional enterprises.   It is believed that such a decentralized system would
fit  better   the   country's   physical   characteristics   and  administrative
organization.
2.       Nevertheless, the proposed system may present some problems, if the
operations of the regional authorities are not regulated and controlled by a
central agency.  With a national authority, it is possible to apply a uniform
tariff, thus allowing cross-subsidization between regions.   For the proposed
system, one regional authority might be highly financially profitable because
of its tariff level and population served, while other authorities might need
operating subsidies.   Each authority might choose to apply its own policies
and procedures, which might not be in line with national goals.
3.       To avoid these problems,  the Ministry of Hydraulics  is considering
setting up a national agency to regulate and oversee the operations of the
regional  authorities.   This  agency  will  operate  under  the  Ministry  of
Hydraulics'  authority.   In order that the agency should be fully equipped to
tackle the above problems in the most efficient way, consultants are to be
retained to advise on certain aspects of the agency's functions and
organization. The required services are described below.
Functions
4.       On the basis of the objectives set out for the agency, the consultant
will outline the main functions of the agency.  To this end, it is envisaged
that the consultant will study and develop (but will not necessarily be
limited to) the following aspects of the agency's operations:



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
A. On the Technical Side
(i)  supervision of the technical operations of the regional companies;
(ii) collection of sector data, such as the levels of production and
sales, consumption by households, industry, commerce and public
entities, number of service lines, storage availability, number of
sewer connections, sewage treatment, water quality, etc.
(iii) planning and progress of training programs, evaluation of training
needs; and
(iv) progress in project implementation, updating of project costs.
B. On the Financial Side
(a)  supervision of the financial operations of the regional companies;
(b)  review  of  the  financial  results  and  auditors'  reports  on the
results;
(c)  evaluation of the companies'  financial  position and forecast  of
their future financial situation; and
(d)  examination of specific operations, such as metering, billing and
collection procedures, purchasing, storekeeping, transport, etc.
C. On the Planning Side
(i)  examination   of   the   companies'   medium-term   plans   for   the
improvement and expansion of their services;
(ii) review of the companies' investment programs; and
(iii) review of their annual budgets.
5.       The agency will constitute a link between the regional companies and
to that end will take appropriate actions to keep the companies informed of
development in the sector.   In addition, the agency's goal is to rationalize
and harmonize procedures in the sector.  The agency will provide guidelines on
appropriate procedures for planning, budget preparation and control, and
project preparation.   The consultant is expected to provide a draft  of the
guidelines and procedures.
6.       The agency will discuss with the regional companies their long-term
plans  to  reach  certain  levels  of  service  in  their  areas.   An  important
function of the agency will be to determine how the Government's contributions
and other external funds should be distributed between the companies.   The



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
agency will prepare individual financing plans for the companies, taking into
account the financial position of each of them and the resources available.
The end result of these plans would be a sort of cross-repartition of the
financial  resources available  in the sector.   The agency will  prepare and
distribute relevant reports consolidating the technical and financial data of
the regional companies.
Organization Studies
7.       Based on the functions outlined above, the consultant will study and
proposed an appropriate organization for the agency.  The study will cover the
following aspect:
(a) preparation of detailed organization charts for each division/
department within the proposed structure;
(b) preparation of statements of objectives and responsibility for
each senior management position;
(c) establishment of appropriate procedures for planning and decision
making;
(d) definition of the principal line and staff relationships;
(e) determination of appropriate ways for liaison and consultation
with the regional agencies and other Government entities.
Timetable and Reports
8.       It is envisaged that the study will be completed in an elapsed time
of not more than 10 months (from mobilization of the consultant's team in
Algiers).
9.       The following reports are to be submitted:
(i) not later than the end of the sixth month, a first report on
organization and management, containing recommendations on the
matters set out in the terms of reference; two months will be
allowed for consideration of this report by the Authorities,
discussion with the consultant, and determination of any revision
which may be necessary;
(ii) at the end of the assignment, a final report on organization and
management, incorporating any revisions made to the first report
and including in addition the results of the consultant's studies
under the terms of reference.



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 4
10.      The interim report is to be submitted in 20 copies, and the final
report in 50 copies, in the French language, and delivered initially to the
Secretary General of the Ministry of Hydraulics.
Proposals
11.      Proposls  in 5 copies  in the  French  language  should  be  submitted
by                   to:
12.      Proposals should contain. inter alia:
(a)  a description of the consulting firm (or firms) and its areas of
specialism;
(b) a description of other relevant assignments previously carried out
by the firm;
(c) an explanation of the way in which the consultant proposes to
approach the assignment, including any comment he may wish to make
on the terms of reference or any modifications he may wish to
propose in the interests of better achieving the objectives of the
assignment;
(d) a brief description of any special methodology to be employed (for
example, use of computers);
(e) a staffing chart for the assignment, showing each specialist to be
employed and indicating the nature and duration of his involvement
(distinguishing time in Algeria from time at the home office);
(f) an explanation of how supervision of the assignment is to be
maintained by the firm's principals;
(g) curricula vitae of key personnel nominated for the assignment; and
(h) a statement of any special facilities the consultant may require
in carrying out the assignment.
13.      Proposals will be judged on technical merit and fees.  The consultant
should indicate in its offer any assistance that should be provided by the
Algerian authorities to him, such as accommodation, local transportation and
other administrative matters.
April 19, 1984



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
AILERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SERVICE LEVELS IN UREBAN AREAS IN MID-1981
Estimated                              WATER SUPPLY  SERVICES                                             SANITATION SERVICES
Population   Consumption  Per Cap. Cons.          Storage         Service  Ave. No. Of        % of Pop.    T of Pop.  Other  Type of
City          In 1,000      m3/day         I/day       Volume, m3 % of Cons.   Lines  Pers. Per Line   With Sewer  With S. Tank  Systemr Sewerage
(1)             (2)          (3)         (4)=(3)           (5)   (6)=(5)x1OO      (7)     (8)=(2)            (9)           (10)       (11)    (12)
(2-)                    T3                       T7
Constantine          500.0      57,456          115          50,000       87        22,000       22.7              91            -         9      Ccdbined
Annaba               273.0      45,000          165          24,200       54        14,040       19.4              95            -          5     Combinei
Sidi Bel Abes        178.9      15,000           84          19,000      127         8,500       21.0             -             -          -         _
Setif                144.5      29,730          206           7,000       24        10,580       13.7            100            -          -      Corbined
Batna               140.0       22,000          157          37,500      171        11,150       12.6            100            -          -      Canbined
BisKra              105.5       13,750          130          11,800       86        12,270        8.6             80            -         20      Carbined
Tizi-ouzou           101.5      19,980          197          11,500       58         4,500       22.6             100           -          -      Cacriined
Tilimcen             92.5       16,020          173          30,500      190         9,570        9.7             90            -          10     Carbined
Bechar               80.4        6,300           78           9,200      146         9,320       8.6              70            11        19      Combined
Ghardia              75.3       12,000          159          22,325      186        12,332        6.1             -             100        -
boraj Bou
Arreridj             69.0        7,870          114           6,000       76         5,020       13.7             100           -          -      Combined
MeNea                66.4        9,480          143           8,750       92         6,600       10.1            100            -          -      Carmbined
Maghnia              58.5        7,000          120           6,750       96         5,070       11.5             93            -          7      Ccsbined
El Eulma              57.1       2,000           35           3,000      150         4,520       12.6             100            -         -      Cxrbined
Touggourt            53.0        2,880           54           1,000       35         3,000       17.7             -             -          -
Laghouat             48.5        11,840         244           3,750       32         6,310        7.7             20            80         -      Separated
Jijel                 36.0       8,600          239          14,400      167         4,770        7.5              80             5        15     Ccmbined
Qsar El
bouKhari             29.2        4,460          153           3,950       89         2,630       11.1             85            -          15     Comrbined
Chelghoun            26.0          530           20           2,000      377           -          -                59           -         41      Corbined
El Golea             24.6        7,040          286           2,500       36         1,675       14.7             -             45        55
Omr El
bouagui              21.2        5,717          270           5,900      103           -         -                -              10       90
Guerrara              19.8       3,760          190             400       11         3,200        6.2              50           50        -       Separated
Sici-Aich             18.3       1,188           65           1,600      135         2,950        6.2             95             5        -       Ccnbined
Aflou                 17.9       2,800          156           8,000      286         2,030        8.8              -             -        -          -
Drean                16.3          749           46           1,000      134         1,280       12.7             60            -         40      Canbined
Sour El
Chozlane              15.0        1,500         100           1,660      IlI         1,310       11.5              98           -          2      Combined
El Kala               12.5       2,280          182           3,850      169         1,020       12.3              -            -         -
Tindouf               12.1         900           74           1,450      161           770       15.7              40           60        -       Canbined
Aib Abid               7.4         300           41             300      100           610       12.1              90           -          10     Combined
bouteldja             6.3        1,037          165           1,450      140           470       13.4             81            -          19     Coerbined
Tablat                5.1         1,176         231             450       38           720        7.1             100           -         -       Separated
Beni Abbes            3.9          840          215           1,370      163           690        5.7             94             6        -       Cambined
Beni Slimane          3.2          618          193             560       91           630        5.1             100           -         -       Ccrh ined
Igli                  2.5          560          224             -         -            430        5.8            100            -         -       Combined
El OCearia            2.1          344          164             200       58           283        7.4             100           -         -       Combined



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5
ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MINISTRY OF HYDRAULICS
Terms of Reference for Carrying Out a Survey
of the Water Supply and Sewerage Sector
Background
1.       The Government of Algeria intends to carry out a study of the
water supply and sewerage sector.  This effort would constitute a part of
Government's overall promotion of the sector development which was
recently enhanced by issuing the Water Code and establishing a number of
regional water supply and sewerage companies.
2.       The objective of the study is to analyze the current situation
in the sector, to provide the Ministry with basic data for planning the
development of the sector, and finally, to establish a methodology for
continued and updated planning for the growth of the sector.  Besides
assessing the water service levels in the country, the study would
include a description of the current situation of water supply and
sewerage  systems,  comments  and  recommendations  on  availability  of
resources and the organization and financial setup of the sector.
3.       The Government plans to employ qualified consultants to carry
out these studies in collaboration with the Ministry's Departments of
planning.  The services to be performed under this study are described
below.
Objectives
4.       The  objective  of  the  study  is  to  cover  90%  of  the  total
population of Algeria, starting with the most urbanized agglomerations.
The consultant should determine at the early stage of Phase 'A' of the
study (as described below) the size of agglomeration which could be
considered the smallest to be covered under the study.
5.       The execution of the study would be organized in four phases as
follows:



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
Phase 'A' - Preparation of a Questionnaire for Conducting the Survey
6.       Under this phase the following tasks should be performed:
(a)  review of previous sector studies and results of census of
1977;
(b)  establish a list of agglomerations  to be covered by the
study; and
(c)  determine  the population,  number of dwellings,  and other
relevant data concerning the level of service for each of
the agglomerations included under (b) as was reported in
the 1977 census.
7.
In preparing the questionnaire,consideration should be given to
future  use  of  the information to be collected under the study.   The
consultant should familiarize the Ministry's staff with the data
processing program to be used in performing the study.
8.       The following data should be collected for each locality:
(i)  total  population  (urban  and  rural),  and  dispersed
population;
(ii) households and average number of persons per family;
(iii) economic and social infrastructure (large industries,
hospitals, schools, etc.);
(iv) water resources (surface and groundwater);
(v)  water  supply  transmission  and  distribution  systems
(reservoirs, pumping station, pipes, etc.);
(vi)  individual   and   master   connections   and   metering
(domestic, commercial and industrial);
(vii) sewerage networks and collectors, and type of sewage
treatment and discharge;
(viii)  organizational  setup  of  water  supply  and  sewerage
services in the area; and



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
(ix) financial aspects of provision of the services such as
current tariffs and financial reporting on operation
and investments.
Phase 'B' - Data Collection
9.       During  this  phase  the  consultant  should  proceed  with  field
collection of the data and filling out the questionnaire. The consultant
should verify the data through visits and interviews with the agencies
concerned with the survey.
Phase 'C'
10.      Subsequent to the completion of Phase 'B' the consultant should
proceed with a manual tabulation of certain elements of the data in order
to  establish  some  parameters.   These  may  include,  for  instance,  the
following:
(i) consumption per capita per day;
(ii) the level of service; and
(iii) unaccounted-for water.
11.      At a later stage the consultant should carry out a complete
computerized treatment of the data for submission of results.
Phase 'D'
12.      Under this phase the consultant should submit to the Ministry an
overall report comprising the results of the survey.   In doing so, the
consultant should present the results of the study and recommendations in
an analytical manner. The consultant should analyze the sector problems,
and the issues and constraints of the sector development.   This should
cover service aspects, water resources and the discharge of wastewater,
the institutional setup and financial situation of the agencies involved
in providing the services.
13.      The  consultant  should  formulate  recommendations  for  sector
development  based  on  objectives  for  service  levels.   An  estimate of
required investments (through a Ten-Year Program) on the basis of agreed
levels of service should also be established in the report.



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
Timetables and Reports
14.      It is envisaged that the survey would be completed in an elapsed
time of 12 months from mobilization of the consultant team in Algiers.
The following documents and reports are to be submitted.
(i) monthly progress reports;
(ii)  the  preliminary  report  for  Phase  'A'  should  be
submitted by the end of the second month;
(iii) not later than the end of the seventh month, a
preliminary report on completion of Phase 'B';
(iv)  preliminary reports on  Phases  'C'  and  'D'  would  be
submitted by the end of the eight and tenth month
respectively; and
(v)  at  the  end  of  the  assignment   a  final   report
incorporating any changes and additions resulting from
discussions with the Government should be submitted.
15.      The monthly and preliminary reports should be submitted in (10)
copies; the final report should be submitted in (50) copies. All reports
will be in French and delivered to the Ministry of Hydraulics.
Proposals
16.      Proposals  in  five  copies  in  the  French  language  should  be
submitted by ----------------      to:
17.      Proposals should contain, inter alia:
(a)   a description of the consulting firm (or firms) and its
areas of specialism;
(b)   a  description  of  other  relevant  assignments  previously
carried out by the firm;
(c)   an explanation of the way in which the consultant proposed
to approach the assignment, including any comment he may
wish   to  make  on  the   terms  of   reference  or  any
modifications he may wish to propose in the interests of
better achieving the objectives of the assignment;
(d)   a  brief  description  of  any  special  methodology  to be
employed (for example, use of computers);



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 5
(e)   a  staffing  chart  for  the  assignment,   showing   each
specialist to be employed and indicating the nature and
duration  of  his  involvement   (distinguishing  time  in
Algeria from time at the home office);
(f)   an explanation of how supervision of the assignment is to
be maintained by the firm's principals;
(g)   curricula  vitae  of  key  personnel  nominated  for  the
assignment; and
(h)   a statement of any special facilities the consultant may
require in carrying out the assignment.
18.      Proposals will  be  judged  on  technical  merit  and  fees.   Any
assistance the Algerian authorities may be able to provide in regard to
accommodation, local transportation and other administrative matters
should be indicated in the proposal.



- 56 -
ANNEX 5
ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER CONSUWRICON AND SALES IN ALGIERS WILAYA, PAST AND FORECAST
Urban          % of     Population   Ave. Percap. Total Water  Unaccounted  Water        Existing   Production      Water       Additional
Population 1/ Population  Connected 1/ Water Needs  Requirerents  for Water   Deaand   Production   Deficit           Sales         Sales 4/
Year     1,000       Connected      1,000        m3/year       Mn3/year        %       YN3/year   Mn3/year    Yn3/year       m3/year      vt3/year
(1)       (2)           (3)       (4)=(2)x(3)      (5)       (6)=(5)x(4)      (7)    (8)=  (6)      (9)    (10)=(8)-(9)  (11)=(9)x(I-7) (12)=(11)-(1-7)
100                                               1-(7)                                    100             100
10-0
1977     1,805        95.0          1,715         54.5           93.47       38.5       151.98      98.20      53.78           60.39            -
1978     1,896        95.5          1,811         55.0           99.61       38.5      161.97       98.23      63.74           60.41            -
1979     1,991        96.0          1,911         55.5          106.06       38.5       172.46     116.04 2/   56.42           71.36            -
1980     2,091        96.5          2,018         56.0          113.01       38.3      183.16      133.84      49.32           82.60            -
1981     2,178        97.0          2,113         56.5          110.38       38.3      193.48      133.84      59.64           82.60            -
1982     2,270        97.5          2,213         57.0          126.14       38.0      203.45      142.04 3/   61.41           88.06            -
1983     2,364        98.0          2,317         57.5          133.23       37.0      211.48      150.24      61.24           94.65            -
1984     2,463        98.5          2,426         58.0          140.71       36.0      219.86      150.24      69.62           96.15            -
1985     2,567        99.0          2,541         58.5          148.65       35.0      228.69      150.24      78.45           97.66            -
1986     2,674        99.5          2,661         59.0          157.00       34.0      237.88      150.24      87.64           99.16            -
1987     2,786        100.0         2,786         59.5          165.77       33.0      247.42      150.24      97.18          165.77          65.11
1988     2,903        100.0         2,903         60.0          174.18       32.0      256.15      150.24      105.91         174.18          72.02
1989     3,024       100.0          3,024         60.5          182.95       31.0      265.14      265.14       -             182.95          79.28
1990     3,151        100.0         3,151         61.0          192.21       30.0      274.59      310.24       -             192.21          87.04
1991     3,266       100.0          3,266         62.0         202.49        29.0      285.20      310.24       -             202.49          95.82
1992     3,386        100.0         3,386         63.0          213.32       28.0      296.28      310.24       -             213.32         105.15
1993     3,510        100.0         3,510         64.0          224.64       27.0      307.73      310.24       -             224.64         114.96
1994     3,639        100.0         3,639         65.0          236.54       26.0      319.65      450.24       -             236.54         125.36
1995     3,772       100.0          3,772         65.5         247.07        25.0      329.43      450.24       -             247.07         134.39
1996     3,910        100.0         3,910         66.0          258.06       25.0      344.08      450.24       -             258.06         145.38
1997     4,053       100.0          4,053         66.5          269.52       25.0      359.36      450.24       -             269.52         156.84
1998     4,202        100.0         4,202         67.0          281.53       25.0      375.37      450.24       -             281.53         168.85
1999     4,356       100.0          4,356         67.5          294.03       25.0      392.04      450.24       -             294.03         181.35
2000     4,516        100.0         4,516         68.0          307.09       25.0       409.45     450.24       -             307.09         194.41
1/  Refer to aiid-year populations.
2/  Increase due to the Mazafran II System which became operational in July 1979.
7/  Additional production accruing frcom the Haminz System.
4/  Due to proposed project which is expected to beccoe operational at the beginning of 1987.
/1



ANNEX 6
ALGIERS REGICNAL W4IER SUPPLY PROJECT
POPULATION AND HOUSI1; IN AlGIF.RS WIIAYA
1977 Census 1/                  Ave. No. of               1966 Census 2/           Ave. No. of
Population                Nuiber of   Persons per                 Population                CrMth
County         Tawn           Urban      Rural       Total      Households    Household        Urban       Rural       Total       Rate, 7 4/
SIDI M'WAEID   Idi M'Hamerd      135,300      -         135,300       19,600        6.9            93,611       -          93,611        3.4
Alger Center       29,800      -         129,800      22,500         5.8            78,585       -           8,585        4.6
El Madania        156,100      -         156,100      21,300         7.3            97,963       -          97,963        4.3
EL HARFACH     El Harrach        161,500      -         161,500       21,800        7.4           109,707        -        109,707        5.9
Baraki             45,900      -          45,900       6,100        7.5               -          -            -            -
HAS EL OOED    Bab El Oued       128,500      -         128,500       17,800        7.2            83,671       -          83,671        4.0
Kasbah            126,600      -         126,600      20,300         6.2            87,045       -          87,045        3.5
Bologhine          60,300      -          60,300       9,100        6.6             34,430       -          34,430        5.2
BIR7ANREIS 3/ Birmandreis         88,500      -          88,500       13,200        6.7            57,899       -          57,899        3.9
Bouzareah          48,100      -          48,100       6,700        7.2             21,827       -          21,827        7.3
El Brar           112,400      -         112,400      16,600         6.8            73,752       -          73,752        6.8
HUSSEIN DEY    Hussein Dey       240,800       -        240,800       33,100        7.3           138,916        -        138,916         5,1
Kouba              89,200      -          89,200      13,300        6.7             52,595       -          52,595        4.9
CITY OF ALGIERS            1,523,000      -       1,523,000     221,400        6.9           930,001        -        930,001         4.6
CHERAGA         Cheraga           15,600   21,400        37,000        5,300        7.0             8,390    10,337        18,727        6.3
Ain Benian        32,600     1,300       33,900       5,000         6.8            16,954       453        17,407        6.2
Draria            15,500    1,700        17,200       2,600        6.6              8,320       410         8,730        6.3
Zeralda            9,800    6,900        16,700       2,700        6.2              5,364     2,764         8, 128       6.6
Staouelli         16,500    3,400        19,900       3,300        6.0              8,187     2,216        10,403        6.0
KJIBA           Rouiba            15,100   28,300        43,400        6,400        6.8             5,704    18,778        24,482        5.3
Ain Tava          43,600      400        44,000       6,900         6.4            22,217       202        22,419        6.2
Bordi El Kiffan   53,100      -          53,100       7,900         6.7            19,711     4,714        24,425        7.2
Dar El Beida      10,000    4,000        14,000       2,100         6.7             3,797     3,069         6,866        6.6
BaAJta.1U       Boudouaou         17,700   16,700        34,400       4,900         7.0             8,749      9,554       18,303        5.8
Thenia            11,900   28,000        39,900       6,800         5.9             8,236    12,101        20,337        6.2
Reg8aia           17,100   15,900        33,000       4,900        6.7              1,743     5,736         7,479       13.7
Zemou.i            4,500   18,600        23,100       3,400         6.8             2,743    11,396        14,139        4.5
bIRl4NDREIS 3/  BirKhadem         19,400   14,200        33,600       4,800         7.0            15,923       612        16,535        6.5
CUTSILE AICIERS CITY         282,400  160,800       443,200       67,000        6.6            116,038    82,342      218,380         6.5
WIlAYA OF AEIERS            1,805,400   160,800    1,966,200     288,400        6.8          1,066,039    82,342     1,148,381        5.0
1/ Taken an February 12.
2/ Taken on April 4.
3/ Part of this county extends outside the limits of Algiers City.
4/ Calculated for the total population. Between 1966 and 1977 the total urban population in the
Wilaya of Algiers grew at an average amnual rate of 4.9%. Outside Algiers City, the urban population
in the Wilaya grew at an average annual rate of 6.7%.



- 58 -
ANNEX 7
ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Forecast of Water Demand and Sales in Algiers Wilaya
1 989
450                                             1~ 
_     _      _     _ __                ___       _ 
400 
SECOND STAGE
35C                                                   
30C                                                                     ~   \ '~ __
FIRST STAGE OF
20PROPOSED PROJEC                           UNACCOUNTE   
50
AVERAGE DEMAND
~~ V  ~~WATER SALES
19075           1980            1985              1990             1995             200
YEARS
Apr 11 1984                                                                     WorldS Bonk-~26206



- 59 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ISSER WATER TRANSFER TO KEDDARA RESERVOIR
Regulated Flow at Keddara Dam
1.       The Keddara Dam would be built on Oued Boudouaou and would receive
excess flow from the existing Hamiz Reservoir through a tunnel connecting the
two  reservoirs.   The  Keddara  Reservoir  would  have  a  useful  capacity  of
160 Mm3.   The  regulated  flow  of  Boudouaou  River  at Keddara Dam would be
about  20 Mm3/year,  while  an  average  flow  of  30  Mm3  is  expected  to  be
diverted yearly from the Hamiz Reservoir to the Keddara Dam.  In total, only
about 50 Mm3 /year would be derived from Oued Boudouaou and Oued Hamiz and a
major diversion must come from Oued Isser to reach the expected average flow
of 160 Mm3/year of the Keddara System.
2.       Several  factors would affect  the quantities  of water  that  can be
transferred to Keddara Dam.  The most important one is the future construction
of an impounding structure upstream the diversion point to Keddara Dam.  As
mentioned in Annex 1, as part of the master plan for the development of water
resources in the Algiers-Sebaou region, a major impounding structure, the
Koudiat Acerdoune Dam, would be built in the upstream catchment of Oued
Isser.  The diversion structure to Keddara Dam must necessarily be  located
downstream the Koudiat Acerdoune Dam, in view of the shorter distance to the
Keddara Reservoir.  Therefore, the quantities of water transferred to Keddara
Dam should be determined for the two sets of conditions prevailing before and
after the construction of the Koudiat Acerdoune Dam.
3.       Other factors that would affect the quantities of water that would be
transferred to Keddara Dam would be:
(i) the location of the diversion point on Oued Isser;
(ii) the capacity of the conveyance system between Oued Isser and
Keddara Reservoir; and
(iii) the volume of water impounded at the diversion point.
Diversion Site Selection
4.       Because of the high load of suspended solids  (14 gr/liter) in Oued
Isser, the water must settle to some degree, before it is conveyed to the
Keddara Dam. This can be accomplished either through:



- 60 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4
(a) Impounding the oued to create a settling basin;
(b) Constructing a diversion channel within the river to slow the
river velocity and force settling of the suspended solids; and
(c) Settling of the water outside the river bed in grit chambers.
5.       Fifteen sites were originally  identified  for the transfer of Oued
Isser waters to the Keddara Reservoir. Twelve of them were eliminated because
of geologic  faults or  the high cost of  the needed  structures.   The three
remaining sites are located at Lakhdaria, Beni Amrane and Bas Isser (see Map
16089R) and have been identified under such names.  At both the Bas Isser and
Lakhdaria sites, settling of the water would take place in the river bed
through  the  construction  of  diversion  channels.   The remaining  structures
would include grit chambers, low lift pumping stations, sedimentation tanks,
high lift pumping stations and conveyahce systems to the Keddara Reservoir.
In the case of Lakhdaria, the major portion of the conveyance system would
consist of a tunnel (7.5 kms).   For the Bas Isser scheme, a pipeline would
link  (Keddara  Dam)  and  the  diversion  point  on  Oued  Isser.   The  third
alternative, Beni Amrane, would consist of the construction of an impounding
dam on Oued Isser where settling of the water would take place.   Because of
the large retention time in the Beni Amrane Reservoir and the expected
substantial reduction of suspended solids, the water withdrawn from it would
be directly pumped through a pipeline to Keddara Dam.  Two short sections of
the pipeline would be built in tunnel.
Available Yields at Proposed Sites
6.       The final choice of the site for the diversion of Oued Isser waters
to Keddara Reservoir would depend upon the volumes of water available at this
site before and after the construction of the Koudiat Acerdoune Dam, and the
resulting  cost  per  m3  of  water  transferred  to  Keddara  Dam.    After
construction of the Koudiat Acerdoune Dam, the drainage basin of Oued Isser at
the  diversion  point  would  be  reduced  substantially  and  the site must be
selected, so that enough water would still be available to supply the Keddara
System.
7.       The following table gives the regulated flows at Keddara Dam, based
on the available water transfers from the three selected alternatives:



- 61 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
Before Koudiat Acerdoune         After Koudiat Acerdoune
Conveyance      Volume        Regulated         Volume        Regulated
Capacity   Transferred  Flow at Keddara  Transferred  Flow at Keddara
Site      m3/s        Mm3/year        Mm3/year         Mm3/year        Mm3/year
Lakhdaria      6            59             108              29               78
9            68             115              33              81
12            74             119              34              82
Beni Amrane   6            108             157              59              111
9          115              162              61             111
12           117             164              62             112
Bas Isser      6            84             135              62              112
9            99             147              70             118
12           108             154              75             121
8.       As  it can be seen from above,  irrespective of the capacity of the
conveyance system, the Lakhdaria diversion would not supply sufficient water
to  the  Keddara  System  to  enable  it  to  reach  the  proposed  yield  of
160 Mm3/year.   For  Beni  Amrane,  a  conveyance  system,  with  a  capacity
slightly larger than 6 m3/s, would be able to supply the necessary flows for
a yield of more than 160 Mm3/year.   It should be noted  that,  although  the
drainage basin at Beni Amrane is smaller than at Bas Isser's, the volumes of
water transferred from Beni Amrane are larger, due to its impounding capacity.
Economic Comparison of the Proposed Sites
9.       The following table gives the cost price per m3 of water  diverted
from the three proposed sites, at the discount rate of 10 percent.
Before Koudiat Acerdoune                After Koudiat Acerdoune
Conveyance   Regulated    Cost        Conveyance    Regulated       Cost
Capacity       Flow        Price      Capacity        Flow         Price
Site        m3/s       Mm3/year      DA/m3        m3/s         Mm3/year       DA/m3
Lakhdaria        7         110           0.65           7           80           1.30
Beni Amrane      6         157           0.60           4          108           1.10
Bas Isser        6         135           0.61           4          105           0.81



- 62 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 4
10.      The  economic  comparison  was  carried  out  for  the  most  economic
conveyance capacities,  7 m3/s  for the Lakdharia diversion,  and 6 m3/s  for
Beni Amrane and Bas Isser before the construction of Koudiat Acerdoune Dam,
and 4 m3/s after this construction.   The economic comparison shows that the
Beni Amrane alternative is always the cheapest, though its cost price is
practically identical to the Bas Isser's prior to the construction of the
Koudiat Acerdoune Dam.  Nevertheless, before the construction of the Koudiat
Acerdoune Dam, the Beni Amrane alternative would be able to deliver a larger
volume of water for an increased regulated yield of the Keddara System.
11.      In addition to its lower cost, other technical factors tend to favor
the choice of the Beni Amrane site.  This site presents many advantages, such
as a lower content of suspended solids of the water transferred to the Keddara
Reservoir, a substantial storage of raw water allowing a more uniform pumping
rate to Keddara Dam, and better water quality.   The Bas Isser site presents
some obvious disadvantages:  Due to the short retention time in the diversion
channel, the suspended solids load of the water may be high, which may result
in substantial damages to pump impellers and a gradual reduction of the
transmission pipeline capacity.  The water also may be very polluted at this
point.  The construction of the diversion weir, particularly its foundations,
may be difficult and costly.
12.      For these reasons,  the Beni Amrane site was selected to locate the
diversion structure, which would be used to convey Oued Isser waters to the
Keddara Reservoir.
April 15, 1984



- 63 -
ANNEX 9
AtGERIA
AILIERS REG.IONAL WATER SUPPLY PROLJECT
IEAIAED COST ESTIMATES
Item                     Local    Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign    Total
- -    D A Million - - - -    - --Us$ Million  1/ - - -       Percent
PART A
Keddara Dam and Hamiz-Keddara Tuhnel     351.6      231.8    583.4      73.2        48.3    121.5       81.3
Mechanical and Sounding EqulipnmEnt        3.2       11.7     14.9       0.7         2.4      3.1        2.1
Sub-Total                            354.8      243.5    598.3       73.9       50.7    124.6       83.4
Detailed Design                            2.7        3.9      6.6       0.6        0.8       1.4        0.9
Construction Supervision                  4.3         2.8      7.1       0.9        0.6       1.5        1.0
Physical Contingencies                    62.6       43.0    105.6       13.0       9.0      22.0       14.7
Total Cost (January 1984 Prices)         424.4      293.2    717.6      88.4        61.1    149.5      100.0
Price Escalation                          40.2       21.3     61.5       8.4        4.4      12.8        8.6
TUTAL COST - PART A (Current Prices)     464.6      314.5    779.1       96.8       65.5    162.3      108.6
PART B
Beni Anrane Dam                          184.0      122.7    306.7      38.3       25.6      63.9       13.7
Beni Anwrane Pumrping Station            20.2        54.6     74.8       4.2        11.4     15.6        3.3
Beni Anhrane-Keddara Pipeline             96.7      145.0    241.7      20.1       30.2      50.3       10.8
Keddara-Boudcuaou Pipeline                10.3       15.4     25.7       2.1        3.2       5.3        1.1
Boudouacu-Algiers Pipeline               127.1      190.7    317.8      26.5       39.7      66.2       14.2
Boudouaou Treatment Plant                129.2      145.7    274.9      26.9       30.4      57.3       12.3
Reservoirs and Pumping Stations          107.5      107.6    215.1      22.4       22.4      44.8        9.6
Distribution Network in Algiers          195.7      212.0    407.7      40.8       44.1      84.9       18.2
Instrurientation                          0.8        4.8       5.6       0.2         1.0      1.2        0.3
Supply of Water Meters                    0.9         1.0      1.9       0.2        0.2       0.4        0.1
Leak Detecticn Program                     0.9        1.0      1.9       0.2        0.2       0.4        0.1
Sub-Total                            873.3    1,000.5  1,873.8      181.9      208.4    390.3       83.7
Physical Contingencies                   131.0      150.1    281.1      27.3        31.3     58.6       12.6
Construction Supervision                  34.9       40.0     74.9       7.3        8.3      15.6        3.3
Sector Study                               1.4        1.9      3.3       0.3        0.4       0.7        0.1
Technical Assistance to EPEAL              1.4        3.4      4.8       0.3        0.7       1.0        0.2
Technical Assistance to Hydraulics         0.5        2.4      2.9       0.1        0.5       0.6        0.1
Total Cost (January 1984 Prices)       1,042.5    1,198.3  2,240.8      217.2      249.6    466.8      100.0
Price Escalation                         307.6      367.3    674.9      64.1        76.6    140.7       30.1
TTAL COST - PART B (Current Prices)    1,350.1    1,565.6  2,915.7     281.3       326.2    607.5      130.1
TOlAL PRWJECT COST                     1,814.7    1,880.1  3,694.8     378.1       391.7    769.8
Percent                               49.1       50.9    100.0       49.1       50.9    100.0
If Baseo on a constant rate of exchange of US$1 = DA 4.80



- 64 -
ANNEX 10
ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONiL WATER SUPPLY PRCJECr
ANNUIAL PFRicECT flVESIM1TS
(11A Million)
1 9 84         1 9 8 5         1 9 8 6         1 9 8 7         1 9 8 8         1 9 8 9            TOTA L
Item                    Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local        I    La oi ol   Foreig   Local Foreign  Total
PART A
Keddara Dam anw hari-z-
Keddara Tunnel              71.8   55.3   111.4   62.9    85.8   57.6                -              -        -      -    269.0   175.8   444.8
Mechanical and Sounding
Equiprent                    0.9    2.0     2.4    5.4      2.0    4.3       -      _        _      -        _      -       5.3    11.7    17.0
Sub-Total                 72.7   57.3   113.8   68.3    87.8   61.9        -       -       -      -        -      -    274.3   187.5   461.8
Detailed Design               0.6    0.9      0.9    1.2      0.7    1.1       -      -        -      -        -      -      2.2      3.2     5.4
Ccnstruction Supervision       1.1    0.7     1.1    0.7      1.1    0.7       -      -        -      -        -      -       3.3     2.1     5.4
Phlysical Contingencies       10.9    8.6    17.1   10.2    13.2    9.3        -      -        -      -        -      -     41.2    28.1    69.3
Actual Expenditures in
1982 and 1983                -       -       -       -       -      -        -      -        -                      -    103.4    72.3   175.7
Sub-Total                 85.3   67.5   132.9   80.4   102.8   73.0                -      -        -              -    424.4   293.2   717.6
Price Escalation              3.2    1.2    17.4    7.8    19.6   12.3         -      -        -      _        -      -     40.2    21.3    61.5
T(7AL COST - PART A          88.5   68.7   150.3   88.2   122.4   85.3         -      _        -      _       _       -    464.6   314.5   779.1
PARt B
Beni Amrane Darn               -       -     25.8   17.2    46.0   30.7    62.5   41.7    31.3   20.8    18.4   12.3   184.0   122.7   306.7
Beni Arrane Punping Station    -       -       -      -       3.0    8.2      8.1   21.8      7.1   19.1     2.0    5.5    20.2    54.6    74.8
Beni Amrane-Keddara Pipeline   -       -       -       -       -      -      38.7   58.0    33.8   50.8    24.2   36.2    96.7   145.0   241.7
Keddara-Boudouaou Pipeline     -       -       -       -       -      -       3.4    5.1      6.9   10.3      -       -      10.3    15.4    25.7
Bcudouaou-Algiers Pipeline     -       -     16.5   24.8    31.9   47.7    33.0   49.6    30.5   45.8    15.2   22.8   127.1   190.7   317.8
Boudouaou Treatmnat Plant      -       -       -      -      32.3   36.4    51.7   58.3    25.8   29.1    19.4   21.9   129.2   145.7   274.9
Reservoirs and Pumping Stations  -     -       -      -      26.9   26.9    32.3   32.3    32.2   32.3    16.1   16.1   107.5   107.6   215.1
Distribution Network in Algiers  -     -       -       -     48.9   53.0    68.5   74.2    58.7   63.6    19.6   21.2   195.7   212.0   407.7
Instruraentation               -       -       -      -        -      -       0.3    1.5      0.3    1.9     0.2    1.4      0.8      4.8     5.6
Supply of Water Meters         -       -       -      -       0.5    0.5      0.4    0.5       -      -       -       -      0.9      1.0     1.9
Leak Detection Program         -       -      0.2    0.3      0.3    0.3      0.2    0.2      0.2    0.2       -      -      0.9      1.0     1.9
Sub-Total                  -       -     42.5   42.3   189.8  203.7   299.1  343.2   226.8  273.9   115.1  137.4   873.3  1,000.5  1,873.8
Physical Contingencies         -       -      6.4    6.3    28.5   30.6    44.9   51.5    34.0   41.1    17.2   20.6   131.0   150.1   281.1
Construction Supervision       -       -      1.7    1.7      7.6    8.1    12.0   13.7       9.1   11.0     4.5    5.5    34.9    40.0    74.9
Sector Study                   -       -      0.4    0.6      0.7    0.9      0.3    0.4      -       -       -       -      3.4      1.9     3.3
Technical Assistance to EPEAL    -     -      0.3    0.7      0.5    1.2      0.4    1.0      0.2    0.5      -       -      1.4      3.4     4.8
Technical Assistance to
Hydraulics                           -       -       -      0.3    1.2      0.2    1.2       -      -        -      -       0.5     2.4     2.9
Sub-Total                  -       -     51.3   51.6   227.4  245.7   356.9  411.0   270.1  326.5   136.8  163.5  1,042.5  1,198.3 2,240.8
Price Escalation               -       -      6.7    5.0    43.4   41.3    97.8  112.2    98.0  126.7    61.7   82.1   307.6   367.3   674.9
TOAL CMS - PART B              _       -     58.0   56.6   270.8  287.0   454.7  523.2   368.1  453.2   198.5  245.6  1,350.1  1,565.6  2,935.7
TOTAL PROJECI OST            88.5   68.7   208.3  144.8   393.2  372.3   454.7  523.2   368.1  453.2   198.5  245.6  1,814.7  1,80.1          4.
TTAL pROJECT COST IN US$ 1/   18.5   14.3    43.4   30.2    81.9   77.5    94.7  109.0    76.7   94.4    41.4   51.2   378.1   391.7   769.A
11 Based on a constant rate of exchange of US$ 1 1 DA 4.80



ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Constiuclion Schedub
C~ Y- &                 1985                       19E<>                       1987                        19m8                        i989                        192
hnans ~~~w w X  l +    1 r ;   ^ i ;Et 't 0 4it                                                                     vit        I t 'H  r 9
MAM  2 JA1SON6  if  MAM  ii  AS~o OND  O F M A M i       26  801 16J F M A M J  JA 5   N  JA                            P   F .111    MW    96060 
o wlum7nJ F   t                  J 1 f                - ---
37k71"                                                                                                                                                       ?S-1 39  F 7nz 6- z^2 '7~167    W169170    7i172    73  74    75    16  77  1     79  32  83   ~7~87 610 3 4102
t I I I  P.                 IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
17~
* 70
PA ' 779 en499694  F7o
FA 609767760990619777
76 79797 9cCe6t7rK7 e9



ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGI(NAL WATER SUPPLY PROJEGC
ALUXATICMI OF THE 1LOAN PROCEEDS
(DA Million)
Type of              1 9 8 4               1 9 8 5              1 9 8 6               1 9 8 7               1 9 8 8               1 9 8 9             Total      Allocation    of Total
Expenditures      Investment Allocation  Investment Allocation  Investment Allocation  Investment Allocation  Investment Allocation  Investment Allocation    Investment   DA  tFSt  Investrent
PART I
Foreign Purchases      1.2        1.2        6.8       6.8        5.8        5.8         -                                                     -          13.8      13.8      2.9     100
Local Purchases        1.1        -          3.1        -         2.7         -          -         -           -         -          -          -           6.9        -       -          -
Civil Works - iKedara
Dams                 66.7       26.7      224.3      89.7       194.9      77.9         -         -           -                               -         485.9    194.3    40.5         40
Consulting Services
Foreign              1.1        1.1        1.3       1.3         1.3       1.3                    -          -                     -         -            3.7      3.7      0.8      100
Local                0.6        -          1.0        -         0.8         -          -         -           -         -          -          -            2.4       -        -
Construction Sup.      1.8        -          2.0                  2.1        -           -         -                     -          -          -           5.9        - 
Total- Part 1       72.5      29.0       238.5      97.8      207.6       85.0         _         -           -         -          _          -          518.6    211.8    44.2        40.8
PARTr II
lquipment (meters)
Foreign               -         -          0.4       0.4        1.0        1.0        0.8       0.1         0.2       0.2         -          -           2.4       2.4     0.S       100
Local                 -         -          0.3        -          1.0        -         0.8        -          0.2        -          -          -           2.3        -       -          -
Civil Works             -         -        108.0      43.2      531.5      212.6      939.0     375.6       792.2     316.9      429.3      171.7      7,800.0  1,120.0   233.3         40
Consulting Services
Foreign               -         -          3.4       3.4        12.9      12.9       18.6       18.6       13.1      13.1        6.2        6.2         54.2      54.2    11.3       100
Local                 -         -          2.6        -        11.4         -        18.5        -         15.6        -         8.6         -          56.7        -       -          -
Total - Part 11       _         -        114.7      47.0      557.8      226.5      977.7     395.0       821.3     330.2      444.1      177.9      2,915.6  1,176.6   245.1         40.4
TaIAL (PARTS 1 & 11) 72.5      29.0      353.2     144.8       765.4     311.5      977.7      395.0      821.3     330.2       444.i     177.9       3,434.2  1,388.4   289.3        40. 4



- 67 -
ANNEX 13
ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Bank FY 1/
and                                            Bank Loan
Quarter                                In Quarter        Cumulative 2/
1985     Fourth                                3.2               3.2
1986     First                                 3.2               6.4
Second                               4.8               11.2
Third                                6.4               17.6
Fourth                               7.5              25.1
1987     First                                 8.0              33.1
Second                               8.0              41.1
Third                                8.8              49.9
Fourth                              14.3              64.2
1988     First                                16.4              80.6
Second                              18.0              98.6
Third                               18.8             117.4
Fourth                              19.2              136.6
1989     First                                20.0             156.6
Second                              18.8             175.4
Third                               12.3             187.7
Fourth                              12.2              199.9
1990     First                                11.5             211.4
Second                              10.9             222.3
Third                               10.8             233.1
Fourth                              10.2             243.3
1991     First                                 9.4             252.7
Second                               8.6             261.3
Third                                8.5             269.8
Fourth                               7.9             277.7
1992     First                                 6.3             284.0
Second                               6.0             290.0
1/ Runs from July 1 of a preceding year to June 30 of a current year.
2/ Figures shown under these columns give estimated accumulated
disbursements at the end of the corresponding quarters.



-8 6a -ANNEX 14
1~ 
F0~~~~~~ - --C  - -
*Q|-~~~~~~~~~~ -___________ - 
-        ---- -------
0 ~~~~~~~~~~~2                      0 
{ I L L XE [ A
02_
< ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ 2
Z ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                              
C)~
r          --   -     --
-2        -- - - - -          
E 
2                2     8-  - -   - -



ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Entreprse de Production, de Gestion et de Distribution
d'Eau d'Alger (EPEAL)
Organization Chart - 1984
Board of Directors
General Director
|Organization &   I                          I                                  .gl one 
Data Processing          o                                      MS-
|  ngineering, StuclieS      Personnel&     |e|OSeOatio  |                          Water Operations  |C| mmerlcRtial                  |           Finance
New Wors     AdminitratineSringSbDiesn                                               u-iso SeraPublDivislaionsBdetn
Production               Distribution
L & Treatment        I                 I 
H   Studies  |  H  Personnel | i Engineering | 4 Water Wells | | St tpong 0 | BitliColle|tion            A         Accounting
horhp                 Northe
uH l q ~~~~~Training            |       ub Dvsio -  Meters                                              | Sub-Division                 St_ ontrlk
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Es                                          NeWorkshop  Ws                    t          Sout ihsO- C u vson |  ugtrol
Sub-Division          Sub-Division
| South    r       |    W~est     [| Tesr 
ISub-DivisionL 
| Center |LT
IWSub-Division                                        a                                                  X
| West    r                                                                                               n
World Baink-26208



- 70 -
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 8
ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ENTREPRISE DE PRODUCTION, DE GESTION ET DE DISTRIBUTION
D'EAU D'ALGER (EPEAL)
Terms of Reference for Organization, Management and
Financial Studies
Introduction
1.       The  Government  of  Algeria  has  recently  established  a  regional
socialist enterprise to be responsible for the provision of drinking water and
the collection and treatment of wastewater within the territory of the Wilaya
of Algiers.   The enterprise,  "Entreprise  de  Production,  de  Gestion  et  de
Distribution d'Eau d'Alger (EPEAL)," replaces a former Socialist Enterprise of
Wilaya  "Societ6  des  Eaux  de  l'Agglomeration  d'Alger  (SEDAL)."   It  is  a
public-owned enterprise, financially autonomous and managed as a commercial
undertaking. EPEAL is a continuation of the former SEDAL, but is operating
under the tutelage of the Ministry of Hydraulics, and covers a larger
territory extending over the Wilaya of Algiers.
2.       EPEAL is designated as the agency which would be  responsible  for
operating new large water supply and sewerage schemes which are currently
being built by the Ministry of Hydraulics.   The total cost of the new works
(through 1989) is about US$950.0 million.  They include the construction of
two dams, a water treatment plant, water transmission and distribution mains,
sewage main collectors and a sewage treatment plant.  The sewerage component
is expected to become operational by 1987, and the water supply scheme by
1989. The Government has received a loan of US$ 82 million from the World
Bank to finance the sewerage project, and has requested a Bank loan of US$
245.0 million to finance part of the water supply system.
3.       Shortly after its establishment in 1978, SEDAL employed consultants
to advise on aspects of its organization and management, financial structure
and  tariff  policies.   The  consultants  completed  their  work  in  1980  and
submitted a set of reports; a list of the reports is given in the attachment.
They cover:



- 71 -
ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 8
(i)   definition  of  SEDAL's  organizational  structure,  statement  of
objectives for main functional units;
(ii)   plans for implementation of organization changes;
(iii)   a study for mechanization of data processing;
(iv)   manuals  for  material  controls,  fixed  assets  accounting,  and
billing and collection; and
(v) proposals for financial policies and tariff structure.
Objectives
4.       EPEAL is in the process of implementing the studies' recommendations
for organization and management.   This has  been,  however,  affected by  an
expansion of EPEAL's jurisdiction and plans for future expansion in systems
operation following the commissioning of the new works.   In order that EPEAL
should be fully equipped to discharge its responsibilities in a most effective
way, consultants are to be retained to update the studies, which were
completed under the previous assignment with regard to EPEAL's organization
and management and its financial structure and tariff policies.  The required
services are as follows.
Organization and Management Studies
5.       This part will comprise a review of the studies which were carried
out previously, an update of the organizational and management structure of
EPEAL, and the provision of assistance during the implementation of the
studies'  recommendations.   It is envisaged  that the consultants  management
assistance will cover (but will not necessarily be limited to) the following:
(i)  an   evaluation   of   progress   made   in  implementing   the
recommendations and systems of the previous study;
(ii) an update and definition of the broad lines of EPEAL's
organizational structure and its relationship with the
supervising  authority  and   the  other  agencies   of  the
Government and the Wilaya of Algiers;
(iii) an update of job description and statements of objectives for
all main functional departments;
(iv) development of detailed organization structure for all main
departments and divisions; and
(v) a plan of actions for a phased implementation of the
organizational changes.



- 72 -
ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 8
6.       Parallel  to the above-mentioned  activities,  the  consultant  should
review progress made in implementing the system procedures for billing and
collection,  material  control and fixed assets accounting.   This  task  will
involve updating  the manuals and instructions for their implementation, and
the  preparation  of   an  action  plan   to  continue   the   implementation.
Re-examination of billing and collection practices should take into account:
(a) phasing out of the master meters and use of individual meters; and
(b) the findings and recommendations of the second part of the study
on tariff structures.
7.       After completion and agreement on the organizational proposals, and
the updating of documents as per para. 6 above, the consultant is required to
proceed to a number of detailed tasks, as follows:
(i)  development of general and cost accounting manuals.   The Algerian
"Plan Comptable National" should be the base for the chart of
accounts and financial reports.  Special attention should be paid
to the fact that major capital works are carried out by the
Ministry's  agencies.   Accounting  for  liaison,   and  reporting
requirements  to  ensure  prompt  recording  of  these  works  and
associated transaction in EPEAL's books should be given full
attention;
(ii) development of budgeting system and procedures;
(iii) organization plan and staffing schedule for the establishment of a
budget section within the finance department; and
(iv) plan and staffing schedules for the establishment of an internal
audit function covering all aspects of the company's activities.
8.       As the work proceeds on items described in para. 6 and following the
completion of the tasks described in para. 7 above, the consultant should
assist EPEAL in implementing the organizational proposals, and the revised and
new systems and procedures.  EPEAL's staff would carry out the implementation
with assistance from the consultant mainly in the following areas.
(i)  overall  planning and coordination of the implementation process,
follow-up, reporting and update of schedules;
(ii)  training of EPEAL's staff assigned for implementation.   This will
include conducting workshops and provision of on-the-job training
to ensure smooth implementation;



- 73 -
ANNEX 16
Page 4 of 8
(iii) provision of guidance and establishment of procedures to reconcile
and consolidate EPEAL's current accounts, and establishment of
balances along the recommended chart of accounts; and
(iv)  special   attention   should   be   given   to   coordinating   the
implementation with the ongoing program of computerization of
EPEAL's activities.
Tariff Studies
9.       The financial and tariff studies, which were carried out under the
previous assignment, provided EPEAL with a set of projected tariffs for the
years 1980 through 1985.  They also included projected financial statements.
The assumptions retained for the studies' recommendations were:
(i) EPEAL should have a growing self-financing capacity of its
investment programs; and
(ii)  that  the  tariff  structure  should  be  progressive  based  on
quantities and types of water consumption.
10.      The  projected  self-financing  levels  and  tariffs  were  based  on a
number of assumptions regarding the expected capital and operating costs and
rates of inflation.
11.      Under the present assignment, the consultant is required to prepare a
tariff structure which SEDAL might use for charging water supply and sewerage
services, together with a schedule of proposed rates for the years 1986-1992.
In the course of this part of the study, the consultant is expected to update
forecasts of:
(a) Consumer use of the services, in terms of numbers of connections,
volume of water sold, and any other measures he considers
relevant; and
(b) the operating costs of the services, taking into account the
organization structure proposed in the organization and management
study, including depreciation of fixed assets value, and any taxes
or duties likely to be imposed on EPEAL.
12.      In developing his proposals for the tariff structure and rates, the
consultant should thoroughly examine and evaluate the following:
(a) the economic efficiency of the proposed tariffs, in terms of their
reflection of the estimated long-run marginal cost of the services;



- 74 -
ANNEX 16
Page 5 of 8
(b) the extent to which EPEAL's activities convey benefits to a
wider public than its own connected customers - for example, by
safeguarding health and protecting against stormwater damage -
and the possibility of recovering (by taxes or otherwise) such
benefits in the form of income for EPEAL;
(c) the effect (if any) of the proposed tariffs on the forecast of
water sales, and the adequacy of the resultant total revenues to
cover costs as defined in para. 11(b) above;
(d)  the extent to which identifiable groups or classes of consumers
impose special costs on the system, which should be reflected in
special charges to those consumers;
(e) the possibility and justification of charging to industries
rates which would take into account the quality of the liquid
wastes discharged by these industries;
(f) whether the proposed levels of charges are within the reasonable
ability-to-pay of all consumer groups, and whether a case exists
on these or any other grounds for concessionary rates to be
applied to particular consumer groups or levels of consumption;
(g) the effectiveness of the proposed water rates in discouraging
waste and inessential use of water, since this is EPEAL's policy;
(h) the means of recovering the cost of supplies delivered free
through public taps; and
(i) consistency of the tariffs with the methods of assessment and
billing which is to be reviewed under terms of reference (para.
6 above).
13.      The consultant  should review the cost of providing other services
associated with  the provision of  water by  EPEAL  to  its  customers.   They
include fees for meter rental and maintenance, new connections, special fees
for reading and billing of  individual meters,  etc.   The consultant  should
provide EPEAL with proposals for:
(a) methods for establishing the fees;
(b) uniform fees for all the operating districts, and a timetable
for their implementation; and
(c) methods for updating the costs of the services and a mechanism
for updating the fees.



- 75 -
ANNEX 16
Page 6 of 8
14.      On the basis of his forecasts of operating costs, future investments
and replacement of obsolete assets, and revenues available from the proposed
tariffs, the consultant should prepare projections of the resultant cash flows
from operations. The consultant is then required to propose:
(i)    the proportions in which it would be appropriate to apply this
cash flow to:
(a) debt service on borrowed funds; and
(b)  contributions   to   EPEAL's   current   or   future   capital
expenditures as set out in EPEAL's financial objectives.
(ii)    the proportions in which funds provided  to EPEAL by the
Government should accordingly be divided between capital
contributions and loans;
(iii)    the  appropriate  terms   (interest,   maturity   and   grace
periods) for any loan funds so provided; and
(iv)    the life expectancy of assets acquired or built with the
funds so provided.
15.      In carrying out this part of the studies,  it is expected that  the
consultant will wish to examine a number of alternatives.  In evaluating these
alternatives he should pay particular regard to the declared objectives of
Government with respect to the financing of investments by enterprises, as set
out in the Finance Law of 1984.   Similar consideration should be given to
EPEAL's financial objectives which should be determined in agreement with the
Government.
16.      At the conclusion of this part of the studies, the consultant should
prepare complete financial projections (income statements, balance sheets and
cash flow statements) for the recommended alternative.   In the event he wishes
to submit alternative schemes for consideration, financial projections should
be completed for each alternative.
Performance Indicators
17.      The final part of the studies comprises the updating of performance
indicators by which EPEAL's progress towards its objectives may be monitored.
The performance indicators should be capable of precise and unambiguous
expression,  and  within  the  capacity  of  EPEAL's  information  systems  to
calculate and report promptly and accurately.  They may include (but are not
necessarily limited to) cash generation ratios, balance sheet ratios, measures
of unit costs and service levels.  If appropriate, separate indicators may be
developed for different parts of the company's operation, including in
particular the water supply and sewerage operations.



- 76 -
ANNEX 16
Page 7 of 8
18.      The consultant should  establish  within  EPEAL  the  methodology  for
updating the findings of the tariff study and the preparation of updated
projections.  To ensure that this task is carried out properly, the consultant
should:
(i)    provide relevant training to EPEAL's assigned staff during the
preparation of the studies; and
(ii)    coordinate this task with the development of budget systems and
the setting up of a budgeting section (para. 7 (ii and iii).
Timetables and Reports
19.      It  is  envisaged  that  the  organization/management  study  and  the
tariff/financial study will be carried out in parallel, and an elapsed time of
not more than 12 months (from mobilization of the consultant's team in
Algiers) is allowed for completion of the studies.  Assistance in implementing
the organizational changes and new systems (para. 8) will continue for another
12 months.
20.      The following reports are to be submitted:
(i)  not  later than the end of the sixth month, a first report on
organization and management, containing recommendations on the
matters  set out  in terms of reference  (paras. 5 and 6).  Two
months will be allowed for consideration of this report by the
Authorities, discussion with the consultant, and determination
of any revision which may be necessary;
(ii) not later than the end of the eight month, revised manuals as
per para. 7 should be submitted together with a detailed
implementation plan; and
(iii) by the end of the twelfth month of the assignment:
(a)  a   final   report   on   organization   and   management,
incorporating any revision made to the first report and
including an updated plan of action for implementation; and
(b)  a  report  on  tariffs  and  finance,  covering  the  matters
described in terms of reference (paras. 11-18) and setting
out the financial projections referred to in para. 16 of
the terms of reference.
21.      The interim reports are to be submitted in 20 copies, and the final
reports in 50 copies, in the French language, and delivered initially to the
Director General of EPEAL.



- 77 -
ANNEX 16
Page 8 of 8
Proposals
21.      Proposals in five copies in the French language should be submitted
by --------------------to:
23.      Proposals should contain, inter alia:
(a) a description of the consulting firm (or firms) and its areas of
specialism;
(b) a description of other relevant assignments previously carried
out by the firm;
(c) an explanation of the way in which the consultant proposes to
approach the assignment, including any comment he may wish to
make on the terms of reference or any modifications he may wish
to propose in the interests of better achieving the objectives
of the assignment;
(d) a brief description of any special methodology to be employed
(for example, use of computers);
(e) a staffing chart for the assignment, showing each specialist to
be employed and indicating the nature and duration of his
involvement (distinguishing time in Algeria from time at the
home office);
(f) an explanation of how supervision of the assignment is to be
maintained by the firm's principals;
(g) curricula vitae of key personnel nominated for the assignment;
and
(h) a statement of any special facilities the consultant may require
in carrying out the assignment.
24.      Proposals will be judged on technical merit and fees.  Any assistance
the Algerian authorities may be able to provide in regard to accommodation,
local transportation and other administrative matters should be indicated in
the proposal.



- 78 -
ANNEX 16
Attachment
Page 1 of 2
ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ENTREPRISE DE PRODUCTION, DE GESTION ET DE DISTRIBUTION
D'EAU D'ALGER (EPEAL)
Organization, Management and Financial Studies
List of Reports and Documents Prepared under SEDAL's Study (1980)
Report/Document Title                                               Date
Organization and Management
1.  Evolution de la Structure d'Organisation                (June 1980)
2.  Manuel:  Gestion des Abonnes (Vols. 1-2)                (March 1980)
3.  Nomenclature des Stocks                                 (March 1980)
4.  Manuel:  Achats - Stocks                                (March 1980)
5.  Manuel:  Gestion du Fichier des Immobilisations         (March 1980)
6. Instructions Pour l'Initialisation du Fichier
des Immobilisations                                    (March 1980)
7. Definition de la Politique de Mechanisation
de Traitement                                          (August 1979)
8.  Resum6 de Mise au Point du Projet                       (March 1980)
Finance and Tariffs
1. Options de Structure Financiere et de la
Politique Tarifaire                                    (January 1980)
2.  Propositions de Principes de Politiques Tarifaires   (January 1980)
3. Cout Marginal Moyen a Long term de l'Eau Potable
d'Alger                                                (January 1980)



- 79 -
ANNEX 16
Attachment
Page 2 of 2
4. Note Relative aux Amortissements Pris en Compte
dans le Prix de Revient de l'Eau                         (January 1980)
5. L'Externalite du Projet d'Assainissement des
Eaux de la Ville d'Alger                                (January 1980)
6. Les Indicateurs Financiers a Utiliser pour
le Controle de 1'Execution du Projet
d'Assainissement des Eaux de la Ville d'Alger           (January 1980)



ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJELT
EPEAL: INCl0NE STATEMENTS - ACTUAL (1983) AND PROJECiED (1984-1992)
DA MILLIONS
FISCAL YEAR ENDINZ DEC:EMBER 31
1983          1984           1985          1986           1987          1988           1989           1990          1991           1992
WATER PO)DUCED (MIL. M3)         135.90        144.00         150.20        150.20         150 20        150.20         265 10         274.60        285 20         296.30
UNACCCkJN     FCR WATER %           .36           .36           .35            .34            .33           .32            .31            .30           .29            .28
WATER SOLD (MimLION M3)           86.98         92.16          97.63         99.13         100.63        102.14         182.92         192.22        202 49         213 34
AVI1RAGE TARIFF (DA/M3)             .98          1.20           1 40          1.61           1.70          1.83           1 95           2 25          2.50           2 60
REVENUES
W4ATER SALES                      84.80        110.59         136.68        159.60         171.08        186.91         356.69        432.49         505.89         554.67
MEE  RENrAL &MAINr?IANCE           7.82          8.37          9.65          16.79          17 93         29.79          38.03         47.17          55.12          63 64
NEW CONNECTIONS                    2.85          3 42          8 47          14.45          15.72         16.30          18. 12        19.85           5.94           5.90
UIHER REVENUES                    3.13           2.69          2 77           2 94           3.12          3.29           3.47          3 64           4.75           5 84
TOTAL REVUVJES                    98.60        125.07         157-57        193.78         207.85        236 Z9         416.31        503.15         571.70         630.05
.JPEATLNG EXPENSES
_________________
PEPSOtNEL                       48.54          51.93         55.23          57.32          59.80         65.50          76 79         8U.56          84 69          88.64
IGkRY & FUEL                     21.65          22.71         23.80          25 20         26.67          29.34          54.01         64 60          69.56          73.61
MkTERIAIS & MAINW.                18.41         19.87         25.05          31.37         33.92          42.53          69.45         82.24          78-95          83.50
TXES                              6.41           7.98          8.90           9.96          11.05         13.49          19.90         3i.34          34.47          36.94
AIMIN. EXP. & OHERS               3.80           4.28          4.96           5.76          6.18           6.19           7.82          8.33           7.89           8.27
LESS: CAP. EXPENSES              (16.73)       (14.60)       (15.10)        (15.60)       (i6.10)        (16.60)        (17.10)       (17.60)        (18.20)        (18.90)
SUB-TOTAL                        82.08          92.17         102.84        114.01         121.52        141 05         210.87        249.47         257.36         272.06
DEPRECIATION                     36.08          37.02         37.66          38.34         47.17          69.94         116.72        156.52         163.67         164 52
"ITAL EXPE14SES                  i18.16        129.19         140.50        152.35         168.69        210.99         327.59        405 98         4Z1.03         436 58
NET OPERATING INEh               (19.55)        (4.12)         17.08         41.43          39.i7         25.30         88.72          97.17         156.u6         193.47
INMEREST                            .15           .94          1.30           1.36         16.82          32.75         30.71         129 06         164.27        159.76
lrT INCME                        (19.70)        (5.06)         15.78         40.07         22.35          (7.45)         58 01        (31.89)        (13 61)         33.71
OPERATINS RATIO                    1.20          1.03            .89           .79           .81            .89           .79            .81            .74           .69



- 81 -
ANNEX 18
ALGIERSi KEGIONAL WATER SUIPLY 10L1I0
I:EAL: SDORCES AND APPLICATIONS (F FUNDS - ACr'IAL (1983) & PRJECTED (1984-1992)
DA MILLIOSN
1983           1984           1985           1986            1987           1988           1989            1990           199%           199Z
USES OF FPU)S
CAPIAL INVfS1iTS
PWPOSWDPROJET                           -         332.90         353.10         765 50          977.90         821.30        '44.10                -              -              -
OTHE11  CAPITAL EXP.               151.79         168.7U         232.00 U24.00                 U26.UU           32 50          L34 00         140.50         197 UO         213 50
CAPITALIZED INTEREST                J3.66           7.41          13.09          32.81           44.72          b7-92         105.14           3 70            9 UO2         15 15
7TOAL INVESmENITS                  155.45         509 U1         598.79        1,022.31       1,248.U2         921 72         t83.24          164.20         2ub.UUt       2U8.65
UiCEEASE (DofiEASE) IN
WOSKING CAPITAL                     10.17         (25.43)         22.29           4.95           (9.00)        (16.73)         46.01          (22.73)          5.99          14.59
LEST SERVICE
- INTERESr                           .15            .94           1.30           1 36           16.82          32.75          30 71         129.U6          164.Z7         159.76
- AMERTZ. OF IOANS                   .86           1.84           2.36           2.36           17.01          30,31          30.32          112.U1         113 i9         114.U9
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                   1.01           2.78           3.66           3.72           33.83          63.06          bl.U           241.07         277.56         Z73.85
UTrAL USES OF FPU)S                166.63         486.36         624.74       1,030.98        1,273.45         968.05         790.28          382.54         489.55         517.09
SOURCES OF FPITS
OPERATING INOItlE
BEFR0E DEPRECIATION                 16.52          32 90          54.73          79.77           86.33          95.24         205.44          253.69         314.34         357.99
Ba(M3CS
- EXlST0II  i8RD WAN              27.L8           87.09          98.65         116.93          114.21              -              -               -              -              -
- PWO9OSED IBRD LOAN                  -               -              -          71.68          244 95         346,94         260.65         149.76          109.9Z              -
- OI1L LT 10AN2S                    -               -              -          20.36           68.12          96.34         124.29         105.28           97 36              -
-MED.-TERM Sb (WGc                  3.00           4.50           5.00           5.50            6.00           t.-0           7 00           7 UO            7 50           7.50
19TAL BOSROWINGS                    30.18          9L.59         103.65         214.47          433.28         449 68         391.94          262.U4         214.78           7 50
llSL018S CONTRIBUIlONS              16.46          1OWO           10.50          11.00           11.0o          11.50          12.00           12 50          13 00          13.50
OVERRNE2T 0X%TR1800IBND            103.47         351.87         455.86         725.74          742 84         411 83         180.90         (145.68)        (52 57)        138.10
IUTTAL SOURCES OF FLNOS            166.63         486.36         624.74       1,030.98        1.273.45         968.05         790.28          382.54         489 55         517.U9



- 82 -
ANNEX 19
ALGIRS REGIONAL  kI4TER SUPPLY PRO1E1CT
EPEAL.  BALANCE SHEETS - ACI9AL (1983) AND PRO.ECTEB (1964-1992)
DA MILL.IONS
1983           1984            1985           1986            1987            1986           1989            19%s           1991            1992
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
GROSS FIXED ASSETS               1,326.29        1,346.29       1,369.z9        1,394.29        2,246.00       3 i93.58        5 836 21       6,336 64       64368.b4         6,401.64
LESS ACCUM3. DEMECIATION           696.76          733.78         77. 43          809.78          856.94         926.88        1,043.61        1,200 i2       1,363.80        1 528.32
- - - - -- - - -       - - - -         -- ---         --------        --- - -        -  --- -        -- - - -        - - - -   -     -- - -
NET FIXED ASSES                629.53         612.51          597.66          584.51       1,389.u6        2, Z66 70      4 79Z.00        5,t36.52        5,004.64       4,73.32
W6R1 IN PROGRESS                124 14          613.5        1,188.94        2,186.15        2.583 16       2,557.30          597.91         261.68          435.68         631.33
TOTAL FIXED ASS1                 753.67        1,225 66       1,786.80        2,770.76        3,972.22       4,824.00        5,390.51       5,398.20        5 440 52        5 504.65
CURREhTr ASSETS
STOCOS                              38.84           42.00         4'5.o            38.0D           3600           3b.U0           57 00          7400           74. o           78.50
RBCEIVABIES                         97.79           89.00          110.00         115.35          108352          93 Of          137.00          118.0o         630 00          149. LO
OrHEM DEBIT ACCOUNTS                30.86           21 00           18.00          17.70           19.0o          15.40           10.00           il.00          14.00           13.00
rASH                                19.70            8.90           9 8o          1WSM             12.00          15.70           19.00          22.30           23.00           24.30
TOTAL CUIRENT ASSTS                187.19          160.9           182.80         181.65          175.52          160.o1         223.00          225.30         241.00          z64.a0
- - - - --     - -- -- ---     - -- ----      ------          - -- -- ---    ------          - -- -----     - -- -----      - -- ----       - -- ----
TOTAL ASSE S                      940.86        1,386.56        1,969 40       2,952.41        4,L47.74       4.964.10        5 413.51        5.623.50       5,681.52        5 769.45
EQUITY & LIABILITIES
1OVERBNhTT C(TIRIBUTION            896.41        1,248.28        1,704 13       2,429.87        3,.72.71       3,584.34        3,765 24       3,619.55        i 566.99        3 705.06
1USI1MERS 1ONT3{I8UTNS              40.33           50.33           60 83          71.83           82.83          94.33          106.33          118.83         21 83           145.33
PETAINED E8RINGS                   (87.o6)         (92.12)         (76.35)        (36.28)         (13.93)        (21.38)          36 t2           4.73           (8.87)          24.84
-- - --       -   --- -       -  - - -        --- ---         -- - -          - ---  --_------ - -    ------  - -    --_------    - -   - ------ -- -
UTOTAL EQIITY                      849.67        1,206.48        1,688.62       2,465 42        3,241.61       3.657.29        3 908.19       3.743.12        3,689.94        3,875.25
IONG & MEDIUM TERM  DEBT
1BRD (EXISTINS)                     27.8L          LL4.27         212.92          3L6.79          404.88         378.76          352.t4          326.52         300 40          Z74.Z2
IBRD (PROPOSED)                         -               -               -          71.68          316.63         663.57          865.02         955.58        1,006.30          947.10
OTHER LT BORROWIl4                      -               -                          20.36           68.48         184.82          287.22          370.6l         446.08          424.19
TDTAL LOW, TLHN DEBT                27.18          L14.27          212.92         408.83          809 99       6,227.2 ;           ,504.88     1,652.71       L,75Z 78        L,45. 57
MEDIUM TERM DEBT                    12.46           14.60           17.24          18.80           20 60          22.80           25 00           25.90          26.53           25.73
TOTAL  ORROWI2                     39.64           28.87         230.16          427.63          830.59       1,249.95        1,529.88        1,678.61       1,779.31        1 671.30
CfLRRENT LIABILITIES
- ----- -- -- -----
CUSTOMERS DEPOSITS                   1.73            L.85            1.96           2.36            2.73           3.04            3.43            3.96           4 17            4.3a
SUPPLIERS                           40.84           39.00           38.00          36.00           39.00          36.00           53 uO           77.00          86.oo           93.00
OTHER PAYABLE ACCOUhTS               7.14            8.00           6 50            4.U0            3.50           7.50            7.0O            7.50           8.UO           lo.O
IEURRErT MATURITIES                  1.84            2.36           2.36           17.00           30 31          30.32          112 01          113.31         114.10          115.52
-----          ----   - --- _---- -- -----    ------ --        _- -----      - -- - - - -_-                  - -- ----      - -- -----      - -- ----
TOTAL CUPRENT LIA31LITIES           51.55           51.21           50.82          59.36           75.54          74.66          175.44          201.77         212.27          222.90
- -- - - --    ------          -----   - -- -- - - - - - ---   - - - - ----           - -------              -- -- ---       _ -- -----     - -- -- ---
TOTAL EO,LTY & LLABILITIES         940.86        1 386 56       1,969.40        2,952.41        4,147 74       4 984.L0        5 663.5L        5,623.50       5.681.52        5 769 45
DEBT EQUITY RATIO                4:96           10:90          12:88           15:85           20:80          25:75           28:72          31:69           32:68           30:70
1



- 83 -
ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 4
ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Analysis
Income Statements
1.       Internal Inflation:  The following inflation rates were used:
1984 - 1988 - 7%
1989 - 1990 - 6%
1991 - 1992 - 5%
2.       Operating Revenues
(i)  Projection of Water Sales
Future water sales are assumed to increase slightly during
the period 1984-1988, as a result of expected improvement in
unaccounted-for water which is projected to reach 28% in
1992. Sales include additional sales which are expected as a
result of extending EPEAL's area of operation (1984-1985 and
onward).  Water sales from 1989 onward are projected on the
basis of expected demand and the production levels as
envisaged under the project.
(ii)  Water Revenues
Water revenues for 1984 and 1985 are based on the assumption
that the tariff increase would be introduced as from July 1,
1984.  It is expected that the following increase would be
applied,  starting  from  1986,  on  the  basis  of  proposed
financial objectives by EPEAL.   Tariff  increases  throughout
the projection period are expected to be on average 7%
annually.
(iii)  Meter Rental and Maintenance
These were projected on the basis of the following:
(a) EPEAL will complete its gradual phasing out of the
master metering and the introduction of individual
meters  by  1989.   Meters  for  replacement  and  new
connections would be on a rental basis (currently about
20% of individual meters are rented).



- 84 -
ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 4
(b)  All  rates  for  meter  rentals  and  fees  for  meter and
connection maintenance would also be uniform through
EPEAL's   area   of   operation.    These   rates   vary
substantially between operating districts (between a
total of DA 26.0 and DA 54.0 for a meter of same
diameter).
(c)  Special fees for metering and renting individual meters
(currently DA 60.0 and DA 28.0 respectively per meter)
would be replaced once the phasing out of master meters
is completed, by the uniform rate (para. 2 (iii(b)).
The projected rates are based on the expected cost of
providing  the  service.   They  are  calculated  for  the
mid-year average number of connections.
(iv) New Connections
Connections are the  property  of  the  customers.   They  are
billed at their cost, plus a service tax of 11.1X (currently
at about DA 1,700 and DA 200 for master meters and individual
meters  respectively).   From 1986 onward all new connections
are projected to be individual.
3.       Operating Expenses
(i)  Personnel:   Personnel expenses are projected to increase  on
the basis of the forecast number of staff based on a
decreasing ratio of employees  per  population  served.   New
staff for operating the new project and sewerage facilities
are taken into account in the following years of operations.
(ii)  Energy and Fuel:  Future levels of consumption are projected
assuming gradual improvement of efficiency.  Energy required
for operating the project and the sewerage facilities are
estimated on the basis of the 1984 prices adjusted for
inflation.
(iii) Materials and Maintenance: Their quantities are based on the
estimated number of new connections, the current maintenance
programs,  and  consumption  of  chemicals.   The  projections
include operations' requirements for the new facilities to be
constructed under the project and the sewerage project based
on consumption requirements.



- 85 -
ANN1EX 20
Page 3 of 4
(iv)  Taxes:  Calculated according to their nature:  a tax of 2.53%
on gross revenues, a tax of 11.1% on all purchases of
materials plus a 6% tax on salaries.
(v)  Capital Expenses:   This  represents  the cost of connection
extensions (material, labor, overhead, and taxes) included in
the foregoing items which are constructed by EPEAL and are
incorporated in its assets.
(vi)  Depreciation:  Calculated at straight-line rates based on the
estimated  service  lives  of  major  assets  components.   The
annual average depreciation rates approximates 2.5% through
the projection period, which is somewhat lower than usual
because of the dams.
Balance Sheets and Statements of Sources and Application of Funds
EPEAL's Balance Sheet for 1982
4.       EPEAL's  Balance  Sheets  for  1982  were  adjusted  to  reflect  the
following:
(i)    The  incorporation  in EPEAL's fixed assets of the water supply
facilities which were constructed by the DWHA during the period
1980-1982 for EPEAL's account.   The net value of the works is
incorporated in the assets.
(ii)    A decrease of the accounts receivable for unidentified accounts
inherited from EPEAL's predecessors.  According to EPEAL's audit
report (1981), 43% of the receivables would have to be
written-off  through  reconciliation  and  consolidation  of  past
accounts (currently under way).
(iii)    Change in EPEAL's equity to reflect the above adjustments.
Accounts Receivable
5.       Receivables for water consumption are assumed  to decline  following
improvements in billing and collection envisaged under the project and are
based on target collection periods. Accounts receivable are expected to reach
three  months  of  billing  by  1990.   Other  accounts  are  projected  to  vary
slightly over the projection period.
Inventories
6.       In 1983 inventories  represented  about  12 months  of consumption of
materials and chemicals.  This high level is expected to decrease through the
implementation of the materials control system which is currently under way.
A declining level is therefore projected to reach an annual average level of
six months by 1990.



- 86 -
ANNEX 20
Page 4 of 4
Accounts Payable
7.       They are projected as follows:
(i) Customers' deposits - in accordance with EPEAL's program for
installing a uniform system of metering (para. 2 (iii)).
Deposit per customer is calculated on an average six-month
consumption, plus other fees, and is adjusted along expected
tariff increases.
(ii)  Suppliers (including retention money):  A declining ratio per
month of total purchase of materials and EPEAL's routine
investments  is projected.   This  ratio  is assumed  to  reach
three months of total purchase (excluding the projected
investments for which working capital would be financed by
the implementing agencies).
Long and Medium-Term Loans
8.       They  include  loans  to  the  Government  for  the  project,  like  the
proposed Bank loan and commercial banks's loan, which would be partly
reimbursed by EPEAL to the Government. Conditions of the reimbursement are as
follows:
(i)  Proceeds of the existing Bank loan (Loan 1545-AL).   Charges
on the loan (7.45% interest, repayment over 17 years plus 3
years  of  grace)  are  calculated  as  per  the   existing
Reimbursement Agreement and assuming that EPEAL will start
repaying  the  loan  plus  interest  during  construction  by
January 1, 1987.
(ii)  Proceeds  of  the  proposed  Bank  loan,  which  are  to  be
reimbursed by EPEAL.  Charges on the loan are assumed to be
at an of  interest  rate of  10%.  The  loan is repayable in
twenty-five years including five years of grace.
(iii)  Other loans include projected loans from various sources to
cover the foreign exchange requirements.   It is assumed that
EPEAL would repay these loans with an interest rate of 11%,
over a 20-year period including five years of grace.   This
item includes borrowing expected for financing the next major
investments   (1990   and   after)   on   similar   terms   and
conditions.
(iv)  Current  and  projected  medium-term  loans:   These  are  from
local government-owned development and commercial banks for
financing EPEAL's portion of investments.   They are  charged
at 5.5% annual interest rate and are payable over five years
plus two years of grace.



ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
Indicators                                 1986         1987        1988        1989        1990        1991        1992
I.  Staffina
Total Staff 1/                             1,280        1,283       1,334       1,454       1,454        1,454      1,454
Staff Per 10,000 People Served                48           46          46          48          46           45         43
II.  Systems operations
Water Produced  106 m3/year                  150.20       150.20      150.20      265.10       274.60      285.20    296.30
Water Sold, 10  m3/year                      99.13       100.63      102.14      182.92       192.22      202.49    213.34
Unaccounted-for Water %                       34           33          32          31           30          29         28
III. Finance
Operating Ratio %2                            79           81          89          79          81           74         69
Debt Equity Ratio x                           15:85        20:80       25:75       28:72       31:69        32:68      30:70
Debt Service Coverage (times)                 21.5          2.5         1.5          3.4         1.1         1.1        1.3
Average Rate in DA per m3 Sold                 1.61         1.70        1.83         1.95        2.25        2.50       2.60
Collection Period (day)3                     238          207         165         125           90          90         90
Self-financing Ratio %                        7%           7%          7%          7%           7%         15%        25%
I/ At year end (December 31).
2/ Total operating expenses divided by total revenues x 100.
3/ Accounts recievable at a given date divided by daily average of billing.



- 8a  -
ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 2
ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS FOR ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
1.       The project costs are those of the initial works and for equipment
renewal,  in order  to  utilize  fully  the  project faci-li ties.   The  operating
costs for the proposed water supply project are expressed in constant prices.
Both the capital and operating costs are taken net of taxes and customs
duties.   Taxes  are  calculated  to amount  to about  15 percent  of the  total
project cost, and customs duties to about 25 percent of the cost of imported
materials and equipment.
2.        The following assumptions have been made in calculating the internal
rate of return:
(a)  the average life of the assets is 50 years;
(b)  since there  is no excess capacity at present,  all  incremental
-water sales are credited to the project;
(c)  all values  in the cost  and benefit  streams  are  expressed  in
terms of the 1984 price levels, in order to achieve a common
base  for the caiculation.   The additional  quantities of water
provided are valued at the tariff of DA 1.61/m3; and
(d)  only  the  incremental  operating  costs  are  charged  to  the
project.  All  operating costs are  adjusted  to the  1984  price
levels by an annual  inflation factor of about 7 percent.   The
incremental operating cost in each year is then the difference
between the adjusted operating costs and the 1984 operating
costs.
Long-Run Average Incremental Cost of Water
3.       The  following  gives  the  long-run  average  incremental  cost  of
providing water to the Algiers IWJilaya, at various discount rates:



- 89 -
ANNEX 22
Page 2 of 2
Discount       Volumes        Total Cost       Increment
Rate, %      Discounted      Discounted      Cost, DA/m3
6           1,370.1          1,765.4           1.28
8             983.3          1,627.1           1.65
9             846.3          1,570.0           1.85
10             734.9          1,518.9           2.06
11             643.3          1,472.5           2.29
Rate of Return
4.       Using the above data for future investments,  the economic rate of
return using tariffs of today as a proxy for benefits is 8 percent.



- 90 -
ANNEX 23
AURIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CAIJLATION OF TIE ICNG-RUN AVERAGE MASICIAL COST OF WATER 1/
Increaental  Capital Costs Operating Expenses   Equipment
Sales     Water Supply       Water Supply       Renewal        TOTAL
Year       Mm3          Works             System           Costs         COSTS
(1)       (2)            (3)              (4)                (5)          (6)
1984      -             197.1  2/          -                  -          197.1
1985      -             189.7              -                  -          189.7
1986      -            389.3               -                  -          389.3
1987      -            460.7               -                  -         460.7
1988      -            358.0               -                  -          358.0
1989     79.3           180.2               5.1              -           185.3
1990     87.0            -                 10.7              -            10.7
1991     95.8            -                20.2               -            20.2
1992     105.1           -                20.4               -            20.4
1993    115.0            -                20.5               -            20.5
1994     116.6           -                20.5               -            20.5
1995     118.2           -                20.5               -            20.5
1996     118.2           -                20.5               -            20.5
1997     118.2           -                20.5               -            20.5
1998    118.2            -                20.5               -           20.5
1999     118.2           -                20.5               -            20.5
2000     118.2           -                 20.5               -           20.5
2001     118.2            -                20.5               -           20.5
2002     118.2           -                 20.5               -           20.5
2003     118.2            -                20.5               -           20.5
2004     118.2           -                 20.5               -           20.5
2005     118.2            -                20.5               4.8         25.3
2006     118.2           -                 20.5               5.2         25.7
2007     118.2            -                20.5               5.0         25.5
2008     118.2           -                 20.5               -           20.5
2009     118.2            -                20.5               -           20.5
2010     118.2           -                 20.5               -           20.5
2011     118.2           -                 20.5               -           20.5
2012     118.2           -                 20.5               -           20.5
2013     118.2            -                20.5               -           20.5
2014     118.2           -                 20.5               5.4         25.9
2015     118.2           -                 20.5              -            20.5
2016     118.2            -                20.5               -           20.5
2017     118.2            -                20.5               -           20.5
2018     118.2           -                 20.5               -           20.5
2019     118.2            -                20.5               -           20.5
2020     118.2            -                20.5               -           20.5
2021     118.2            -                20.5               -           20.5
2022     118.2           -                 20.5               -           20.5
2023     118.2            -                20.5               -           20.5
2024     118.2            -                20.5               -           20.5
2025     118.2            -                20.5               -           20.5
2026     118.2            -                20.5               -           20.5
2027     118.2            -                20.5               -           20.5
2028     118.2           -                 20.5               7.2         27.7
2029     118.2            -                20.5               5.0         25.5
2030     118.2            -                20.5               -           20.5
2031     118.2            -                20.5               -           20.5
2032     118.2            -                20.5               -           20.5
2033     118.2           -                 20.5              (8.1)        12.4
1/ All values in the cost and revenue streams are expressed in terms of the
1984 price levels and in DA Million.
2/ Of which DA 105.4 million represent sunk costs.



- 91 -
ANNEX 24
ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJEC?
DISURIBUTION OF AMNUAL EXPENSES BY OUSEHDLDS IN GREATER ALGIERS _/
(DA Per Capita)
POPUlATION PERCEN1YLE
ITEM                                                                                                            Average
10       20       30       40        50       60       70       80        90        Percentage
1. POTABLE WAIER SUPPLY         14       17       19       25        25       26       29        32       34           0.8
2. Bread - Cereals             247      298      340       291      295      305      224       245      257            7.5
3. Fresh Fruits and
Vegetables               294      355      404      394       400      413      426      465       490          15.1
4.  Soft Drink                 337      406      463       414      420      433      376       411      432           13.6
5. Meat - Fish                 296      357      407      428       435      448      525       574      604           17.4
6. Dry Fruits and
Vegetables                37       44       51       48        49     ' 51       47       47        54            1.3
7. Clothes and Shoes           188      227      258      262       267      275      280       306      322           6.9
8. Housing                      90      108      123       156      158      164      188       206      216           5.3
9. Electricity and Gas          21       24       29        35       36       37       42        46       49            1.2
10. Furniture                   129      155      177      180       182      188      208       229      239           7.0
11. Health Care                 65        79       90       88        90       93       90        98      104           2.7
12. Transportation               92      111      126      191       194      200      320       354      367           8.9
13. Education, Recreation        61       74       84       94        96       99      152       166      175           4.4
14. Other                       172      207      236      246       250      258      200       218      230           7.9
TOTAL ANNUAL EXPENSES         2,3    2,462    2,807    2,852    2,897    2,990    3,107    3,397    3,573              100.0
I/   The average size of a household is 6.8 persons.



- 92 -
ANNEX 25
ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1. Etude G6n6rale Compl6mentaire sur l'Am6nagement Isser-Keddara-Hamiz et
Etude Sommaire d'Identification sur l'Am6nagement du Sebaou (4 Volumes),
Hydrotechnic Corporation, July 1980.
2.  Avant-Projet  Preliminaire,  Projet   Sebaou-Alger-Mitidja,   Hydrotechnic
Corporation, November 1977
3. Options de Structure Financiere et de Politique Tarifaire Proposees pour
la SEDAL, Peat, Marwick and Mitchell & Co., Consultants, January 1980.
4. Propositions de Principes de Politiques Tarifaires, Peat, Marwick and
Mitchell & Co., Consultants, January 1980.
5.  Cout Marginal Moyen a Long-Terme de l'Eau Potable Distribu6e dans  le
Grand Alger, Peat, Marwick and Mitchell & Co., Consultants, January 1980.
6. Evolution de la Structure d'Organisation de la SEDAL, Peat, Marwick and
Mitchell & Co., Consultants, June 1980.
7.  Detailed Design of Keddara Dam, Tesco-Viziterv.
8. Water Code - Law No. 83-17 of July 16, 1983.
9. Loi de Finances, Official Journal, December 31, 1983.
10.  Creation of Regional Water Companies, Official Journal, May 17, 1983.
11.  Alger - Alimentation en Eau Potable - Etude Preliminaire, Kittelberger -
Inco, 1970.
12.  Depenses  de  Consommation  des  Menages  Algeriens  (2  Volumes),  Office
National des Statistiques, July 1983.
13.  Recensement G6neral de la Population et de l'Habitat, 1966, Direction des
Statistiques.
14.  Population et Habitat des Villes et Chefs Lieux Au Recensement de 1966,
Direction des Statistiques.
15.  Etude Sectorielle d'Approvisionnement en Eau Potable et d'Assainissement
(2 Volumes), 1976.
16.  Formation du Personnel a la SEDAL, Hans Peter Haug.



~~~~~lmOISE 16088
ALGERIA
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
URBAN AREAS TO BE SERVED                           i       0          : -
AIN TAYA .
' ALGIERS                                                    R ;  UI
,._~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A~IMDl& LS jI l      }0SOULA ,                                                                        _   LIR  VLMT
B,RMfl~p \  ..  2,                  ;BOR   E L KE I FFA
JRBAN AREAS TO1 BE SERVED
SAOULA   '                                                                           51R IyLMT
- GREATER ALGlEES' L MIRS
D ISTRICT AND TOINSHN   I BONNIER ES
(                                                                                       ES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISTING SEDAN AREAS, IS7"
1'INDUSTHIAl AREA5. 19/I
NTLRBENAEIIIA  ROJDIARIES                                                                                  MAIN ROADS
././  A S      *,_ ____                /    \N/                                    RIVSER
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.






IBRD 16089R
ALGIERS REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
A4edpt~~~~~~~r  o5'~~~~~~~~~~'t  >~~~~~2C~~~~                                                                                         Gon'!Tta    Lqyout
[ 40  iA                                         Wot.r S.itrly Pipeli
So       -      1 HAACH '-.  A'                           Wot,,, T;lttn Pl-nt                                                   ;             ,,                                   200                      Mo nMiitn
g.                                                                                                                                                                    2)       Q)             P..p,ng~~~~~~~~~~Zeonooi      St.t-ot
~~~61 4 51  Hm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WI, Doy   I'E  ~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~    ~     0Stora.ge T-Jnk                           6' 35N
Kheddo  ~~~~zoc          .-~~~       Well F old
e   2 _ift,                                                                                                                         M.,, R..d , <  V    <   li d u r o  *,  tE f     u  E  r   Cotour i
H ... h F,& K' :09   'd                                                            T-                                                                                 A l02            Eleti     n Meter
K ;;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t i; >t lo t -.i,0,D D1 B S -!  -/ 
-H-i- D-                                                                                                                                            -            INrn:t n _n|
1.-/ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~ ~       D    .   .
Ng~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~AN7
0  5     0        15        20       5
~~$            _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _ _   >,                                                                                 4-  7



