FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
No-         -'Jse
Report No. 200a-SU
APPRAISAL OF
THE INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
SUDAN
October 15, 1973
Development Finance Companies Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted |
,or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the |
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
100 Sudanese Piasters = 1 Pound Sudanese (is)
1 as.                 = US $ 2.872
1 US $                = 34.8 Piasters



APPRAISAL
OF
THE INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA ....................................i
SUMMARY  .....        .i.......................................    ii
I.    INTRODUCTION .            .................................1
II.    THE INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENT
Role of Private and Public Sectors   .......
Scope for Industrial Investment  ....            ......       3
Financing of Industry  .....            ...............      4
Industrial Consultancy Organization  (ICO).                   5
Industrial Production Corporation (IPC)                       5
III.    THE COMPANY
Charter ...       ...............................             6
Operating Policies  ...... ...............                    6
Lending Terms  .        .............. .............          7
Procurement and Disbursement Procedures  ..                   7
Board of Directors  ......... .............                   8
Management  ...8..........................                    8
Organization and Staffing  ................                   9
Audit    ....................................                10
IV.    OPERATIONS, PORTFOLIO AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Past Operations ..........................                   10
Portfolio ................................                   11
Guarantees  ...............................                 12
Provisions  ...............................                  12
Financial Results  ........................                  12
Financial Position  .......................                  13
V.    PROSPECTS
Operational Forecasts  .....             ...............     13
Resource Requirements  .....             ...............    14
Projected Income and Profitability               .......     15
Projected Balance Sheets  ....             .............     15
Disbursement  .............................                  15
VI.    CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ....               ...........     15
This report was prepared by Messrs. Khalil Nougaim and Zia Ahmed on the basis
of their mission to Sudan in February/March 1973.



- 2 -
List of Annexes
Annex  1       Extracts from the By-Laws
Annex  2       Board of Directors, as of August 31, 1973
Annex  3       Organization Chart
Annex  4       Job Description for Investment Advisor
Annex  5       Analysis of Approved Loans
Annex  6       Summary of Operations
Annex  7       Analysis of Guarantees Approved
Annex  8       Income Statements
Annex  9       Balance Sheets
Annex 10       Assumptions for Financial Projections
Annex 11       Projected Operations
Annex 12       Projected Resources Position
Annex 13       Projected Cash Flow Statements
Annex 14       Projected Income Statements
Annex 15       Projected Balance Sheets
Annex 16       Estimated Disbursement Schedule



- i -
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
BASIC DATA
Excchange Rate: Ls, 1 = US$ 2.87
Date of Establishment: November 1961
Ownership (as of Deaember 31, 1972)s Paid-in share capital £ 2,500,000 wholly
owned by the Bank of Sudan (Central Bank).
Resources Position (as of December 31, 1972): (Ls '000)
Equity                                   2,146
U.S.A.I.D. and
Czech Loans                                71
Total resources:                         2,217
Outstanding Portfolio
(Less provisions)                       1, 894
Undisbursed Commitments                    275
Net Fixed Assets                            42
Total Commitments:                      2,211
Resources available for commitment:          6
Contingent liability under guarantees:   818
Commitments of Loans and Guarantees (us. '000)
Year ending December 31    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972
Loans                        279      196     188     106      133     201      144
Guarantees                    -       193      -        53      -      326      466
279     389     188      159     133      527     610
Earnings Record (Ls. '000)
1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972
Net Income after provisions
(loss)                      (28.0)  (1.0)   (3.7)      .6     6.0    23.7   (237.3)
Net Income after provisions
as percentage of average
net worth                   -2.1   -0.1    -0.2      0.0      0.3     1.1    -10.5



- ii -
Financial Position (as of December 31, 1972)
Debt Equity ratio                       .03:1
Reserves and provisions to Loan
and E-quity portfolio                  16.5%
Interest Rates and Other Charges
Interest rate on medium-term
loans (2-6  years)                     8-1/2%
Interest rate on long-term
loans (6-15 years)                     9-1/2%
Commitment charces                      1/2 of 1%
Guarantee Fee                           2%



- *iAI -
SUMMARY
i.        IBS was established in 1961 as a public-sector corporation to pro-
vide finance to private industrial enterprises in the Sudan. Due to a per-
sistent shortage of resources, political instability in the country and the
nationalization of many private enterprises in 1970, its operations have been
at a modest level, particularly during 1968-70. Its shortage of resources
has also led IBS to concentrate its activities in the past on smaller size
Sudanese enterprises.
ii.       Manufacturing sector contributed 9% to GDP in FY71.  The five-year
development plan (1970-75) envisages total investment of Ls. 60 million in
the industrial sector. The scope for industrial investment is considerable,
particularly for import substitution and for industries based on local raw
materials, and both Sudanese and foreign investors have shown increased in-
terest in these areas in the past two years with the improvement of the in-
vestment climate. In the past, roll-over of commercial bank credits and sup-
pliers' credits have financed the limited level of industrial investment, but
these sources are neither appropriate nor adequate for the expected increase
in investment.
iii.      After 1970, IBS' operations have shown an upward trend.  The invest-
ment climate has improved considerably as a result of a series of measures taken
by the Sudanese authorities to attract foreign private investment and to en-
courage the development of industries in the private sector. IBS' charter
and operational policies have recently been amended and IBS is now able to
finance public-sector projects, in addition to private-sector projects, and
to make equity investments. Simultaneously, IBS is interested in improving
its methods of operation and in taking a more aggressive role in the Sudan,
and it is in this context that the Bank Group assistance, financial and tech-
nical, is considered of key importance to the company and to the country.
iv.       In recent years IBS' organization has been weakened by high staff
turn-over. IBS has agreed to an integrated program of recruitment and staff
development to improve its capacity to handle the growing volume of business
and also to improve its skills in the financial and economic appraisal of
projects. IBS has also recently increased its salary scales and should be
in a better position to attract and retain the type of staff it requires.
UNDP has agreed in principle to finance an investment advisor for IBS whom
the Association will recruit as executing agency of the UNDP project. He
will work with IBS' staff and management on project appraisal and supervi-
sion.
v.        IBS' loan portfolio had a large percentage of arrears.  After a
thorough portfolio review, IBS established adequate provisions for doubtful
debts in December 1972. IBS' financial record is poor. As a result of the
provisions made in 1972 and the accumulated losses carried over from previous
years its equity was slightly eroded and amounted to Ls 2.1 million as com-
pared to the paid-in share capital of Ls 2.5 million as at the end of 1972.
The Bank of Sudan has recently paid in Ls 300,000 in additional share capi-
tal and has agreed to pay in a further Ls 200,000 by June 1974 to raise IBS'
paid-in capital to Ls 3 million. This, along with internally generated funds,



- iv -
should give IBS sufficient local resources at least for the next two years.
Its financial position is likely to improve, albeit slowly, with the increase
in operations in the future.
vi.       IBS' accounts are now audited by the Auditor General.  The audit
has not been satisfactory, reflecting the serious staff constraints and the
large volume of work facing the Auditor General organization. IBS has agreed
that its accounts be audited in the future by auditors acceptable to the As-
sociation.
vii.      With renewed activity in the private sector, a reasonable pipeline
of applications and the ability to make equity investments and to finance
public-sector projects, IBS has an important potential role to play in the
economic development of the Sudan by providing finance to medium and larger
size projects as well as continuing its assistance to smaller enterprises.
Besides staff weaknesses, the major obstacle to its growth is its shortage
of foreign exchange resources. With the agreed measures to strengthen its
staff and operations, however, IBS is a creditworthy borrower for an IDA
Credit of $4 million to cover its foreign commitments in 1974 and 1975.
It has at present no other prospective lenders.
viii.     The proposed credit would be on-lent by the Sudanese Government to
IBS at 7-1/4% for a period not exceeding 15 years with a flexible amortiza-
tion schedule. Due to IBS' low level of operations and the need to build up
its financial position, IBS should be granted concessional treatment regard-
ing commitment charges which will accrue at 3/4% on the loan from the Gov-
ernment only from the date investments are authorized by IDA for withdrawal.
A suitable free limit for individual sub-projects would be $75,000, with an
aggregate free limit of $1 million. IBS will not assume any foreign exchange
risk. IBS' borrowers will bear the exchange risk between the Sudanese Pound
and the US dollar.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Industrial Bank of Sudan (IBS) was established in 1961 as a
statutory corporation and commenced operations towards the end of 1962. The
object of the Bank was to assist in the development of private industrial en-
terprises in the Sudan. The paid-up share capital was Lzs 2.5 million as of
December 31, 1972. The Bank of Sudan (Central Bank) is the sole shareholder.
The U.S. Agency for International Development (AID), which had assisted in
the establishment of IBS and had made available a credit of about Ls 700,000
at its inception, cancelled the unutilized balance in 1967 when relations were
broken between the Sudan and the United States. Up to 1967, IBS had been able
to draw down only is 70,000 out of this credit.
1.02      IBS' volume of operations, which amounted to 1,s 389,000 in 1967,
started declining in 1968 due to political instability and touched an all-
time low in 1970 when commitments amounted to only Ls 133,000 reflecting the
low level of investment as a result of the nationalization of many private
enterprises. Subsequently, the Government's policy changed and it started
to encourage private investment in 1971. IBS' commitments have shown a steady
improvement to Ls 527,000 in 1971 and is 610,000 in 1972. A notable charac-
teristic of IBS' operations during the last two years has been an increase
in the issue of guarantees for the import of plant and machinery under sup-
pliers' credits obtained by its clients, due to IBS' and the Sudan's lack of
foreign exchange resources.
1.03      The Sudanese Government has for some time been exploring with the
Bank Group the possibility of a credit line for IBS. A short exploratory
visit to the Sudan was made in 1969, but prospects for investment at that
time were quite uncertain. Following discussions with the Sudanese delega-
tion to the Bank's Annual Meeting in 1971, another short visit was undertaken
by a staff memoer to IBS in December 1971 and a pre-appraisal mission was sent
in June 1972. On the basis of the findings of this mission, the Bank Group
indicated to the Sudanese authorities their willingness to appraise IBS, sub-
ject to IBS taking steps, among other things, to have an evaluation of its
portfolio carried out by its auditors and implementing certain improvements
in its staffing, operational policies and procedures. The appraisal mission
visited IBS in February/March 1973 and this report is based on its findings
as well as on loan negotiations which took place in August 1973.
II. THE INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENT I/
Role of the Private and Public Sectors
2.01      Sudan has a population of 15.8 million and per capita GNP of about
US$120. The country is heavily dependent upon the export of cotton, which
accounted for over 59% of exports in FY72. While GDP (at current prices)
1/   See IBRD report "The Economic Development and Prospects of the Sudan"
(in four volumes) dated June 9, 1972, for a detailed analysis of the
Sudanese economy.



grew at an average rate of 4% during 1967-71, the industrial component of GDP
during the same period grew at an average rate of 6%. However, the industrial
sector, producing mainly import substitutes, is still small; its contribution
to GDP is estimated to have amounted to Ls 51 million in FY71, representing
9% of GDP in that year. There was a slight decline in industrial output in
FY71, mainly due to a breakdown in a cement plant and partial failure of the
sugar cane crop, but production seems to have picked up subsequently. The
distribution of industrial output in 1971 was: food processing (28%), tex-
tiles (27%), chemicals, plastic products and non-metallic mineral products
(11%), beverages(11%), metal engineering (9%), leather products (6%), and
miscellaneous (8%).
2.02      Until 1960, most industrial investment in the Sudan was in the pri-
vate sector. In 1961, the Government established a tannery as the first pub-
lic industrial enterprise. Although this was followed by seven other state
enterprises, involving a total Government investment in industry of Ls. 22
million, the private sector investment remained dominant. In 1970, the Gov-
ernment nationalized a number of concerns, including 38 industrial firms with
a capital investment of Ls. 17 million. However, 18 of these have been re-
turned in 1972 to the private sector which is now estimated to own 65% of
total manufacturing assets and a higher proportion of the total in terms of
number of enterprises.
2.03      In recent years, private manufacturing investment was low due to
the uncertainty about the Government's intentions towards the relative roles
of the private and the public sectors particularly after the nationalizations
of 1970. The Government has now made it clear, however, that it will rely on
the private sector for the bulk of new industrial investments and that it will
limit its own involvement to those projects which are too large for private
investors, e.g., sugar mills, tanneries and fertilizers. The current tenta-
tive list of new industrial projects in the public sector, most of which are
still preliminary proposals not backed by feasibility studies, includes a
factory for agricultural machinery, two tanneries, a kenaf factory, a sugar
mill and a fertilizer factory. New legislation providing incentives for
local and foreign private investors, entitled the "Development and Promotion
of Industrial Investment Act" came into effect in 1972. The incentives in-
clude:
(a) Exemption from corporate income tax for 5 years;
(b) Accelerated depreciation rates;
(c) Exemption from, Customs duties on machinery, spare parts, raw
materials, etc. for 5 years;
(d) Draw-back of duties on raw materials and packing materials
used in the manufacture of goods exported:
(e)  Tari ff protection in selective cases;



- 3 -
(f) Guaranteed remittance of profits and repatriation of foreign
investment;
(g) Guarantees against nationalization without fair compensation.
2.04      Sponsors of all new enterprises are required to obtain licenses
(irrespective oar whether incentives are requested) under this Act before the
enterprises are set up. Applications for licenses are submitted to the Min-
istry of Industry, which screens them and submits them to the "Technical Ad-
visory Committee for Industrial Development" for approval. This Committee
consists of representatives of Government, the Industrial Production Corpora-
tion (described in para. 2.11), the Industrial Consultancy Organization (de-
scribed in para. 2.10), the Sudan Manufacturers' Association, the Bank of
Sudan and the Industrial Bank of Sudan. Since the Act was passed, both do-
mestic and foreign investors' interest in the Sudan has picked up. IFC made
an investment of US$1.5 million in 1972 to help expand the operations of a
cotton textile mill in Khartoum, its second investment in this pzoject. The
number of applications approved by the Technical Advisory Commitee amounted
to 102 projects totalling Ls. 21 million in 1971 and 68 projects for Ls. 32
million in 1972. While past performance suggests that only a small fraction
of these will eventually be implemented, the number of projects under discus-
sion points to a definite renewal of interest.
2.05      The average customs duty on imported consumer and intermediate goods
is about 40%. In addition, the tight balance of payments situation has resulted
in import restrictions. However, the Ministry of Industry, which regulates
prices of locally produced goods, has stated that industries are not being set
up with excessive protection since it uses as a rule of thumb for regulating
prices that locally produced goods should not be priced more than 15% above
the CIF price of competing imports. Project appraisals prepared by the Min-
istry of Industry for the Technical Advisory Committee are of reasonable qual-
ity. These appraisals usually contain an estimate of net foreign exchange
savings (but not of the domestic resource cost of these savings).
Scope for Industrial Investment
2.06      The original five-year development plan (1970-1975) projects total
investments in industry of Ls. 60 million, of which is. 36 million would be
public and is. 24 million private. Public investments during the first two
years have been well below the plan targets due to shortage of funds as well
as limited executing capabilities and, while some improvement is likely, this
pattern is expected to continue in the remaining period. The Government hopes,
by encouraging the private sector, to compensate to some extent for the short-
fall in public investment. Reliable information of actual investment in the
private industrial sector is not available. It is also not known to what ex-
tent the plan target for the private sector has been achieved but it is ex-
pected that the original target of Ls. 5 million per annum may well be ex-
ceeded in the remaining period of the plan from 1973 to 1975. Most private
projects currently being implemented or under consideration are in textiles,
agricultural processing, building materials and beverages. In the cotton



-4-
textiles sector, a 15-year master plan, which was prepared by the Industrial
Cc,)sultancy Organization (see para. 2.10), has recently been approved by the
Covernment. It envisages an overall capital investment of is. 91 million in
three phases over 15 years. The first phase aims at developing spinning,
weaving and finishing capacities for satisfying the local demand for cotton
fabrics by substituting local production for imports, which are currently
valued at about Ls. 10 million per annum.  To achieve this objective, it is
proposed to install 153,000 new spindles, 3,600 additional looms and a central
dye-house. Already six or seven new textile mills are on the drawing boards
or being implemented.  The second phase envisages an increase of spinning
capacity for exporting yarn; and the third phase involves local production
of grey fabric for export.
2,07      Consumer goods and intermediate goods constituted 49% and 40% re-
spectively of total imports during FY 1972. Given the reasonable size of the
domestic market, this indicates considerable scope for setting up maziufactur-
iug capacity for import substitution.  Cotton spinning and weaving is al-eady
receiving considerable investment interest from both local and foreign iavestow>
and is likely to remain an attractive area of investment for some time to come
due to availability of domestic cotton. There also appears to be sFcope toc
other agro-based industries using local raw materials, a fair portion of which
is still exported unprocessed or semi-processed, e.g., hides and skin¢   -r*In-
nuts, oil cakes and gum arabic.
Financing of Industry
2.08      IBS is the only specialized financial inst4 tution If  the Sudan cate^r-
ing to the long-term credit requirements of the industrial sector.  However,
because of its lack of resources and the low level of investment activity in
the late sixties, IBS' role remained necessarily modest. IBS concenitrated
its activities on financing the projects of relatively smal  Sudanese ent~e--
preneurs who did not have easy access to commercial banks or c;ppliersa  cred-
its.  The commercial banks, which were nationalized in 19701. al-pear to have
met most of the demand for long-term industrial credit duri-ig thii  period lar
their ixqportant clients through rolling over short-teK7, credit and, to a limti iet
extent, through direct long-term loans,  Total short-term credit to industry
was about Ls. 18 million at the end of 1971, and had iLncrezsed tc J'L 2 ni2-
lion by the end of 1972, i.e., a 22% increase which cannot be expl½iA. Ix--
cept in terms of some fixed asset financing. Total outstanding long-term
cred:&£ from commercial banks for private capital investment at the and of
1972 amounted to about Ls. 2 million, of which industry accouinted for only
4s. 600,000.  Although accurate statistics on suppliers' credits are noL
available, they are believed to constitute the major source of financing
for imported industrial machinery in recent years.
2.09      This pattern of industrial financing is not appropriate for meet-
..ng the ½ -og -term credit needs of the projected industrial investments. There
are ceilings on commercial bank credit fixed by the Bank of Sudan. at the in-
stance of the IPIF, and the banks do not have much elbow room to expand credit
despite their liquidity. Because of the tight foreign exchange position, it



- 5 -
is also difficult to utilize commercial bank credits to finance imported
equipment. The tied nature of suppliers' credits and their fairly short
terms have imposed quite a heavy burden both on the Sudanese economy and
the project beneficiaries. An IDA credit will thus help fill a gap i- the
supply of credit to the industrial sector.
Industrial Consultancy Organization (ICO)
2.10      ICO was set up in 1967 by the Government, with UNIDO's help, as an
autonomous body to promote industrial development by conducting research and
giving technical assistance and specialized services to Government and to in-
dustry. ICO's manager is assisted by four UNIDO-recruited experts, and it
employs about 40 Sudanese professionals, most of them engineers but includ-
ing also industrial cost accountants and economists. Its activities have
been directed towards the supply of services, both in the technical field
(quality control, materials testing, specifications, ei:c.) and in preparing
feasibility studies, as well as trouble-shooting for industrial projects. A
number of projects studied by ICO were later financed by IBS. It was ICO that
recently prepared a well-studied master plan for the gradual development of
the Sudanese textile industry (para. 2.06). ICO recently changed its char-
ter (and assumed its current name) to stress its consulting and technical
services role rather than its research function. The organization also has
access to foreign technical assistance funds for the recruitment of short-
term consultants to study specific industries, and IBS plans to avail itself
of ICO's help in carrying out some technical studies.
Industrial Production Corporation (IPC)
2.11      The Industrial Production Corporation is the managing agency for the
eight state-owned industrial enterprises set up before 1970 1/. It also man-
aged the 38 enterprises nationalized in 1970. IPC has organized itself as a
nholding company, having eight subsidiary corporations, each responsible for
managinig state-owned industrial enterprises in specific sectors: food, leather
and plastics, oil-mills, engineering and mining, sugar and beverages, building
material, tobacco, and miscellaneous products. The net fixed assets of the
IPC managed concerns were estimated at Ls. 39 million, as of June 1971, dis-
tr5buted over 46 enterprises. Eighteen of these concerns have been returned
to the private sector in 1972, although IPC has retained a token sharehold-
ing and a board seat on these companies. Consolidated financial results of
all the units which constitute IPC are not available. The eight originally
state-owned factories recorded increases in output in FY1972, although most
of them were still operating below rated capacities. While the Ministry of
1/   Babonousa Milk Products Factory, Guneid Sugar Factory, Khashm-el-Girba
Sugar Factory, Karima Fruit and Vegetable Canning Factory, Kassala Onion
Dehydration Factory, Wau Fruit and Vegetable Canning Factory, Khartoum
Tannery, and Karima Date Factory, having total assets valued at Ls. 22
million.



- 6 -
Industry has the primary responsibility for planning and promoting industrial
projects in the public sector, it works very closely with the planning unit of
IPC which has greater expertise in these matters and in many cases initiates
investment proposals. Funds for implementing new projects are provided through
allocations in the Government's development budget. The public sector invest-
ment program, briefly outlined in paragraph 2.03, is being implemented by the
Ministry of Industry with the close cooperation of IPC, which is supposed to
run the factories after they are set up.
III.  THE COMPANY
Charter
3.01      IBS was established by an Act in 1961 which limited its financing
to making loans to private industrial enterprises. The Act was amended in
1973 to allow IBS to finance public sector projects, in addition to the pri-
vate sector projects. Regarding the public sector projects, the Minister
of Finance and National Economy has stated that the Government's intention
was not to involve IBS in large new public sector projects but to limit it
to financing extensions of existing state enterprises. IBS' paid-in share
capital, all provided by the Bank of Sudan, was increased by Ls. 300,000 in
1973 to Ls. 2.8 million, and will be increased to Ls. 3 million by June 1974
(see para. 4.09). According to the IBS Act, the Minister of Finance and Na-
tional Economy has the authority to give to the Board, after consultation
with its chairman, directions of a general character in matters which affect
the national interest.
9perating Policies
3.02      IBS's operating policies are spelt out in the Industrial Bank of
Sudan By-laws, which were approved by IBS' Board in 1962 and have recently
been amended. The By-laws cover internal organizational matters as well as
aspects which normally appear in policy statements of DFCs. Extracts from
the By-laws are attached as Annex 1. The following are the major provisions:
(a) IBS is precluded from financing a project which is not tech-
nically and financially feasible and economically sound;
(b) IBS cannot take a controlling interest in the share capital
of any industrial enterprise;
(c) IBS carLnot refinance the existing indebtedness of an enter-
prise;
(d)  IBS cannot borrow more than three times its net worth;
(e)  IBS' mlaximum exposure to any one enterprise cannot exceed
the following percentages of its net worth:



- 7-
(i) 20% in case of a limited company or a coopera-
tive society or a public sector corporation;
(ii) 15% in case of a partnership;
(iii) 10% in other cases;
(f)  The aggregate of IBS' equity participation in enterprises
cannot exceed its net worth;
(g)  IBS' maximum exposure in the equity of an enterprise cannot
exceed 10% of IBS' net worth.
3.03      IBS is authorized to lend up to a maximum of two-thirds of the total
cost of a project. In practice, however, this maximum limit has in a large
number of cases been treated as the normal financing limit of IBS with the
result that many projects financed by IBS have become debt-heavy, particularly
because interest during construction period has been capitalized and added to
the principal amount of loan on the completion of the project. In some cases,
therefore, the total principal amount due to IBS constitutes more than two-
thirds of the cost of the project and the debt-servicing burden is too heavy.
IBS' management has appreciated the implications of this practice and has agreed
to normally limit its financing to 50% of an enterprise's assets and to ensure
that interest during construction is properly capitalized and provided for in
the financing plan of a project.
Lending Terms
3.04      IBS recently revised its interest rates from 7% to 8.5% for medium-
term loans (2-6 years) and from 8.5% to 9.5% for long-term loans (6-15 years).
Commercial banks charge about 8% on advances against cotton and 9% on loans
to industrial borrowers. IBS' rates are in line with those charged by com-
mercial banks on their loans to industrial borrowers, a fair percentage of
which is also rolled-over from year to year. It has been agreed that the
risk of fluctuations in the rate of exchange between U.S. dollars and the
Sudanese pound on the proposed IDA credit will be passed on to the ultimate
borrower and, given this, IBS' interest rate structure is satisfactory. IBS
also charges a commitment fee of 1/2% per annum on undisbursed amounts of
loans, commencing from the date of signing a loan contract. The fee for a
guarantee is 2% per annum. As security for its loans, IBS obtains a first
legal mortgage on the fixed assets of the project it finances.
Procurement and Disbursement Procedures
3.05      IBS' procurement policies require that its clients submit more than
one quotation for the equipment to be financed and explain the ultimate choice
of supplier; if these are not satisfactory, IBS may ask for additional quota-
tions. Disbursements are made against invoices for items specified in the
loan agreement. Both procurement and disbursement procedures are adequate.



- 8 -
IBS' standard sub-loan agreement is acceptable but will be modified to in-
clude a clause relating to the clients bearing foreign exchange risk, as well
as other relevant clauses arising from IBS' obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Board of Directors
3.06      The Board of Directors has eight members and consists of the Manag-
ing Director (who is also the Chairman), the Deputy Managing Director, three
members from the private sector, plus one representative each from the Minis-
try of Finance and National Economy, the Ministry of Industry and Mining, and
the Bank of Sudan. The three directors from the private sector are appointed
by the Minister of Finance and National Economy for indefinite terms, after
consultation with the Chairman. The Managing Director and the Deputy Manag-
ing Director are appointed by the Council of Ministers on the recommendation
of the Minister of Finance and National Econ omy after consultation with the
Board. Annex 2 contains a list of IBS' Board members. Out of the three di-
rectors representing the private sector, Mr. Gaafar Atta El Mannan, who was
appointed in 1972, is the Deputy General Manager of Khartoum Spinning and
Weaving Company Ltd. The other two directors were appointed in August 1973.
Mr. Ali Dongula is a leading businessman in the Sudan. Mr. Dafalla El Hag
Yousif Medani is the General Manager of the Sudan Textile Industry Ltd. and
currently Chairman of the Sudan Manufacturers' Association. Taken together,
the present Board is more business-oriented than its predecessor and more
likely to contribute to the review and critique of investment proposals sub-
mitted to it. The Board meets once a month and approves all investments in
excess of Ls. 5,000. Investments for less than Ls. 5,000 but more than is.
2,000 must be approved by the Finance Committee which consists of the Manag-
ing Director, (who is also the Chairman of the Committee), the Director rep-
resenting the Ministry of Finance and National Economy and a Director from
the private sector. Investments below Ls. 2,000 can be approved by the
Managing Director. The Finance Committee also reviews all investment pro-
posals before their presentation to the Board.
Management
3.07      The Managing Director is Mr. Mahdi Ahmed, 45, who was appointed in
October 1971. Ile attended a Public Administration course at Harvard and the
General Development Course of the E.D.I. in 1966/67. He worked for over 15
years in the Ministry of Finance and Economics and was the Acting Under-
Secretary of Planning for about a year before becoming the Chairman of a
Government-ouwned commercial bank in May, 1970. He has been effective in
providing leadership for IBS and he enjoys the respect of senior officials
in the Government.
3.08      Mr. Hassan Ahmed Mekki, 39, who has been with IBS since its incep-
tion, was appointed as the Deputy Managing Director in May 1973. Mr. Mekki
holds a Master's degree in Economics from the University of Wisconsin. He
attended t.ii L>.D.I. Industrial Projects Course in 1972. He has good rela-
tions witlh tI-e local business conmunity and is well-suited to develop busi-
ness once TBS obtains adequate foreign exchange resources.



-9-
Organization and Staffing
3.09      IBS' organization chart is at Annex 3.  IBS has a total staff of
70, of which 26 are professionals.  In common with most other Government or-
ganizations in the Sudan, IBS appears to be over-staffed in relation to the
present level of operations. However, in view of lack of expertise in fi-
nancial analysis, IBS is recruiting some new staff to fill this gap despite
the numerical ovrer-staffing (see paras. 3.10 and 3.14).
3.10      The Projects Department is responsible for appraising projects and
supervising IBS' investments until they have been fully disbursed. The posi-
tion of head of this department is at present vacant and Mr. Mekki, Deputy
Managing Director, is acting in this capacity. IBS is seeking one or two
senior staff with financial skills. It had 9 professionals 'with financial,
economics and technical backgrounds and two new staff members have recently
joined it making a total of 11 professionals.
3.11      Project appraisals are generally satisfactory from the marketing
and technical points of view, although enough attention has not always been
given to the adequacy and appropriateness of managerial and technical know-
how arrangements. Financial analysis is weak, however, and appraisals do
not include complete financial projections as well as adequate estimates of
investment and working capital requirements. These aspects have been dis-
cussed with IBS which has agreed to take the necessary steps to improve
them (see para. 3.13) .
3.12      IBS' economic analysis of projects has been limited to partial
economic indicators like employment generation and gross foreign exchange
earnings or savings. IBS has agreed to make a calculation of the economic
rate of return for projects using $75,000 or more of IBS' funds in the fu-
ture. Guidelines have been provided to IBS on the methodology to be employed
in this calculation. As a member of the Technical Advisory Committee of the
Ministry of Industry, IBS plays an active part in its deliberations and even
at present makes a useful contribution in evaluating the applications coming
up before the Committee for licensing or grant of concessions. If IBS im-
proves its financial and economic appraisal skills, it will also be in a
position to contribute more substantially to the work of this Committee.
3.13      Recognizing the need for improving its appraisal and supervision
techniques, IBS has agreed to employ an experienced investment advisor who
will work with the staff and help upgrade their professional skills (see
job description at Annex 4). UNDP has agreed in principle to finance this
position and to appoint IDA as executing agency. A suitable candidate has
been found and should be appointed shortly.
3.14      The Follow-Up Department employs at present 5 professionals, in-
cluding two engineers, and IBS is likely to recruit shortly another staff
member with accounting/economics background. IBS is also looking for a
senior person with similar background and some corporate experience to as-
sist the head of the Follow-Up Department in organizing and supervising the
financial evaluation of ongoing projects. The Department was set up in 1972



- 10 -
and is yet to be organized adequately, although follow-up activities have begun.
IBS has agreed to set up regular procedures for plant visits, reporting re-
quirements and evaluation of ongoing projects so as to enable it to take timely
pertinent action, where necessary.
3.15      The Treasury Department is staffed by five accountants, who perform
the routine job of bookkeeping fairly satisfactorily, although they have not
done adequate financial planning of IBS' operations. The staff in the Projects
Department has recently been given some acquaintance with operation, planning
and financial control and with practice they should be able to do a reasonable
job of it.
3.16      In the recent past, IBS has experienced high turn-over of staff partly
due to very low salary scales. These are now better and, although not as high
as those in commercial banks, are considered adequate by IBS' management to
stem the high rate of staff turn-over.
Audit
3.17      Under its charter, IBS' accounts are to be audited by auditors ap-
pointed by its Board and approved by the Minister of Finance and National
Economy. However, under the Auditor General Chambers Act of 1970, the Auditor
General's Office has the responsibility to audit the accounts of all Govern-
ment corporations, unless it agrees to delegate this responsibility, and IBS'
accounts have been audited by private local firms except in 1970 and 1972.
Given the heavy work load of the Auditor General's Office and the rather de-
tailed audit requirements applied by the Bank on DFC operations, it has been
agreed that IBS would in the future be audited by auditors acceptable to the
Association.
IV. OPERATIONS, PORTFOLIO AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Past Operations
4.01      In the past IBS has financed only privately owned projects and,
with the exception of two equity investments, 1/ has provided only loans and
guarantees. The beneficiaries of IBS' investments are mostly Sudanese entre-
preneurs. Annex 5 summarizes the 117 loans, approved by IBS since its in-
ception, by size, maturity, interest rate, industry and location. IBS has
financed primarily small and medium-scale industry. About 87% of the enter-
prises assisted by it were recipients of loans of less than is 50,000, which
constituted 48% of total approvals by amount. The average maturity of IBS'
1/   One, for Es 438,000, in a cement manufacturing company, made in 1970
at the Government's request, now proposed to be transferred to the Gov-
ernment; and the other for is 7,000, in a plastic sacks manufacturing
ciipany, ro supplement an investment of is 280,000 in the Company admin-
lstered by IBS, on behalf of the Government.



- 11 -
loans is about seven years. Since IBS excluded the construction period of
projects in determining maturities, the maturities of its loans are consider-
ably understated. The average interest rate on past loans is 8.25% per annum.
The loans are fairly diversified by industry and no single sector accounts for
more than 15% of IBS' total lending. Important sectors are food processing,
textiles, printing and packaging, oil mills, chemicals and engineering work-
shops. More than half of IBS' projects, accounting for about 63% by amount,
are located in Khartoum/Omdurman area; Blue Nile Province comes next with 17
projects accountinz for about 20% of the amount of loans; the remaining one-
third accounting for about 17% of the loan amount are spread over the rest
of the country. The national figure for concentration of industries in and
around Khartoum is 80%. The deficiency of the transportation system is among
the major problems facing the Sudan and this makes wider geographical dispersal
of industries a difficult task. Industries based on local raw materials re-
ceived over 64% of IBS' loans.
4.02      Annex 6 gives a summary of IBS' operations from 1966 through 1972.
The volume of operations has fluctuated widely and is indicative of the changes
in the investment climate of the country during the period.  The level of com-
mitments started declining in 1968, and was only Ls 133,000 in 1970. The per-
iod between 1968 and 1970 was a period of uncertainty in the private sector due
to political changes which culminated in the nationalization measures of 1970.
After 1970, due to the revival of investors' confidence, commitments again
picked up and amounted to Ls 527,000 in 1971 and Ls 610,000 in 1972. However,
.approvals in 1972 were lower than in 1971 mainly due to a sharp decrease in
guarantees. (In 1971, IBS approved an unusually large number of guarantees
for the vegetable oil milling industry.) A notable feature of the commitments
during these two years has been the steep rise in the level of guarantees issued
(is 326,000 in 1971 and Ls 466,000 in 1972) in respect of suppliers' credits
obtained by IBS' clients due to IBS' shortage of resources, rarticularly the
absence of foreign exchange resources. A rising trend in operations in 1973
is discernible from the level of approvals up to the end of August, amounting
to Ls 300,000 in loans and Ls 423,000 in guarantees.
Portfolio
4.03      Since inception IBS has made partial or full disbursement on 90 proj-
ects of which 19 have been fully repaid. As of December 31, 1972 a large per-
centage of IBS' loan portfolio of Ls 1,823,000 was in arrears. There were 31
projects in arrears having outstandings of is 1,047,000 accounting for 57% of
the total portfolio outstanding. The actual overdues amounted to us 413,000
(23% of the outstanding portfolio).
4.04      Over 75% of the portfolio affected by arrears was accounted for by
five large projects, having aggregate loans outstanding of h,s 800,000. Arrears
on these five projects amounted to Ls 319,000, which was 77% of the total over-
dues. On the recommendation of IBS' auditors, who reviewed the portfolio at
the end of 1972, a total provision of bs 374,000 was made for doubtful debts,
including Ls 309,000 against four of the five large projects (having arrears
of is 195,000). No provision was made for the fifth project, (a cement factory)



- 12 -
as its operations were improving and its ownership was being transferred to
the Government. The appraisal mission, which reviewed the evaluation of the
portfolio with IBS' auditors, found the provisions adequate to cover identi-
fiable probable losses. IBS has recently informed IDA that one of its large
projects in arrears has been sold under court orders and IBS has received
full settlement of its dues.
4.05      The other 26 loans in arrears were relatively small, 22 of them being
under is 10,000 each and most of.the borrowers being new entrepreneurs. The
main reasons for arrears and unsatisfactory progress of a number of projects
have been inadequate financial appraisal, a disproportionately high level of
debt in the financial plans of projects, and the absence of suitable managerial
and technical know-how arrangements. The measures outlined in paras. 3.13 and
3.14 are designed to help improve the appraisal and supervision skills of IBS'
staff, which should in turn lead to an improvement in the quality of IBS' port-
folio.
Guarantees
4.06      IBS' guarantee portfolio has increased sharply in recent years.
As of December 31, 1972, 20 guarantees involving a total amount of Ls. 818,000
were outstanding. These guarantees have been issued to secure suppliers'
credits obtained by IBS' clients due to IBS' lack of foreign exchange re-
sources. About half of the amount guaranteed was for the equipment of a
number of existing vegetable oil mills (crushing groundnuts and cotton seeds)
and the remainder for setting up of a flour mill, two biscuit factories and
a small weaving factory. The duration of the guarantees has ranged from two
to six years but most of them have been for four years. In two cases, where
repayments were scheduled to start before the project could generate cash from
operations, IBS agreed with the clients to meet the first few installments by
granting loans to cover them. According to present indications, no losses
are likely on the guarantee portfolio. Annex 7 contains a summary of guar-
antees approved by IBS as of December 31, 1972.
Provisions
4.07      The provisions of is. 374,000 recommended by the auditors included
an amount of i~s. 101,000 already provided in the 1971 accounts. Prior to 1971,
IBS had not made any other provisions for possible losses. Provisions for
the large projects in arrears (see para. 4.04), amount td is. 309,000 and
for the remaining 26 projects in arrears, mostly small enterprises, to Es. 65,o0o
against arrears of is. 94,000. The provisions now appear to be adequate, but
of course will have to be reviewed annually, which was not the case in the
past.
Financial Results
4.08      Annexes 8 and 9 give IBS' income statements and balance sheets from
1967 to 1972. IBS incurred losses in 1967 and 1968 and broke even in 1969.
It made a nominal profit in 1970 and 1971. Profits in 1972 before provisions
amounted to Ls. 36,000, but due to large provisions the net result was a loss



- 13 -
of over Ls. 237,000. Total provisions, including is. 101,000 provided for
in 1971, amounted to is. 374,000 at the end of 1972. In 1972, IBS' revenue
amounted to 8.6% of the average loan portfolio outstanding; the return on
the loan portfolio will increase in the future due to the recent increase
in interest rates. IBS' revenue on average total assets for 1972 amounted
to only 5.3% due to no return on IBS' liquid funds and its large unremunera-
tive equity investment. In the past, IBS has kept its liquid funds in cash
or other non-earning assets. While ways of profitably employing liquid funds
in the Sudan are limited, IBS could have invested these funds in 90 days'
Treasury Bills which yield 3% annually. These instruments are also dis-
countable at the Central Bank at a small cost at any time. IBS' administra-
tive expenses for 1972 amounted to 3.8% of average total assets, which is
fairly high. This is partly due to the relatively small size of the port-
folio outstanding, to the small size of individual operations as well as to
a disproportionately large staff in relation to IBS' level of activity. IBS'
management plans to improve this by increasing the level of operations as
well as by restricting recruitment of professional staff to a few indivi-
duals of high ability.
Financial Position
4.09      IBS' resources, as of December 31, 1972, consisted mainly of its
paid-in share capital of Ls. 2,500,000, less is. 354,000 due to accumulated
losses of earlier years and to provisions for probable losses made in 1971
and 1972. The paid-in share capital is to be increased to Ls. 3 million and
the Bank of Sudan has already paid in a sum of Ls. 300,000 out of the agreed
Ls. 500,000. The remaining amount is to be paid-in before June 1974. Other
resources consist of: (a) the outstanding balance, amounting to is. 56,000,
of a US A.I.D. Loan made to the Government and on-lent to IBS at 4% p.a.
and (b) the outstanding balance, amounting to is. 15,000 of a Czechoslovak
loan made to the Government and on-lent to IBS at 3% per annum. The US A.I.D.
loan is repayable in semi-annual installments until April 1982, and the
Czechoslovak loan in similar installments until August 1974. As of Decem-
ber 31, 1972, all of IBS' resources were disbursed or had been committed
for future disbursements.
V. PROSPECTS
Operational Forecasts
5.01      Forecasts of IBS' operations and financial statements through 1977,
together with the underlying assumptions, are shown in Annexes 10 through 15.
A summary of IBS' forecast commitments is as follows:



- 14 -
(Amounts in is. '000)
Loans            Sub-                Equity
Foreign     Local       Total                Invest-
Currency   Currency      Loans  Guarantees  ment        Total
1972 (actual)         -           144         144      466         _         610
1973                  -           532         532      423         -         955
1974                 595          266         861       27        100        988
1975                 808          268        1076       -         110       1186
The total commitments are expected to increase from the 1972 level of about
Ls. 0.6 million to almost Ls. 1.0 million in 1974, Ls. 1.2 million in 1975
and thereafter to increase by about 11% annually. Commitments in 1974 are
expected to constitute about 21% of the total planned private sector invest-
ment and about 9% of total manufacturing investment.
5.02      Past commitments have been low due to IBS' resource limitations,
and IBS' charter and by-laws which restricted it to operate only in the pri-
vate sector and not to make equity investments. Given new resources, more
effective manpower, and a more liberal charter, IBS is expected to play a
much larger role. The projections are based on these premises plus the ef-
fect of the institutional improvements being translated into increased op-
erations. IBS' pipeline of active projects consists of over 60 private-
sector projects covering a wide range of industries including cotton tex-
tile spinning and weaving, asbestos cement, glucose and starch, caustic
soda and animal fodder. It is expected that the majority of IBS' invest-
ments will be to Sudanese-controlled enterprises. Assuming that IBS would
continue to finance smaller projects and gradually begin doing two or three
larger projects per year, approvals and commitments could evolve as indi-
cated in Annex 11.  The projections exclude the possible demand from the
public sector, in the absence of any clear prospects for such projects at
this time. The foreign component of the projected commitments is based
on IBS' assessment of requirements for the import of machinery and equip-
ment for the active projects in its pipeline and constitutes about 65% of
total commitments.
Resource Requirements
5.03      Annex 12 shows the projected evolution of IBS' resources position
through 1977. As of December 31, 1972, IBS had no uncommitted resources.
Since then it has drawn down from the Central Bank is. 300,000 of the
Ls. 500,000 increase in its paid-in capital. The Bank of Sudan is committed
to paying the balance of Ls. 200,000 before June 1974. IBS will also be
able to dispose of its equity investments of Ls. 445,000 by 1975. As against
these local currency resources and internal cash generation, IBS plans new
commitments of Ls. 1,276,000 for local expenditures by 1975 leaving it with
uncommitted local resources of is. 834,000 at the end of this period. As
for coriumitni-enrts to finance imports of machinery and equipment, which cannot
be met out of its local currency resources, IBS plans total commitments of
about Ls. 1.4 million (or US$4.0 million) for the two year period ending in



- 15 -
December 1973. At present, IDA is the only prospective foreign lender to
IBS and an IDA credit of US$4 million is recommended.
Projected Income and Profitability
5.04      Projected income statements for the years 1973 through 1977 are
shown in Annex 14. Profits, as a percentage of average net worth, are pro-
jected to increase to 2.9% before provisions and to 1.7% after provisions
in 1975. IBS' profitability is projected to be very low mainly due to the
low returns on its short-term investments, no return likely on its equity
portfolio until 1977, and relatively high administrative expenses, which
are expected to decrease with the growth of IBS' operations. Another im-
portant contributory factor to the forecast low profitability is the narrow
spread of 1-3/4% available to IBS on its loans financed under the IDA Credit.
The average interest on IBS' foreign currency loans is expected to be 9% while
it will pay the Sudanese Government 7-1/4% for the proceeds of the IDA Credit.
Projected Balance Sheets
5.05      IBS' projected balance sheets are shown in Annex 15.  Total assets
are forecast to grow at an annual average rate of 20%. The debt/equity ratio
is projected to increase gradually but still remains low at .88 through 1977.
Provisions increase from is. 374,000 at the end of 1972 to is. 537,000 at the
end of 1977, equivalent to about 10% of the loan and equity portfolio.
Disbursement
5.06      The proceeds of the IDA Credit would finance the CIF cost of im-
ported maclhinery and equipment, and the foreign component of the cost of
imported investment goods purchased off the shelf in the Sudan. An esti-
mated disbursement schedule is given at Annex 16.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      The investment climate in the Sudan has improved considerably in
the past two years as a result of a series of measures taken by the Sudanese
authorities to attract foreign investment and to encourage the development of
industries in the private sector.
6.02      IBS, which was operating on a modest scale until 1970 due to a
shortage of resources and to the political and economic situation in the
country, has good prospects to expand its operations and to assume a large
role in providing finance, both to gmall industries and to the larger indus-
trial enterprises in the Sudan. Given the necessary staff training and de-
velopment, envisaged as an integral part of the IDA Credit operation, IBS
has the potential of developing into a sound institution and an important
channel for supporting productive investment in the industrial sector. The
relationship with the Bank Group should enable IBS to improve its financial



- 16 -
and economic appraisal skills resulting in better resource allocation. It
should also enable IBS to make a more substantial contribution to the formula-
tion of industrial policy.
6.03      IBS is a creditworthy borrower for an IDA Credit.  A suitable amount
would be $4 million. The proposed credit would be relent by the Sudanese Gov-
ernment to IBS at 7-1/4% for a maximum period of 15 years, with a flexible
amortization schedule conforming to the aggregate amortization schedules of
IBS' sub-loans. In view of IBS' low level of operations and the need to build
up its financial position, it is recommended that IBS be granted concessional
treatment regarding commitment charges, which will accrue at 3/4% on the
loan from the Government only from the date investments are authorized for
withdrawal by IDA. It is recommended that IDA should require prior approval
of each project using $75,000 or more of the proceeds of the proposed credit.
An appropriate aggregate free limit would be $1.0 million, which would ensure
that at least 75% of the amount of the loan would come to IDA for approval.
The financial risk entailed by the Credit of possible fluctuations in the
rate of exchange between the US dollar and the Sudanese pound will be borne
by IBS' borrowers.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
EXTRACTS FROM
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
BY-LAWS
4.   (1)  In the performance of its functions under
the Act, the Bank shall be guided by sound
economic, financial and business principles.
(2) No project shall be eligible for assistance
by the Bank unless such project is technically
and financially feasible and economically sound
and unless the completion of the project repre-
sents a contribution to the economic development
of Sudan.
(3)  In examining and appraising projects, the
Bank shall give priority and special consid-
eration to projects that have obtained, from
the Ministry of Industry and Mining, the qual-
ification of "Approved Enterprise."
5.   The aggregate indebtedness of the Bank shall   Indebtedness
not exceed three times the aggregate amount    of the Bank.
of its subscribed and fully paid-up capital
and reserves.
6.   The Bank shall not have a controlling            Prohibition
interest in any industrial enterprise.           of controlling
interest.
7.   Until and unless the Board otherwise directs,  Limit of
the Bank shall limit its function to:-           Bank functions
(a) extending financial assistance by
granting secured medium and long-
term loans or equity participation
for the establishment, expansion
and modernization of industrial
enterprises;
(b) giving secured guarantees for payment
for the acquisition of machinery,
equipment, material and services
necessary for the establishment,
expansion and modernization of
industrial enterprise;



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(c) extending managerial, technical and
administrative assistance;
(d) cooperating with appropriate Government
institutions according to Section 4(1)(f)
of the Act.
PART II - LOANS AND GUARANTEES
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
8.   The Bank shall not invest, by loans, equity             Maximum
participation or guarantees in any one industrial   Investment
enterprise more than the following percentages of   in differ-
the aggregate amount of its subscribed and fully    ent enterprises
paid-up share capital and reserves:
(a) 20 percent, if the industrial
enterprise is owned and operated
by the public sector, a cooperative
or a limited company;
(b) 15 percent, if the industrial
enterprise is owned by a partnership;
(c) 10 percent in other cases.
9.   (1)  The Bank shall not invest in any project           Maximum
more than two-thirds of the total cost of         Investment
that project;
(2) The Bank shall not subscribe in equity more
than 10% of its net worth in the share capi-
tal of an industrial enterprise;
(3) The aggregate equity participation of the
Bank shall not exceed its total net worth;
(4)  The Bank shall not bear any foreignt exchange
risk, such risk should be the responsibillty
of the borrower.
10.   The Bank shall not consider any loan or guarantees  Prohibition
the object of which is to re-finance or convert an of financing
existing indebtedness of an industrial enterprise. indebtedness



ANNEX 1
Page 3
11.   The duration of every guarantee shall be consid-    Duration of
ered according to the circumstance of that             Guarantee
guarantee.
12.   (1)  Interest rates and guarantee fees on lcans        Interest Rates
and guarantees extended by the Bank shall be   and Guarantee
determined, from time to time, by the Board.   Fees
(2) The categories of loans, as specified in
Section 2 of these By-Laws, may be charged
different rates of interest, but the rate of
interest in one category shall be the same.
(3) The Board, in determining the interest rate,
shall be guided by:-
(a) the cost of funds acquired by
the Bank for its operation;
(b) the average level of interest
rates in Sudan;
(c) The Bank's operating expen-
ditures;
(d) the requirement of maintaining
the Bank in a sound financial
position, with a particular
view to providing, over and above
those needed for meeting its
operating expenditure, revenues
sufficient for the creation of
adequate funds for reserves and
for the payment of reasonable
dividends on its share capital.
PART III - LOAN AND GUARANTEE SECURITY
13.  The Bank shall require appropriate security for any   Necessity of
loan or guarantee it issues.                             Securities
14.  Without prejudice to the generality of Section 12        Usual
of these By-Laws, the Bank will usually require          Securities
the following securities:-



ANNEX 1
Page 4
(1)  (a)  a first mortage on duly registered
immovable property of the Applicant,
including all sites, buildings, fixed
plants and fixed machinery;
(b) chattel mortgage in respect of movable
assets.
(2) The Bank, at its own discretion, may require:-
(a) a guarantee or counter-guarantee by
third person;
(b) the subordination to the Bank claims of
certain existing or future obligations
of the Applicant.
15.  For the purpose of loans and guarantees, the Bank       Security
shall make valuations of any security required and    Valuation
presented, under Section 13 and 14 of these By-Laws,
and that valuation shall be final.
16.  Whether or not the loan or guarantee is advanced,       Expenses
the Applicant shall pay all expenses incurred by        of the
the Bank in the process of valuation made by the        Valuation
Bank.
PART IV - LOANS AND GUARANTEES
PROCEDURES AND AGREEMENT
17.  Every application for loans or guarantees shall be    Application
presented to the Bank in writing.                       for Loans and
Guarantees
18.  Every loan or guarantee agreement shall be subject    Loans and
to these By-Laws and shall be in writing and shall    Guarantee
be signed by the Managing Director and the Borrower.  Agreement



ANNEX 2
INIDJSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Board of Directors
(as of August 31, 1973)
Board Member                           Year of Appointment                Position
Mr. Mahdi Ahmed, Chairman                      1971          Managing Director, IBS
Mr. Hassan Ahmed Mekki, Dy. Chairman           1973          Deputy Managing Director
IBS
Mr. Abdalla Mohammed Fadlalla                  1966          Under-Secretary, Ministry
of Industry and Mining.
Mr. Osman Abdalla El Nazeer                    1971          Assistant Under-Secretary,
M4inistry of Finance and
Toational Economy.
Mr. Morris Loga                                1970          Senior Official,
Bank of Sudan.
(The following represent the private sector)
Mr. Gaafar Atta El I91nnan                     1972          Deputy General I4anager,
Khartoum Spinning and Weavinj
Company.
Mr. Ali Dongula                                1973          Contractor, Importer and
exporter.
Mr. Dafalla El lag Yousif Medani               1973          General Ixnager,
Sudan Textile Industry Ltd.,
and Chairman, Sudan
Manufacturers' Association
DFCD/
Sept. 10, 1973






INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Organization Chart
(as of August 31, 1973)
[     BOARD OF DIRECTORS      ]
[     FINANCE COMMITTEE      ]
MANAGING DIRECTOR
MR. MAHDI AHMED
r   .                         L   ~~~~~~~~MR. OMAR ALI TALBALLA
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR
|   MR. HASSAN AHMED MEKKI
Y.                                                                                                                                           MR. EL T AYEB
LEGAL ADVISER                PROJECTS DEPARTMENT                  FOLLOW-UP DEPARTMENT                ADMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT               TREASURY DEPARTMENT
YASSEIN AHMED OBEID                   (VACANTI_   MR. HASSAN AHMED HOWERIS                          _MR. BABIKERMRELTYB
ASSISTANT MANAGING DIRECTOR          ASSISTANT MANAGING DIRECTOR                MEDAWI, CONTROLLER                        CONTROLLER
j                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 PROFESSIONALS
FINANCIAL SECTION     1              FINANCIAL SECTION                                            1 S
5 PROFESSIONALS       l              2 PROFESSIONALS       l
TECHNICAL SECTION                    TECHNICAL SECTION                    INFORMATION SECTION      1
3 PROFESSIONALS                      2 PROFESSIONALS                         AND LIBRARY
ECONOMIC SECTION       1             ECONOMIC SECTION
3 PROFESSIONALS                        1 PROFESSIONAL
Professional staff:  26
Non-professional staff: 22
Drivers, messengers
and guards:     22
DFCD                                                                                                  70
September 10, 1973                                                                                    70
World Bank-8117






ANNEX 4
JOB DESCRIPTION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISOR
TO INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Post:     Investment Advisor
Period of appointment: 1 or 2 years
Duty Station:    Khartoum (Sudan)
Language: English
General Background and Qualifications:
The candidate should have a university degree and/or professional
qualifications in either business, accounting, or economics. He should have
several years experience in financial and economic appraisal of projects and
evaluation of risks in an investment bank or a similar financial institution,
some of which should preferably have been acquired in developing countries.
Duties:
The Investment Advisor will work closely with the heads of the
Projects and Follow-up departments of IBS. He will assist in developing the
company's project appraisal capacity by training the Sudanese professional
staff in appraisal of financial and economic aspects of industrial projects
and helping improve the presentation of appraisal reports. Training in project
appraisal would involve analysis of existing financial statements, preparation
of financial projections and economic analysis of projects. He will also
assist the Follow-up Department in developing the Company's follow-up procedures
by drawing up formats and schedules for periodic reports by clients for checking
progress of implementation of projects and for evaluation of projects for the
information of the management. He will also train the Sudanese professional
staff in project supervision work. The Advisor's functions will be flexible
and will respond to the Company's operational needs as they arise.






Page 1
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Analysis of Approved Loans
(as of December 31, 1972)
Amount
A.   Size                     Number          %         (ES)          %
Up to Ls. 5,000                  38          33        124,400        5
Ls.  5,001 -  10,000             23          20        168,900        6
iLs. 10,001 -  20,000            17          14        249,700        9
Ls. 20,001 -  50,000             24          20        756,100       28
ls. 50,001 - 100,000             11          10        840,700       32
Ls.100,001 - 200,000              4           3        527,200       20
117         100     2,667,000       100
Weighted average = ES  25,000
Median            = LS  10,000
B.   Maturity
Up to 4 years                    34          29        450,200       17
4 -  5 years                     21          18        468,700       18
5 -  6 years                     38          32        576,500       21
6 - 10 years                     21          18        832,600       31
Over 10 years                     3           3        339f000       13
117         100     2,667,000       100
Weighted average = 7 Years
C.   Interest Rate
7%                              41           35       489,400        18
8%                                8           7        716,200       27
8-1/2%                           55          47     1,009,200        38
9-1/2%                           13          11        452,200       17
117         100     2,667,000       100
Weighted average = 8.25%



ANNEX 5
Page 2
D.   Industry                   Number          %       Amount        %
(E~S)
Food Processing
and Ice  'king                  24           20       382,000      15
Engineering Workshops             18           15       105,600       4
Textiles                          13           11       303,800      11
Printing and Packaging            10            9       330,100      12
Chemical                          10            9       176,800       7
Oil Mills                          8            7       188,500       7
Building Materials                 4            3       291,500      11
Flour Mills                        3            3        89,100       3
Miscellaneous                     27           23       799.600      30
117         100    2.667,000    100
E.   Location
Khartoum/Omdurman                 62           53    1,671,500       63
Blue Nile                         17           14       539,700      20
Kordofan                           9            8       101,000       4
Northern                           8            7        49,100       2
Darfur                             5            4        30,900       1
Kassala                            4            3       119,600       4
Equatoria                          4            3        44,500       2
Red Sea                            3            3        55,400       2
Bahr El Ghazal                     3            3        43,500       2
Upper Nile                         2            2        11,800       -
117         100    2,667,000    100
DFCD
June 21, 1973



ANNEX 6
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Summary of Operations 1966-1972
(Amounts in LstOOO)
1966     1967      1968     1969      1970     1971      1972
Approvals
Loans
Gross Amount           506      403       246       16       318      303       294
Cancellations           37      207        12        8        51       -         -
Net amount             469      196       234        8       267      303       294
No.                     15       17        13         2       10       18        19
Guarantees
Net amount             193       91        53        -       270      445        77
No.                      1        1         1        -         2       13         3
Total net approvals
Amount                 662      287       287         8      537      748       371
No.                     16       18        14        :2       12       31        22
Commitments
Loans
Amount                 279      196       188      106       133      201       144
No.                     10       11        12         6        9       11         8
Guarantees
Amount                  -       193        -        53        -       326       466
No.                     -         1        -         1        -        10         8
Total
Amount                 279      389       188      159       133      527       610
No.                     10       12        12         7        9       21        16
Disbursements
Loans                     243      294       109      200       163       84       157
DFCD
June 21, 1973






ANNEX 7
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Analysis of Guarantees Approved
(as of December 31, 1 72)
A. Size                                  Number                    Amount         7
Up to Is2O,000                         10           46      -i 5,lOO         1L
bs20,0O1-50,000                         4           19       132,200          12
kS50,001-100,000                        4           19       277,700          25
Over Ls 100,000                        3            14       593,700         52
Weighted average size   ES 54,000          21           100     1,1299,.00      100
Median size   ES 33,000
B. Maturity
Up to 4 years                          14           67       557,0U0          49
Over 4 and up to 5 years                5           24       402,600          -b
Over 5 years                            2            9       169,700          15
Weighted average maturity   4 Years        21           100     1,129,,.500      100
C.  IndsAtry
Oil Mi.Ils                             15           71       47b,500          42
Flour Mills                             2           10       457,0O0          40
BiscuLt Factories                       2           10        133,600         12
Miscellaneous                           2            9        60,200           6
21          100     1,129,j00        100
D.  Location
Khartoum Province                      14           67       405,400          36
Kassala Province                        3           15       415,500          37
Kordofan Province                       2           10       103,000           9
Blue Nile Province                      1            4       193,000          17
Bahr El GhazaL Province                 1            4        12,400           i
21          100     1,129,500         100
DFCD
June 21, 1973



A&NIEK 8
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Income Statements 1967-1972
(Amounts in £s' O0)
1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972
INVESTMENT INCOME
Interest                                  74.0    81.7    85.6    89.4    99.6    118.1
Commitment charges                          .5     1.1     2.0      3.3     2.7       1.7
Guarantee fees                             -       4.2     3.1      1.6     6.3       9.4
Miscellaneous income                       -        .1       .2      .8       .5      1.6
Interest income dae to                                      -        -    100.6        -
previous yearse!
Gross income                              74.5    87.1    90.9    95.1   209.7    130.8
OPERATING EXPENSES
Administrative expenses                   61.1    77.9    76.9    75.4    79.9       87.6
Depreciation and amortization            12.5    10.1    10.6    11.0       3.5       3.1
Interest on U.S. AID loan                 1.9      2.8     2.8      2.7     2.0      4.0
Total expenses                            75.5    90.8    90.3    89.1    85.4       94.7
INCOME BEFORE PROVISIONS (LOSS)           (1.0)   (3.7)      .6     6.0   124.3     36.1
PROVISIONS                                  -       -        -       -    100.6    273.4
INCOME AFTER PROVISIONS (LOSS)            (1.0)   (3.7)      .6     6.o    23.7   (237.3)
Administrative expenses as percentage
of average total assets.                  3.2      4.1     3.8      3.6     3.3       3.8
Net income after provisions as percentage
of average net worth                      -0.1    -0.2     0.0      0.3     1.1    -10.5
1/ Accrued interest on past overdue interest payments. An equal amount has been
set as provisions for non-recovery.
DFCD
September 10, 1973



AANhEX .9
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF S'DAN
Balance Sheets 1967 -- 1972
(Amounts in IGS 000)
Dec.31      Dec.31      Dec.31      Dec.31      Dec.31      Dec.31
ASSETS                              1967        1968        1969        1970        1971        1972
Cash and banks                     291          77         135          98         407         275
Other current assets                 3           5          12          22          28          58
Current assets                     294          82         147         120         435         333
Loans outstanding 1/             1,132       1,253       1,407       1,571       1 693       1 823
Less orovisions                      -           -           -           - _00)                374)
Equity jnvestrment                 438         438         4 38       28 U98hh
Loan and equity portfolio         TO           438                   2TQ54       273T        771
F-ixed assets and forma-            73          66          56          48          45          42
tion exmenses
Total assets                    1,937        1,839       2,048       2,177       2,511       2,269
LIABILITIES
Creditors and accrued
charges                           8            7           9          29          37          37
Provident FTlnd                      2           9          16          23          3v          30
US Aid loan                         70          70          70          66          61          56
Government loan 2/                 500         100           -           -           -           -
Paid-in share capital           1,500        1,800       2,100       2,200       2,500       2,500
Accumulated losses                 143         147         147         141         117         354
Net worth                        1,357       1,653       1,953       2,059       2,383       2,146
Total liabilities and
equity                        1,937       1,839       2,048       2,177        2,511       2,269
Guarantees outstanding               -         211         152         202         567         818
Undisbursed Commitments                                                                        275
1/ Includes interest in arrears.
2/ This is an interest free subordinated loan from the Government, which was
partly repaid and partly converted into equity during 1968 and 1969.
DFCD
June 1973






AITTEX 10
Page 1
INUJSTRIAL BAiH7 OrF STTDAT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
1.       Average interest rate on existing and future local currency loans:
8-1/2% p.a.  This is slightly above the average of interest on old loans which
varied between 7% and 8-1/2% and slightly below the average of interest rate
on new loans which varies between 8-1/2% and 9-1/2%. Average interest rate on
foreign currency loans is assumed to be 9% p.a.
2.       Commitment charges: 1/2% p.a. on local currency loans.  It is assumed
that commitment charges on foreign currency loans will be 3/4% p.a. to
correspond with charges payable by IBS to the Sudanese Government on commitments
under IDA credit.
3.       Guarantee fee:      2% p.a.
4.       Yield on new equity investments:  No dividends are assumed during
the projection period.
5.       Yield on short-term investments:  Starting latter half of 1973 surplus
funds will be invested in treasury bills at 3% p.a.
6.       Amount of approvals:
Local currency loans: is. 650,000 in 1973, is. 300,000 in 1974 and
increasing by about 10% per annum thereafter.
Foreign currency loans: is. 875,000 in 1974 and iss. 1,025,000 in
1O75 and increasing by about 10% per annum thereafter.
Equity: Nil in 1973, is. 100,000 in 1974 and increasing by
Ls. 10,000 per annum thereafter.
Guarantees: Es. 450,000 in 1973 and nil thereafter.
7.       Relationship between approvals, commitments and disbursements:
(i)    About 15% of gross loan approvals will be cancelled.  Of the
balance, 50% will be committed in the year of approval and
50% in the following year;



ANTNEX 10
page 2
(ii)  50% ol loarn cormitments will be disbursed during the year
of comrfitment, 30% during the following year and 20% during
the third year;
(iii) Equity investments will be com-mitted and disbursed during the
year of approval;
(iv)  Guarantees approved in 1973 w-ill be covmnitted up to is. 423,000
in 1973 and -s. 27,000 in 1974.
(v)   Tfndisbirsed locan cc*nitments as of Decemciber 31, 1972, amounting
to Es. 275,000 will be disbursed in local currency to the extent
of LTs 265,000 in 1.973 and Is, 10,000 in 1974;
(vi) Uncommirtted loan approvals as of recember 31, 1972, amounting
to ;s  344,000 will be committed as to Ls. 258,000
in 1973 and 5s. 86,000 in l974. These will be disbursed to the
extent of' Es. 177,O00 in 1973 and Es. 167,000 in 1974, in local
currency;
(vii) Disbursements on accoun-'t of defaults under guarantees are
assumed at 20% of "he soheduled repayment.
8.      Repayments of loans are assamed to be in seven equal annual instalments
commencing one year after the year of last disbursement.  Repayments of
disbursements under guarantee defaults are assumed in two years commencing one
year after disbursement.
9.      Collections are assumed at 80% of the scheduled amounts and provisions
for doubtful debts have been made in the annual accounts at 10% of the
scheduled collections.
10.     IBS' paid-up ca-oital will increase by  ,s. 200,000 in 1974.
11.     IBS will contract foreign currency borrowings to cover the entire import
component of its comirity-ents after January 1974e  Foreign exchange commitments
in 1974 include some commitinents in respect of 1973 approvals.  Draw-down on



ANNEX 10
page 3
these borrowings will correspond to IBS' disbursements. Average interest
rate will be 7¼s p.a. with no commitment charge until approval of subprojects.
12.     Administrative expenses increase by 5% p.a. from 1975.  (Higher in-
creases in 1973 and 1974 are due to revision of salaries.)
13.     IBS' profits are not subject to taxes and no dividends will be dis-
tributed during the projection period.
DFCD
June 21, 1973






ANNEX 11
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF STDAN
Projected Operations
(Amounts in os.t00o)
1973     1974     1975     1976     1977
APPROVALS
Foreign Exchange Loans (gross)       (650)     875    1,025    1,125    1,240
Local Currency Loans (gross)         (   )    300       330      360       400
Equity Investments                     -       IOO      110      120       130
Loans and Equity                      650    1,275    1,465    1,605    1,770
Guarantees                            450       -        -         -        _
COMMITMENTS
Foreign Exchange Loans                 -       595+     808      912    1,005
Local Currency Loans                  532*     266*     268      292       323
Equity Investments                     -       100      110      120       130
Loans and Equity                      532      961    1,186    1,324    1,458
Guarantees signed                     423       27       _-                 -
L[SBURSE)4ENTS
Foreign Exchange Loans                 -       297      583       817      938
Local Currency Loans                  579**    32**    22j       2t        39?
Payments under guarantees              47                 ov
Equity Investments                     -       100      110      120       130
Loans and Equity                      626      814      994    1,244    1,406
REPAYMENT OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE
LOANS                                  -        -        -         -        68
REPAYMENT OF LOCAL CURRENCY LOANS    396       324      259       234      228
EXPIRED GUARANTEES                    235      341      292       227      173
*   Include camnitments in respect of outstanding approvals as of December 31,
1972.
** Include disbursements in respect of outstanding commitments as of December
31, 1972.
+   Includes conmitments in foreign exchange in respect of 1973 approvals.
DFCD
June 21, 1973



AMTNEX 12
rNaTSTRTAL BANK nF SrTDAN
Projected Resources Position
(Amounts in ;s.'000)
1973      1974      1975    1976      1977
Foreign Exchange Resources
Commitments (cumulative) to be covered
by foreign exchange borrowings            -        595     1403    2315      3320
Local Currency Resources
l'ncommitted local currency resources
at the beginning of the year              -        211      429      834      744
-let cash generation including
collections and debt repayments         443       384       338      322      324
Increase in paid-in capital             300       200         -        -        -
Sale of equity investments                -          -      445-'      -        -
Total local currency resources          743        795     1212    1156      1068
New commitments                         532        366      378      412      453
Uncommitted local resources
at the end of the year                  211        429      834      744      615
* includes TBS investment of Es. 7,000 in the equity of Plastic Sacks factory,
also likely to be disinvested by 1975.
DFCD
September 10, 1973



AIINEX 13
NDTTSTRIAL BANTP OF SUIAN
Projected Cash Flow Statements 1973-77
(Amounts in 0s'O00)
1973      1974     1975    1976      1977
SOURCES
Profit                                20         41       48       61       61
Depreciation                            3         4         4       4        4
Provisions                            37         28       32       29       37
--0     -7 3       8410
Increase in creditors                  5          5        6        6        6
Draw-down on foreign exchange
borrowings                             -       297      583      817      938
Loan collections - foreign
exchange                               -         -         -       -       68
Loan collections - local currency   396         324      259      234      228
Increase in share capital            300        200        -        -        -
Sale of short-term investments
(Treasury Bills)                       -          -        -     100       200
Sale of equity investments              -         -                    445    -
TOTAL SOURCES                761       899   1377   1,251    1,542
USES
Increase in fixed assets               5          2        2        2        2
Disbursements in foreign
exchange                               -       297      583      817      938
Disbursements of local currency)
loans & defaults on guarantees)    626         417      301     307       338
Increase in equity investments          -       100      110      120      130
Repayment of borrowings               13         13        5        6       74
Short-term investments               250        100      350        -        -
Increase (decrease) in cash         (133)       (30)      26      (1)       60
TOTAL IJSES                  761        899    1,377   1,251    1,542
DFCD
September 10, 1973



ANNEX 14
INDJSTRIAL BATM' OF SIJDAN
Projected Income Statements 1973-77
(Amounts in Jas.OOO)
1972      1973     1974    1975      1976    1977
Actual
INCOME
Interest                           118.1     132.9    159.9   205.3    273.2   357.0
Commitment charges                   1.7       1.2       2.0     3.9      5.2      5.9
Guarantee fees                       9.4      18.2      17.0    10.9      5.7      1.7
Interest on short-term investments    -        1.9       9.0    15.8     19.5    15.0
Miscellaneous income                 1.6       1.8       2.0     2.2      2.4      2.6
TOTAL INCOME                130.8     156.0    189.9   238.1    306.0   382.2
EXPENSES
Interest on borrowings and other
financial charges                   4.0       3.0      14.6    47.3     99.1   160.9
Salaries and other personnel
expenses                           73.7      82.0      90.0    94.5    100.0   105.0
Other administra'ive and
general expenses                   13.9      11.0      12.0    12.6     13.2    13.9
Depreciation                         3.1       3.5       4.0     4.0      4.0      4.0
TOTAL EXPENSES               94.7      99.5    120.6   158.4    216.3   283.8
Net income before provisions        36.1      56.5      69.3    79.7     89.7    98.4
Provisions                         273.4      37        28      32       29       37
Net income after provisions
(loss)                           (237.3)     19.5    41.3      47.7     60.7    61.4
Income before provisions as %
of average net worth                1.6       2.5       2.7     2.9      3.2      3.5
Income after provisions as %
of average net worth              -10.5       0.8       1.6     1.7      2.2      2.2
Administrative Excpenses as %
of average total assets             3.8       4.0       3.7     3.2      2.8      2.4
DFCD
September 10, 1973



ANNEX 15
INDUSTRIAL BANk,' OF SUDAN
Projected Balance Sheets 1973-1977
(Amounts in ;s.'000)
(As of December 31)
1972      1973     1974    1975     1976    1977
(Actual)
ASSETS
Cash                               275       142      112     138      137     197
Short-term investments               -       250      350     700      600    400
Other current assets                58        58       58      58       58      58
333       450      520    796       795     655
Loans outstanding                1,823     2,053    2,443   3,068    3,958   4,938
Provisions                        (374)     (411)    (439)  (471)    (500)  (537)
Bquity investments                 445       445      545     210      330     460
1,894     2,087    2,549   2,807    3,788   4,861
Fixed Assets                        42        44       42      40       38      36
TOTAL ASSETS               2,269     2,581    3,111   3,743    4,621  5,552
LTABTILTTIES
Creditors & accrued charges         52        57       62      68       74      80
TJ.S.A.I.D. and Czech loans         71        58       45      40       34      28
Bcrrowings under IDA Credit          -         -      297     880   1,697   2,567
71       58       342     920    1,731   2,595
Paid-up capital                  2,500     2,800    3,000   3,000    3,000   3,000
Profit and loss account           (354)     (334)   (293)   (245)   (184)   (123)
N1sTet worth                     2,146-   2,466    277   2,755    2-,1    2,T77T
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY 2,269     2,581    3,111   3,743    4,621   5,552
IJndisbursed commitments           275       228      443     693      818     905
Guarantees outstanding             818     1,006      692     400      173       -
Debt/Equity Ratio                  .03       .02      .12    .33       .60     o88
DFCD
September 10, 1973



ANNEX 16
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Amount ($1000)
1974
Third Quarter                                                       400
Fourth Quarter                                                      455
1975
First Quarter                                                       400
Second Quarter                                                      425
Third Quarter                                                       400
Fourth Quarter                                                      450
1976
First Quarter                                                       300
Second Quarter                                                      250
Third Quarter                                                       250
Fourth Quarter                                                      235
1977
First Quarter                                                       225
Second Quarter                                                      210
4,o000
DFCCD
,uuns 21., 1973



