 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14755

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 06/09/2015

               Country: China
             Project ID: P098654                                                    Appraisal               Actual
          Project Name: Thermal Power                Project Costs (US$M):                  108.96                   96.36
                         Efficiency
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                     19.70                  19.54
      Sector Board:        Energy and Mining          Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                               05/05/2009
                                                               Closing Date:            12/31/2012          06/30/2014
          Sector(s):       Public administration- Energy and mining (61%); Energy efficiency in Heat and Power (39%)
          Theme(s):        Climate change (47%); Pollution management and environmental health (26%); Rural
                           services and infrastructure (16%); Environmental policies and institutions (11%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva          Peter Nigel Freeman     Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The project development objective is "to reduce coal consumption and greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) per unit of
electricity production in Shanxi Province, Shandong Province, and Guangdong Province", as per the Global
Environment Facility (GEF) Grant Agreement dated June 21, 2009, (p.6).

The statement of the project development objective in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p.6) is identical,
however it expands further to specify how this objective would be achieved: through (i) mitigating the financial barriers
of closing inefficient small-sized coal-fired units; (ii) demonstrating the viability of investments in efficiency
improvements in existing mid-sized thermal units; and (iii) developing effective regulations to implement the pilot
Energy Saving Dispatch (ESD) programs and conducting studies to support the transition to efficient generation
dispatch.

This ICR Review is based upon IEG’s assessment of the achievement of the project objective as formulated in the
legal document.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:

Component 1: Mechanisms to Support the Closure of Inefficient Small Coal -fired Generation Units (appraised
US$36.42 million, with GEF Grant at US$9.5 million; actual US$37.3 million, with GEF Grant at US$5.9 million) was to
support the closure of inefficient small thermal units and greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction in Shandong
(4,300 MW) and Shanxi (2,870 MW) by 2010, and help pilot a transparent and effective financial incentive mechanism
for the closure of small units (MCSU).

Component 2: Demonstration of Power Plant Efficiency Improvement (appraised US$56.4 million, with GEF Grant at
US$3.6 million; actual US$51.3 million, with GEF Grant at US$7.6 million) included the following activities: (i)
conversion of mid-sized power generation only units into combined heat and power (CHP) units, at Huangtai Thermal
Power Plant in Shandong; (ii) waste heat recovery at thermal power units and utilization for district heating, at Jinan
Beijiao Thermal Power Plant in Shandong; and (iii) improvement of power generation efficiency resulting from plant
energy audit recommendations, at Yangguang Thermal Power Plant in Shanxi.

Component 3: Transition to Efficient Generation Dispatch (appraised US$7.3 million, with GEF Grant at US$4.1
million; actual US$4.6 million, with GEF Grant at US$4.1 million) was designed to help pilot transition to an efficient
energy saving dispatch in Guangdong Provincial Power Grid, including development or improvement of the detailed
regulations required to commence the piloting, as well as provide continued support for the improvement of the
approach and regulations for generation dispatch and replication to other provinces.

Component 4: Technical Assistance for Project Implementation (appraised US$1.9 million, with GEF Grant at
US$1.3 million; actual US$1.55 million, with GEF Grant at US$1.55 million) included hiring of international and local
consultants for operational management, technical advisory, procurement and financial management at the
implementing agencies (IA) to support project implementation, M&E and replication of successful experience and
practices.

Component 5: Project Management (appraised US$1.9 million, with GEF Grant at US$0.4 million; actual US$1.7
million, with GEF Grant at US$0.34 million) was to provide budget support for the incremental operating costs of the
IAs resulting from the project implementation.


During the project restructuring in January 2013, the following modifications were made:

    Component 1: (i) The activity on closure of small coal-fired units was canceled in Shanxi and reduced in size in
     Shandong because this had been carried out by provincial governments that accelerated the closure of small
     coal-fired units; (ii) The activity on establishment of a CHP online monitoring in Shanxi was canceled due to the
     provincial government's decision; (iii) The establishment of electronic bulletin systems for emission allowances of
     closed small coal-fired units in Shandong and Shanxi was expanded to support the pilot emission trading
     systems in both Shandong and Shanxi province.

    Component 2 was expanded to include rehabilitation of three additional power plants in Shandong and Shanxi
     provinces.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project cost: The actual project cost was US$96.4 million, 88.4% of the appraised estimate of US$108.96 million.

Financing: GEF Grant in the amount of US$19.70 million was disbursed at US$19.54 million by project closure.

Borrower contribution : At appraisal, the counterpart funding was estimated at US$89.26 million, of which US$15.50
million were from the central government (Recipient) and US$73.76 million were from the provincial governments,
power plants and commercial loans from local banks (sub-borrowers). At project closure, the actual contribution of the
Recipient increased to US$25.52 million, and the contribution from sub-borrowers reduced to US$51.3 million, to total
US$76.82 million.

Dates: The project closing date was extended twice by a total of 18 months from the original closing date of December
31, 2012 to June 30, 2014, through two project restructurings. The first extension in 2012 was for one year to
December 31, 2013, due to delays. During project restructuring in January 2013, the scope of activities was modified
(see section 2c above), along with modification of the intermediate indicators to reflect the changes, and the outcome
targets were revised upward. The second project closing date extension in 2013 was for six months to complete the
studies and dissemination activities.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
In 2006, coal-fired generation in China consumed an average 366 gce/kWh, compared to a 300 gce/kWh benchmark
in Japan or Europe. The main factors contributing to China’s low power generation efficiency were: (i) China’s large
share of generation by inefficient small units; (ii) generation dispatch not optimized for achieving
maximum efficiency; (iii) small Combined Heat and Power (CHP) units operating for power generation only; and (iv)
old mid-sized coal-fired units operating at relatively high coal consumption rate. The government put closure of small
generation units as a priority action in its 11th Five-Year period (2006-2010) pursuing a 20% reduction of energy
consumption per unit output of gross domestic product (GDP) by 2010 and aimed to complete the rehabilitation of
medium-size coal-fired thermal power plants in its 12th Five-Year period (2011-2015). The Medium and Long Term
Energy Conservation Plan (2004-2020) targeted a reduction of energy intensity from 2.68 tce per RMB 10,000 of GDP
output of 2002 to 2.25 tce by 2010 and 1.54 tce by 2020. The objectives were relevant to the Bank's Country
Partnership Strategy FY2006-2010, which was supporting more efficient energy supply. The project objectives
remained relevant to the Bank's Country Partnership Strategy FY2013-2016, which supports shifting to a sustainable
energy path, in particular energy efficiency.


 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.
The statement of the development objectives was clear, and there was a clear causal chain between the activities
financed by the project and outcomes related to the attainment of the project objectives. Reduction of coal
consumption and greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) per unit of electricity production in three Chinese provinces was
to be achieved through closure of inefficient small coal-fired generation units and rehabilitation of power plants in the
Shandong and Shanxi provinces (Component 1 and 2), and pilot transition to an efficient Energy Saving Dispatch
(ESD) in the Guangdong Provincial Power Grid (Component 3).

The first component aimed to demonstrate a sound financial and social management for closure of the small coal-fired
units. The second component presented a holistic approach to improve efficiency of the thermal plants by using
energy audits to identify areas for efficiency improvement, piloting leading energy- saving technologies, and promoting
best practice for plant operation and maintenance. Under the third component, the pilot ESD simulation system was
designed to identify optimal dispatch rules to improve operation of the existing ESD in Guangdong, and the upstream
policy studies targeted key policy gaps for sustaining ESD and its national roll-out.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

To reduce coal consumption and greenhouse gas em issions (GHG) per unit of electricity production in Shanxi
Province, Shandong Province, and Guangdong Province .

* As the outcome targets were revised, the Review evaluates the project's efficacy against the original and revised outcome targets.
In this case, the rating is the same, as both outcome targets were over-achieved.

Under the original and revised outcome targets : Substantial.

Outputs

In the Shandong province:
     Technical assistance was carried out in the Shandong province to pilot the mechanism for the closure of small
      units (MCSU) to support small generation companies in closing down inefficient small units, through financial
      incentives ( an output-based payment per MW closed) and social mitigation (provision of vocational trainings and
      financial compensation for affected workers).
     9 small coal-fired plants were closed down with the total capacity of 225 MW. According to the ICR's Results
      Framework, the total capacity of the closed down small units in Shandong was 7,733 MW, exceeding the target
      of 4,300MW.
     The combined heat and power (CHP) online monitoring system was put into operation in 2007 to help the
      Shandong government enforce their regulations for CHP plants.
     3 thermal power plants were upgraded, i.e., Huangtai, Jinan Beijiao, and Weihai plants.
     The project supported the design, development, and operation of the Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) emission allowance
      trading system, which was established in Weifang city in Shandong Province in 2012.

In the Shanxi province:
     The provincial government carried out the MCSU through their own funds.
     The combined heat and power (CHP) online monitoring system was cancelled, as the Shanxi provincial
     government decided not to establish such a monitoring system as the amount of existing combined heat and
     power (CHP) units was reduced substantially after most of the small coal-fired units had been closed.
    3 thermal power plants were upgraded, i.e., Yangguang, Wuxiang, and Taiyuan No. 1 plants.
    Technical assistance was provided for the development of the Shanxi SO2 emission allowance trading system,
     which became operational in 2012.

In the Guangdong province:
    The Energy Saving Dispatch (ESD) simulation system was put into operation in 2012 for the Guangdong
     Provincial Power Grid to help identify gaps between actual and ideal operations of the ESD that has been
     operating in the province since 2008. A number of policy studies were also carried out to identify key policy gaps
     for sustaining ESD and its national roll-out.
    The combined heat and power (CHP) online monitoring system was put into operation in 2011 in the Guangdong
     province, with four CHP plants being connected to the monitoring system. This number was expected to increase
     to 17 at the end of 2014, covering all the CHP plants in Guangdong.
    An information disclosure system was established based on the actual ESD operation in Guangdong to provide
     an open platform for data collection, analysis, exchange, inquiry, and management. The ICR p. 35 reports that
     the Guangdong Power Grid Corporation was developing a brand new Operation and Management System
     (OMS), which would integrate the existing information disclosure system.


Outcome

In the Shandong province:
    The average coal consumption per unit of coal-fired electricity output reduced from 382 to 332 gce/kWh,
     exceeding the original and revised targets of 369 and 366 gce/kWh. The GHG emissions per unit of coal-fired
     electricity output reduced from 1045 to 909 kgCO2/MWh, exceeding the original and revised targets of 1009 and
     1002 kgCO2/MWh.
    For the upgraded power plants, thermal efficiency improved from 40.3% to 56.4% at the Huangtai plant (target
     44.4%) and from 57% to 77.8% at Jinan Beijiao (target 66.8%). In case of the Weihai plant, thermal efficiency
     was 72.84%, below the targeted 77.9%. The actual cost savings/GHG emission reductions at these plants did not
     meet the targets: Huangtai (0.064mtce/0.16 mtons against the targeted 0.17mtce/0.47 mtons); Jinan Beijiao
     (0.03mtce/0.069 mtons against the targeted 0.06mtce/0.16 mtons); Weihai (0.0064mtce/0.0155 mtons against
     the targeted 0.007mtce/0.017 mtons). According to the ICR, this was mainly caused by shorter operation hours
     than planned for these plants.
    The SO2 emission trading scheme was established at the end of 2012, and the Weifang government has been
     allocating quota to the local enterprises in the primary market, with results publicly disclosed. Actual transactions
     in the secondary market, however, have been put on hold until the issuance of the national policy for a pollutants
     emission allowance trading system (ICR, p.31).

In the Shanxi province:
    The average coal consumption per unit of coal-fired electricity output reduced from 373 to 347 gce/kWh,
     exceeding the original and revised targets of 357 and 354 gce/kWh. The GHG emissions per unit of coal-fired
     electricity output reduced from 1020 to 951 kgCO2/MWh, exceeding the original and revised targets of 977 and
     970 kgCO2/MWh.
    For the upgraded power plants, thermal efficiency targets were exceeded: 39.49% at the Yangguang plant (target
     35.8%), 39.5% at Wuxiang (target 38.4%), and 41.26% at Taiyuan No. 1 (target 40.9%). The actual cost
     savings/GHG emission reductions met the target at Yangguang (0.0664mtce/0.1661 mtons against the targeted
     0.04mtce/0.11 mtons) and Wuxiang (0.01738mtce/0.038 mtons against the targeted 0.014mtce/0.031 mtons). At
     Taiyuan No. 1, the target was not met (0.0041mtce/0.012 mtons against the targeted 0.008mtce/0.023 mtons).
    The SO2 emission trading scheme supported under the project in Shanxi led to the issuance of Guidance Note
     on Further Promotion of Paid Use of Pollutants Emission Allowance and Pilot Trade by the State Council in 2014.
     More than 20 provinces organized study tours to Shanxi and four provinces followed the Shanxi practice to
     establish independent emission allowance trading centers to manage emission control.


In the Guangdong province:
    The average coal consumption per unit of coal-fired electricity output reduced from 342 gce/kWh to 299 gce/kWh,
     exceeding the original and revised targets of 332 and 330 gce/kWh. The GHG emissions per unit of coal-fired
     electricity output reduced from 935 kgCO2/MWh to 815 kgCO2/MWh, exceeding the original and revised targets
     of 908 and 900 kgCO2/MWh. The attribution of the project to this outcome, however, is weak, as the project
     support was limited only a few TA activities (see outputs above).
    The ESD simulation system continues to be used to improve the energy saving dispatch operation in the province
     of Guangdong, according to the ICR p.21. The ICR notes, however, the decision to roll out ESD at the national
     level has not yet been made; the ESD policy studies did not lead to the issuance of national policies or
     regulations, as these were strongly linked to much broader power sector reforms, including pricing reform.

The ICR p.16 reports that the mechanism for the closure of small units (MCSU) provided technical inputs to the
issuance of a national policy, Central Government Fiscal Incentives to Phase out Inefficient Capacity, which was
issued by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) in 2011 and guides the further closure of 20 GW in inefficient capacity during
the 12th FYP period. Two technical studies, which complemented the thermal efficiency investments contributed to
the issuance of two national policies regarding plant rehabilitation in China, i.e. Administrative Measures on Fiscal
Incentives on Energy-saving Technologies issued jointly by MOF and the National Development and Reform
Commission (NDRC) in 2011, and Notice on Undertaking a Comprehensive Upgrading of Coal-fired Power Plants
issued jointly by MOF and NDRC in 2012.


5. Efficiency:

The ex-post economic internal rates of return (EIRRs) for the six upgraded thermal plants (which constituted 53% of
final project cost) are estimated to be in the range of 11.3% and 176.2%. The ex-ante EIRRs were estimated for the
original three plants at appraisal (the aggregate ex-ante EIRR 30.5% (PAD, p.91)), and for the additional three plants
at project restructuring in 2012. The financial internal rates of return (FIRRs) were also estimated at appraisal and
project closure, using the sensitivity analysis of 10% increase in fixed investment and 10% decrease in efficiency gain.
For Huangtai, Beijiao, and Yangguang thermal power plants, the ex-post EIRRs and FIRRs are all higher compared to
ex-ante because actual capital expenditures were significantly below the levels anticipated at appraisal. In addition, Y
angguang thermal plant saved more coal than estimated at appraisal, resulting in greater savings from the reduction
of coal expenditure. For Wuxiang, Taiyi, and Weihai thermal power plants, the ex-post EIRRs and FIRRs are all lower
compared to ex-ante because of the decrease in coal price, which has reduced the benefit of the coal savings. In
addition, the actual coal savings for both Taiyi and Weihai power plants were lower than expected. The results are
below:

1. Huangtai: ex-post EIRR: 176.2% (ex-ante 20.4%); ex-post FIRR 186.77% (ex-ante 23.73%).
2. Beijiao: ex-post EIRR: 76.8% (ex-ante 26.7%); ex-post FIRR 91.79% (ex-ante 16.96%).
3. Yangguang ex-post EIRR: 85.7% (ex-ante 78.7%); ex-post FIRR 90.91% (ex-ante 88.69%).
4. Wuxiang, ex-post EIRR: 20.8% (ex-ante 25.1%); ex-post FIRR 11.9% (ex-ante 13.0%).
5. Taiyi ex-post EIRR: 11.3% (ex-ante 16.4%); ex-post FIRR 5.3% (ex-ante 7.7%).
6. Weihai ex-post EIRR: 31.2% (ex-ante 32.8%); ex-post FIRR 20.1% (ex-ante 25.4%).

The project's closing date was extended by 18 months to make up for slow progress during early years of project
implementation, mainly due to unfamiliarity with Bank-GEF procedures.

Efficiency is assessed as substantial.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                       Yes                                      30.5%                                    52%
     ICR estimate                    No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

Relevance of objectives is high, and that of design is substantial. Efficacy and efficiency are rated substantial. The
overall outcome is Satisfactory.
 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    The gains achieved through closure of inefficient small plants and rehabilitation of thermal plants are likely to be
    sustained. The ESD operations are likely to be continued into the GoC's 13th Five Year Plan 2016-2020. The
    decision, however, to roll out ESD at the national level has not been made yet. The uncertainties in other key
    sector reforms may slow down the promotion of ESD at the national level.


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

The project design built on Bank's international experience related to rehabilitation of thermal power plants and
incorporated lessons from earlier Bank operations related to mine closures and power sector reform in China and
other countries such as Russia and Poland. Most risks were adequately identified and all risks were rated either
low or modest (PAD, p.12-13). The risk that materialized and delayed the project at an early stage of
implementation was the weak project management capacity of one of the implementing agencies (i.e., National
Project Management Office (NPMO)) that mainly resulted from unfamiliarity with Bank requirements (ICR, p.11).
Financial and safeguard requirements were in place, and the M&E design was overall adequate, with some minor
shortcomings (see section 10a below). The prolonged preparation time (2.5 years), however, was identified as a
weakness by the Guangdong Power Grid Corporation. In particular, it undermined the added-value of the ESD
simulation system to the pilot ESD in Guangdong. The corporation expected to have the ESD simulation ready
before the pilot ESD to integrate the findings from the ESD simulation system (ICR, p.45).


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

Seven missions were carried out during five years of project implementation period (ICR, data sheet). In addition
to the formal missions, the Bank organized a number of technical assistance missions to provide guidance and
financial management and procurement training to the project management units at NPMO to speed up the project
implementation. The Bank team was flexible to make adjustments to adapt the project to the shifting provincial
priorities and restructured the project to cancel the sub-component for the closure of small thermal units in Shanxi
earmarking the resources to other emerging government priorities, including the pollutants emission allowance
trading system and innovative rehabilitation demonstration of an additional three thermal power plants. The early
period of project implementation was, however, characterized by insufficient communication between the project
team and the NPMO's project management units (PMUs) (ICR, p.11). The initial project delay was attributed by
the Shanxi PMU to lack of guidance from the Bank prior to its first mission that took place after one year into the
project implementation in April 2010 (ICR, p.44).


   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The GOC showed strong commitment to and ownership of energy efficiency reforms in the power sector. From
2006-2010, China improved energy efficiency by 19.1% and closed down 76 GW of small inefficient coal-fired
units, exceeding its target of 50 GW. Sufficient fiscal incentives were provided to support EE rehabilitation of
medium- and large-size thermal units in the 11th FYP. The rehabilitation of thermal plants continued to be a top
priority during the 12th FYP.

The Government commitment to the project was also strong. During project implementation, government officials
requested the GEF project for a range of analytical and advisory studies as inputs to the government’s EE policies
and regulations in the power sector. At project closure, the MOF's deputy director generals of the International
Department and the Economic and Construction Department attended the project closing workshop to
acknowledge the contributions of the GEF project.

   Government Performance Rating                                Highly Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:

There were multiple implementing agencies. The ICR rates each IA performance separately, as follows:

Six thermal power companies: highly satisfactory. Adequate technical capacity; mobilization of sufficient funds of
their own to ensure timely completion of their rehabilitation.

Shanxi Environmental Protection Bureau: highly satisfactory. a strong leadership role in advancing the agenda for
SO2 emission allowance trading at the provincial level.

Shanxi PMU and Guangdong PMU: satisfactory. Despite a lack of experience with Bank projects at an early stage
of the project, the PMUs quickly improved their project management capacity.

National Project Management Office (NPMO): moderately satisfactory. Key personnel changes (executive
director) slowed down project progress and led to the final extension the closing date by half a year.

Shandong PMU: moderately satisfactory. Although Shandong PMU gradually improved its management capacity,
capacity remained weak due to frequent staff turnover and project implementation was slowed down. On the other
hand, Shandong PMU performed well in closing down nine thermal plants in Shandong. The post-evaluation
report showed no unresolved issues associated with the closures.

Shandong Environmental Protection Bureau: moderately satisfactory. The Shandong EPB completed the
establishment of a SO2 emission allowance trading system in Weifang city and disseminated its experience.
However, only virtual trading transactions occurred in the secondary market in Weifang city.

Shandong Power Grid Company: satisfactory. The corporation completed the establishment of the CHP online
monitoring system on time and effectively used the monitoring data to inform its discussion with the relevant
government authorities on the scheduling of the power dispatch with CHP plants in Shandong.

Based on a highly satisfactory rating for all six thermal companies, satisfactory performance of the Shanxi and
Guangdong PMUs, and moderate shortcomings in the performance of the Shandong PMU and NPMO, the overall
performance rating is assessed as Satisfactory.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The key performance indicators for the project development objective were: the reduction of average coal
consumption and GHG emission per unit of coal-fired electricity output (gce/kWh) in Shandong, Shanxi and
Guangdong Provinces. The key indicators included baseline data and measurable targets set at appraisal (PAD
Annex 3). The attribution to the expected outcome in the Guangdong province, however, is not clear, as the outputs in
this province were limited only to a few TA activities. These outcome indicators are measuring the aggregate
efficiency improvements and GHG impacts in the power sector in the selected provinces, and, as noted by the ICR p.
25, more precise measurement of the project outputs would have enhanced attribution. For example, weighted
electricity supply efficiency (in gce/kWh), total energy savings contributed by the GEF project directly
(tce), avoided GHG emissions (ton CO2), or a weighted emission factor (ton CO2/MWh).

During project restructuring in 2012, the outcome targets were revised upward, and a number of the intermediate
indicators were modified, as follows: (i) the cumulative capacity of small-coal fired power generation units closed in
Shanxi province indicator was dropped as the subcomponent was dropped, and (ii) the thermal efficiency
improvement and GHG emission reductions were added for three new power plants under Component 2.
b. M&E Implementation:

The required data were collected semiannually by the provincial PMUs and assessments were documented in the
project progress reports. All required data and information were collected when the provincial statistical data was
available, generally in the second half of the following year.

c. M&E Utilization:

The ICR p. 12 says that the results of the project were broadly communicated to a wide range of stakeholders, in
particular in case of the thermal plant rehabilitation components.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

This was a Category “B” project that triggered two safeguards policies at appraisal – OP4.01 Environmental
Assessment, and OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement. There were applicable for the investment activities that may
have resulted from the establishment and pilot operation of a transparent and effective financial incentive mechanism
for the closure of small units plant (MCSU) under Component 1 and the efficiency improvement projects under
Component 2 (PAD, p.20) . A new safeguard policy - OP 4.37 Safety of Dams was triggered during project
restructuring in 2012/2013, as the Wuxiang Power Plant and the Taiyuan No. 1 Power Plant to be rehabilitated under
the project were to withdraw water from reservoirs formed by two existing dams: Guanhe and Jinyanghu (
Restructuring paper 2012, p. 8).

Environmental Assessment and Management : Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) were prepared for the nine
closed small power plants and the six plants for rehabilitation following an approved Environmental Management
Framework. Environmental monitoring of noise, dust, waste water, and solid waste during project implementation was
carried out regularly to ensure EMPs were followed. The monitoring data showed that the plants fully complied with
relevant environmental standards and met the standards set in the Environmental Management Plan (ICR, p.13).

Involuntary Resettlement : The support to closure of nine small thermal plants was completed in June 2013. The
approved Resettlement Plan Framework and resettlement plans associated with the plants had been followed.
According to the ICR p.13, adequate compensation and social protection measures for settlement of affected workers
were provided. The post evaluation activity did not identify any remaining social issues.

Safety of Dams: The ICR does not report on the project's compliance with this policy. The project team subsequently
confirmed that the policy was complied with. The findings of the supervision missions that included a dam safety
specialist were all satisfactory.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Procurement: The ICR p. 13 reports that procurement was carried out generally in accordance with Bank procurement
policies and procedures. The issues identified by the prior and post review were addressed, i.e., delayed payments by
some individual consultants and suppliers in 2010-2011, insufficient maintainance of the record of procurement
documents and procurement of some contracts not in line with the agreed procurement plan by the Shandong PMU.

Financial management. The ICR p.13 reports, the financial reports were submitted generally on time and all audited
financial reports were unqualified. Issues that arose during project implementation were all addressed, according to
the ICR, p.14.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Satisfactory         The overall performance of the multiple
                              Satisfactory                                       implementing agencies is assessed as
                                                                                 satisfactory.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

Two lessons were selected from the ICR, with some adaptation of the language:

    Significant demonstration effects can be attained for rehabilitation through proper selection of tech nology
     based on cost-effectiveness and replication potential , as well as extensive dissemination activities . Under this
     project, six thermal plants collectively hosted more than 30 study tours for staff from other thermal plants
     located both inside and outside their respective provinces. Several demonstrated technologies (CHP, waste
     heat utilization, variable frequency control) have been turned into standard industrial practices.

    Flexibility is required to adapt project implementation to evolving government priorities . The rapid government
     interventions, along with the project delay at the outset of the project, necessitated a revision to the project
     sub-components.

One lesson is selected from the Recipient's report (ICR's Annex 7):

    Dissemination efforts at the national level should be included as a major design element to promote the
     application of knowledge and project outputs . The potential impacts of knowledge outputs could have been
     more significant if the project was designed to have a greater link to line ministries at the national level and
     targeted a broader range of stakeholder at the national level.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR is clear and concise. It covers well the important aspects of the project implementation experience. Lessons
are evidence-based. The ICR however does not mention the safeguard policy on Safety of Dams that was triggered at
restructuring. Also, the ICR's Results Framework has calculation errors, i.e., the actual values exceeding the targets
by 212% and 258% under GEO Indicator 1, and by 216% and 242% under GEO indicator 2.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
