The World Bank                                OFFIC       H Street N.W.          (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELO  ENT  "Maa  gton D.C. 20433    Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION      DOCUM I      f                      Cable Address: INDEVAS
January 16, 2013
Mr. Liang Ziqian
Deputy Director General
International Department
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe, Beijing 100820
Dear Mr. Liang,
China: Thermal Power Efficiency Project
(GEF Grant No. TF094204-CN)
Amendment to GEF Grant Agreement
We refer to the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Grant Agreement, dated
June 21, 2009, between the People's Republic of China (the Recipient) and the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the World Bank), acting as an Implementing Agency of the
GEF, and the Project Agreement of the same date among the World Bank, Shandong Province,
Shanxi Province, and Guangdong Power Grid Corporation (the latter three, collectively, the
Project Implementing Entities), both for the above-referenced project (the Project) (the Grant
Agreement and the Project Agreement, respectively).  We also refer to the letters dated
November 3, 2011, February 7, 2012, and November 9, 2012 from the International Department
of the Ministry of Finance on behalf of the Recipient, requesting certain amendments to the Grant
and Project Agreements to facilitate Project implementation, as well as discussions among the
Recipient, the World Bank, and the Project Implementing Entities relating to other amendments
during supervision of the Project, as reflected in the aide-memoires transmitted to the Recipient
and the Project Implementing Entities through the World Bank's letters dated November 25, 2011
and May 10, 2012.
We are pleased to inform you that the World Bank concurs with the request and proposes
to amend the Grant Agreement as set forth below.
1.     Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows (emphasis added):
"2.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the project described
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project"). To this end, the Recipient shall:
(i) carry out, through MOF and with the participation of NDRC, NEA, and
SERC, its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the provisions of
Article II of the Standard Conditions and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines; and
(ii) cause the Project Implementing Entities to carry out their Respective Parts of
the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement."
2.     Schedule I is amended to read as set forth in Attachment I to this amendment letter
(emphasis added).
3.     The table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 is amended to read as set forth in Attachment 2
to this letter (emphasis added).
RCA 248423. U WUI 64145 C FAX (202) 477-6391


﻿Mr. Liang Ziqian                        2                      January 16, 2013
GEF Gr. No. TF094204-CN                                        GA Amendment
4.     Section IV.B.2 of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows:
"2.    Amounts withdrawn in respect of expenditures under Category 3 (c) of the table
in Part A.2 of this Section IV shall be equal to the amount resulting from
multiplying the Outputs by the following established Output unit cost, namely,
$6,800, or such other Output unit cost as may be established by the World Bank
in consultation with, and upon notification to, the Recipient and Shandong
Province.
5.     "Shanxi Province", wherever it appears in the sections entitled "Outcomes by
Components" and "Outcome Indicators" in the table in Annex I to Schedule 2, is deleted.
6.     Sections I (g), (u), (ii), (11), and (mm) (the latter two renumbered as (nn) and (oo)) of the
Appendix are amended to read as set forth in Attachment 3 to this amendment letter
(emphasis added), new paragraphs (1), (m), (n), (o), (p), (t), (kk), (11), (pp), (qq), (rr), (ss),
(tt), and (uu) as set forth in said Attachment are introduced in Section I of the Appendix,
and subsequent paragraphs in said Section are renumbered accordingly.
7.     A new Section II is introduced in the Appendix as follows:
"Section II.  Modifications to the Standard Conditions
The modification to the Standard Conditions is as follows, namely, that Section 3.06 (a)
is modified to read as follows:
"(a)   the payment is for the reasonable cost of goods, non-consulting services,
consultants' services, MCSU grants, training, or operating costs required for the Project,
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant and procured, all in accordance with the
provisions of the Grant Agreement;""
Except as specifically amended by this amendment letter, all other provisions of the
Grant Agreement remain in full force and effect.
Upon receipt by the World Bank of: (i) an original of this amendment letter duly
countersigned by the authorized representative of the Recipient; and (ii) an original of the
amendment letter relating to the Project Agreement duly countersigned by the respective
authorized representatives of Shandong Province, Shanxi Province, and Guangdong Power Grid
Corporation, this amendment letter shall become effective on a retroactive basis as of
October 1, 2011.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the GEF
Klaus Rohland
Country Director, China


﻿Mr. Liang Ziqian                        3                      January 16, 2013
GEF Gr. No. TF094204-CN                                        GA Amendment
AGREED:
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By::           _    _
Authorized RepresAtative
Name: ZZVV Z          thoa n
Title:           yw,vCine',
Date:           6~6 3~~
Cc:    Mr. Sun Wei
Vice Governor
Shandong Province
Mr. Gao Jianmin
Vice Governor
Shanxi Province
Mr. Liao Jianhua
General Manager
Guangdong Power Grid Corporation


﻿Mr. Liang Ziqian                       4                      January 16, 2013
GEF Gr. No. TF094204-CN                                       GA Amendment
Attachment 1
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to reduce coal consumption and greenhouse gas emissions
per unit of electricity production in Guangdong, Shandong, and Shanxi Provinces.
The Project consists of the following parts:
A.     Closure of Inefficient Small Coal-fired Generation Units
1.    (a)    Establishment of a transparent and effective financial incentive mechanism for
the closure of small coal-fired generation units (MCSU).
(b)    Implementation of pilot MCSU programs in Shandong Province through the
provision of MCSU Grants.
2.     Establishment of online heat supply monitoring systems for combined heat and power
units in Shandong Province.
3.     Implementation of pilot emissions trading systems in Shandong and Shanxi
Provinces.
4.     Monitoring and evaluation of outputs and impacts of Parts A. 1, 2, and 3 of the Project.
B.     Demonstration of Power Plant Efficiency Improvement
1.    Retrofitting of Participating Power Plants in Shandong Province for improvement
of thermal power generation efficiency.
2.     Retrofitting of Participating Power Plants in Shanxi Province for improvement of
thermal power generation efficiency.
3.     Development of national-level procedures and processes based on international best
practice for guidance to thermal power plants in relation to energy audits and
operation and maintenance.
4.     Monitoring and evaluation of outputs and impacts of Parts B.1, 2, and 3 of the Project,
and knowledge- and experience-sharing with other provinces.
C.     Transition to Efficient Generation Dispatch
1.    Provision of technical assistance to SERC and GDPG to support an efficient fuel-saving
dispatch (ESD) pilot program in the Guangdong provincial electricity grid, including:
(a)    development of relevant regulations and procedures for implementation of such
pilot ESD program; and


﻿Mr. Liang Ziqian                       5                      January 16, 2013
GEF Gr. No. TF094204-CN                                       GA Amendment
(b)    development of dispatch simulation systems at Guangdong Provincial Grid
Dispatch Center for identification of further dispatch improvements, and
implementation of such systems.
2.     Evaluation of results of pilot ESD program in the provinces of Guangdong, Guizhou,
Henan, Jiangsu, and Sichuan, and making of recommendations for improvement of the
Recipient's regulations in relation to generation dispatch.
3.     Provision of technical assistance to NEA in undertaking studies in relation to generation
pricing and tariff reform in line with efficient generation dispatch practices.
4.     Provision of technical assistance to SERC in relation to development of power
market designs compatible with efficient generation dispatch practices.
D.     Project Implementation Support
Capacity building of and provision of operational support to National PMO, Shandong
Provincial PMO, Shanxi Provincial PEO, and GDPG Project Team in relation to Project
implementation.


﻿Mr. Liang Ziqian                        6                      January 16, 2013
GEF Gr. No. TF094204-CN                                       GA Amendment
Attachment 2
Amount of the      Percentage of
Grant        Expenditures to be
Category                       Allocated          Financed
(expressed in   (inclusive of Taxes)
USD)
(1) Recipient's Respective Part of the Project:                       100
(a) Goods, non-consulting services, consultants'  3,716,428
services (including for audits), and Training
(b) Operating Costs                            205,000
(2) Goods, non-consulting services, consultants'  2,770,000           100
services (including for audits), and Training for
GDPG's Respective Part of the Project
(3) Shandong Province's Respective Part of the
Project:
4,959,715            100
(a) Goods, non-consulting services, consultants'
services (including for audits), and Training
101,714             100
(b) Operating Costs
1,530,000      100% of amounts
(c) MCSU Grants                                                 disbursed
(4) Shanxi Province's Respective Part of the Project:                 100
(a) Goods, non-consulting services, consultants'  6,374,858
services (including for audits), and Training
(b) Operating Costs                            42,285
TOTAL AMOUNT                       19,700,000


﻿Mr. Liang Ziqian                        7                      January 16, 2013
GEF Gr. No. TF094204-CN                                        GA Amendment
Attachment 3
"(g)   "Environmental Management Plans" means, collectively, the Participating Power Plants
(as hereinafter defined)' plans, dated June and November 2011, prepared pursuant to the
Environmental Management Framework and agreed with the World Bank, setting forth
mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures, including capacity
building through training, to eliminate any adverse environmental impacts of their
respective activities to be implemented under Part B.1 or B.2 of the Project, as the case
may be, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, or enhance positive impacts, as
the same may be modified from time to time with the prior written agreement of the
World Bank, and such term includes any annexes, appendices, or schedules to such plan."
"(1)   "Guangdong Provincial Grid Dispatch Center" means GDPG's center, responsible for the
management of generation dispatch, or a successor thereto."
"(in)  "Guanhe Dam" means the dam of such name on Guanhe River (as hereinafter defined)."
"(n)   "Guanhe River" means the river of such name originating in Yushe County (as
hereinafter defined) and discharging in Wuxiang County (as hereinafter defined)."
"(o)   "Jinyanghu Dam" means the dam of such name on Jinyanghu Lake (as hereinafter
defined)."
"(p)   "Jinyanghu Lake" means the lake of such name in Taiyuan City (as hereinafter defined)."
"(t)   "NEA" means the Recipient's National Energy Administration, under the NDRC and
responsible for the management of energy administration, or a successor thereto."
"(u)   "Participating Power Plants / Grid Company" means, collectively: (i) the thermal power
plants selected by Shandong and Shanxi Provinces and agreed with the World Bank for
participation in Parts B. I and B.2 of the Project, respectively; and (ii) the provincial grid
company selected by Shandong Province to participate in Part A.2 of the Project, all of
which shall be established and operating in accordance with the Recipient's relevant
laws, or successors thereto."
"(ii)  "Respective Parts of the Project" means in respect of:
(i)   the Recipient, acting through MOF with the participation of NDRC, SERC, and
NEA, Parts A.1 (a), A.4, B.3, B.4, C.1 (a), C.2, C.3, and C.4 of the Project, and
Part D of the Project in relation to said Parts;
(ii)   Shandong Province, Parts A.1 (b), A.2, and B.1 of the Project, Part A.3 of the
Project within its jurisdiction, and Part D of the Project in relation to all of said
Parts;
(iii)  Shanxi Province, Part A.3 of the Project within its jurisdiction, Part B.2 of the
Project, and Part D of the Project in relation to both of said Parts; and
(iv)   GDPG, Part C.1 (b) of the Project, and Part D of the Project in relation to said
Part."


﻿Mr. Liang Ziqian                        8                      January 16, 2013
GEF Gr. No. TF094204-CN                                        GA Amendment
"(kk)  "Shandong Province" means the administrative subdivision of such name in the east of
the Recipient's territory, or a successor thereto."
"(11)  "Shanxi Province" means the administrative subdivision of such name in the east of the
Recipient's territory, or a successor thereto."
"(nn)  "Subsidiary Grant" means a grant to be made by: (i) the Recipient out of the proceeds of
the Grant to GDPG; or (ii) a Project Province out of the proceeds of the Grant to each of
its Participating Power Plants / Grid Company, each pursuant to the provisions of the
respective Subsidiary Grant Agreement."
"(oo)  "Subsidiary Grant Agreements" means, collectively: (i) the agreement to be entered into
between the Recipient and GDPG pursuant to Section 1.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; and (ii) the agreements to be entered into between each Project Province and
its respective Participating Power Plants / Grid Company pursuant to Section 1.8 (a) of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and such term includes all annexes, appendices,
and schedules to such agreements."
"(pp)  "Taiyuan City" means the administrative subdivision of such name in Shanxi Province,
or a successor thereto."
"(qq)  "Taiyuan No. I Power Plant" means the power plant of such name in Taiyuan City, or a
successor thereto."
"(rr)  "Training" means the cost of training financed under the Project, incurred on the basis of
the Procurement Plan, attributable to courses, seminars, workshops, and study tours,
along with the cost of domestic and international travel and subsistence for training
participants, services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction
of training materials, and other activities directly related to training preparation and
implementation."
"(ss)  "Wuxiang County" means the administrative subdivision of such name in Shanxi
Province, or a successor thereto."
"(tt)  "Wuxiang Power Plant" means the power plant of such name in Wuxiang County, or a
successor thereto."
"(uu)  "Yushe County" means the administrative subdivision of such name in Shanxi Province,
or a successor thereto."


