Doc
The Worl         MNRu(r.)iAR (fOFPy
FOR  po,r- t No.    8 4§ dl J    Tye   (PCR)
F'OR  FMCAL4    B1P/S. A.    /  X:iiiim  'a T 9U79  ()T1.1j137
RepwttNo. 9854
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2371-JO)
AUGUST 23, 1991
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorization.



THE WORLD BANK
Washtngton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oie aD DMeItCejewva
Opsak. [vakaat rnn
August 23, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIPIuNT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Jordan
Energy Development Project (Loan 2371-JO)
Attached. for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Jordan - Energy Development Project (Loan 2371-JO)" prepared
by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office with Part II
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



FOR OFFICIALI USE ONLY
PROICT COMLUION REPORT
JOIIWU
ENRGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2371-JO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paco go,
PREFACE                                                              1
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                  ii
PART I - BANK EVALtATION
I.    BACKGROUND                                                     1
II.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION                             1
III.  CHANGE IN PROJECT SCOPE                                        3
IV.   PROJECT COSTS                                                  4
V.    PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION                                5
VII.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                         5
VII.  PROJECT RESULTS                                                6
Institutional Performance                                      9
Training                                                       9
Financial Performance                                         10
:nvironmental Aspects                                         13
VIII. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                        13
IX.  BANK PERFORMANCE                                               15
X.   BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                           16
XI.  PROJECT RELATIONSHIP                                           16
XII. CONSULTANT SERVICES                                            17
XIII. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA                                18
XIV. SUMMARY AND LESSONS LEARNED                                    18
PART II - BENEFICIARIES' COMMENTS                                   21
NRA                                                           21
JEPCO                                                         21
IDECO                                                         22
MEMR                                                          22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TAM    OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Pas ENo
PAT II  - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1     RELATED BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDITS                       24
Tabl* 2     PROJECT TIMETABLE                                       25
Table 3     LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS                               26
Table 4     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                  27
Table S     PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN                        29
Table 6     PROJECT RESULTS                                         31
A. DIRECT BENEFITS                                      31
S. ECONOMIC IMPACT                                      32
C. FINANCIAL IMPACT                                     33
D. STUDIES                                              34
Table 7     STATUS OF COVENANTS                                     35
Table 8     USE OF BANK RESOURCES                                   37
A. STAFF INPUTS                                         37
B. MISSIONS                                             38
C. COSTS                                                39



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 2371-JO
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Energy
Development Project in Jordan, for which Loan 2371-JO in the amount of
US$30.0 million was approved on December 20, 1983. The loan was closed on
December 31, 1990, three years behind schedule. It was 98 percent
disbursed and the last disbursement was on April 8, 1991.
The BCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy
Operations Division of the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office (Preface, Evaluation Su-ary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower
(Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in Nay 1991, and is based, inter alia,
on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan, Guarantee, and Project Agreements;
supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrover, and
internal Bank memoranda.



li
PRgiECT COMPLFTION REPORT
NE RGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LN 2371-JO
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introdugtion
1.    In December 1983, the Bank approved Loan 2371-JO, which gave US$30
million to the Government of Jordan for developing a comprehensive and
coordinated action program in the energy sector. The loan was primarily
intended to increase electric power distribution in the country and to further
petroleum exploratLon efforto. The proceeds of the loan were also to be used
for promoting energy conservation, developing alternative energy sources, and
strengthening institutional coordination.  The Government relent US$13.5
million to the Jordan Electric Power Comnany (JEPCO) and US$8.0 million to the
Irbid District Electric Company Limited (IDECO).
Obiectives
2.    The main objectives of the project were to: (i) improve Jordan's overall
energy efficiency; (ii) attract and integrate external assistance for energy
sector development; and (iii) put in place the critical elements (data,
models, training, and studies) of a comprehensive, long-term energy plan.
Implementation Experience
3.    The completion of the Energy Development Project was three years late
because of delays in loan effectiveness; institutional changes; changes in
project scope; the learning period for procurement; and insufficient field
supervision by the Bank in the early stages of project implementation. Loan
effectiveness was delayed due to the ratification procedures for the proposed
Energy Planning Unit; institutional changes were the result of the creation
and establishment of a ministry of energy and mineral resources; project scope
had to be expanded after the successful discovery of gas and energy audits;
and field supervision was hampered by coordination problems from within the
Bank. The installation of equipment, the training staff from participating
agencies, and the utilization of consultancy services were the main components
of project implementation. Actual costs in USs were about 7 percent lower
than estimated at appraisal. This can be attributed to the efficient handling
of finance. by the project beneficiaries. Thus, despite a slow start and late
finish, the project was well executed and successfully completed.
Results
4.    The project achieved its principal objectives by assisting in power
sector development, contrLbuting to petroleum exploration activity, and making
improvements in energy efficiency and planning. In fact, operations hpve gone
well beyond expectations in all five components of the project. Notable
achievements include the following: gas was discovered and commercialized; a
core supply system for rural electrification was created through the



construction of a power distribution network; dampness in buildings was
monitored to reduce energy losses; a workable wind energy module was connected
to th- existing grid; and a Ministry for Energy and a Department for Energy
Planning were established.
5.    With respect to the financial covenants, JEPCO met its self-financing
target (25 percent for 1983 and 35 percent thereafter) throughout project
implementation, except for the last two years, 1989 and 1990; however, it
failed to meet the target level of 1.5 for debt service coverage in 1988,
1989, and 1990. IDECO met its self-financing target (20 percent for 1984 to
1988 and 30 percent thereafter) in all years except 1985, 1989, and 1990; it
only met its debt service coverage target of 1.5 in 1986. The large
devaluation of the JD and the absence of tariff increases have contributed to
the poor performance in the later years.
Sustainability
6.    The sustainability of the project looks promising.  In the case of the
petroleum exploration component, exploration activity has already been
extended to ad3oi!i g areas of Risha.  In the case of power distribution the
component, both JLPC0 and IrECO have developed a networking scheme that would
facilitate expansions in t'-eir respective rural electrification programs. In
the case of the energy conservation component, energy audits in other energy-
intensive sectors, and over a larger cross section of industries, have been
planned. It is expected that legislation will be introduced to make changes
in the design structure of buildings to conserve energy. In the case of the
renewable energy component, improvements have been made in both wind and solar
energy programs. There are plans to attach additional wind turbines to the
existing grid. Solar energy experiments are being carried out by an
international consortium to test the commercialization potential of recent
developments. In the case of the energy planning component, the creation of
an integrated ministry for energy and the creation of separate functional
departments for energy planning, industrial energy, renewable energy, along
with a potential energy conservation department, are proof that the government
is addressing the problems besetting the Jordanian energy sector.
Findinao and Lessons
7.    Project results indicate that the benefits exceeded those projected at
appraisal. The project closing was extended by three years, mainly to
accommodate changes in project scope. Project implementation was
satisfactory, except for delays due to institutional changes and
nonfamiliarity with Bank procurement guidelines and a lack of field
supervision missions in the early stages of project implementation. The
lessons learnt include the need for: (i) a project design to optimize on
involvement several divisions in the Bank; (ii) integrated Bank supervision
missions, particularly, in the early stages of project execution; (iii) a
head start in procurement for inexperienced agencies, along with assistance in
the cross-transfer of procurement knowledge from agencies previously involved
with the Bank; (iv) more flexibility in project scope and in the reallocation
o.- funds; and (v) a follow-up action program to ensure project sustainability



PROJECT 1D2TIT
Proiect Nase      Energy Development Project
Loan No.:         LN 2371-JO
RVP Unit:         Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Country Department III
Industry and Energy Division
Sector:           Energy
Subsector:        Petroleum, Power
I. BACKGROUND
1.01 Jordan's energy resources are limited. Its indigenous resources
encompass large deposits of oil shale, some tar sands, moderate hydropower
potential, and few geothermal sources of low surface temperatures. Its source
of noncommercial and renewable energy is limited to solar and wind energy.
There are no commercially exploitable coal, lignite, uranium, oil, or gas
resources. Prior to the project, matters related to the energy sector lacked
focus and direction as they were dispersed over 10-11 agencies with the
Ministry of Industry and Commerce as the executing agency. Petroleum products
were heavily subsidized, and utilities were selling electricity at tariffs
well below the economic cost of supply. With limited supplies of exploitable
domestic energy resources, a high rate of energy consumption, a heavily
subsidized pricing system, and a weak institutional set-up dogged by a
strained government budget, Jordan was not able to manage its energy sector
economically.
1.02 Recognizing the need for a systematic approach to the development of
energy, the Government of Jordan requested Bank assistance in identifying the
major issues facing the Jordanian energy sector. A report, Jordan: Energy
Se;tor Std  (ESS) summarizing the main issues and recommendations, was
discussed with the Government in October 1982. The report identified four key
areas for the Government to concentrate on in developing a long-term energy
policy. They were (1) domestic energy resources; k') energy conservation; (3)
energy pricing; and (4) energy planning. It is in this setting that the
Energy Development Project was conceived. The Government's objective is to
develop the energy sector to ensure that the future demand for energy is met
at least cost to the economy and that energy is consumed efficiently.
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
2.01 Project Objectives. The project was supported by Loan 2371-JO (US$30
million) made to the Government of Jordan in FY84. The loan was part of a
continuing series of loans--the sixth Bank group lending operation in the
energy sector and the first one to include components other than power. The



2
main objectives of the project were (i) to support key investments for the
improvement of Jordan's overall energy efficiency aind for power subsector
develoyment; (Li) to integrate external assistance Into a consistent plan of
action for the development of the energy sector; and (iLi) to ensure that the
critical elements (data, models, training, pilot projects, prefeasibility and
investment studies) needed for the formulation of a comprehensive long-term
plan were available by 1985.
2.02 Proigat pescription. The following are the project components as
originally appraised:
(A) Petroloum Ex2loration Component. This component would cover the cost of
strengthening the Natural Resources Authority (NRA) technical capabilities of
undertaking the geological work required to plan and implement an exploration
drilling program and for preparing promotional packages to attract
international oil companies to Jordan. It involves four elements: (i) the
purchase of equipment and material; (ii) the provision of consulting
services; (iii) the training of NRA staff ; and (iv) the advanced processing of
seismic data.
[B] Power Distribution Component. This component would assist Jordan Electric
Power Company (JEPCO) and the Irbid District Electricity Company (IDECO) in
implementing their development program for 1983-86. It involved (i) the
expansion and rehabilitation of the urban distribution networks and the
electrification of about 20 villages in JEPCO and about 55 villages in 10EC0
concession areas, through the provision and installation of about 100 kmn of
33-kV and 11-kV underground cables, 445 km of 33-kV and 11-kv overhead lines
and 915 km of low voltage lines; and the provision of 8 power transformers,
with a total capacity of 50 14VA, and distribution transformers with a total
capacity of 74 MVA; (Li) the provision of consulting services to assist JEPCO
in the preparation of detail1ed engineering designs, the preparation of bidding
documents, the evaluation of tenders, and the supervision of construt:tion and
erection; and (iii) the f~rimulation of a strategjy for strengthening IDECO
*       ~~capabilities in financial planning and control.
*       ~~C) Enerov Conservation Component.  This component woulld cover the costs of
*       ~~upgrading the National Planning Council (?KPC) laborLtory and field facilities
to determine the energy efficiency of capital equipment, such as boilers and
heat exchangers; provide consulting service for conducting energy audits in
about 10 selected energy-intensive industries; and provite short-term training
abroad and about 18 months of advisory services to Energy Planning Unit (EPU)
staff, all geared towards improving the c~fficiency of energy usage.
[o) Renewale j~jEner-av Cgmoonent. This component would (i) cover the jpurchase
of solar and wind resource measuring inst'ruments fcr about 10 locations iai Cho
country; 8 solar water-heating demonstraition systems; solar collectors and
experimental set-ups to test solar water heating systems; energy-conserving
materials (insulation, reflective cioating, etc.); and the instrumentation
required tc. test 4 solar passive homes and 3 commercial-size greenhouses; (Li)
provide consuldting services to undertake stud.1es (potential assessment study,
solar water heating study, solar pond study and solar passive system study);
and provide de2sign, installation, data analysis and supervision support on



3
pilot and demonstration scheme (solar greenhouse-, solar passive houses and
solar water heating test facility)l and (iii) provide training for the staff
from the Royal Scientific Society (RSS) for about 4-12 weeks through workshops
and visits to commercial establishments in an industrialized country. The
training would emphasize the commercialization of renewable technologieo.
(3)  Eneray Plannina Component. This component would help to strengthen the
Government's energy planning activities by facilitating the formulation of
comprehensive energy policies and by coordinating the implementation of plans
geared towards the overall development of the energy sector. It would provide
for (i) the purchase of software and hardware for the energy planning unit at
the NPC; (ii) consulting services for detailed studies in energy planning,
demand management, pricing, etc., and 2 advisors to assist EPU for a period of
24 monthsl (iii) training in Jordan and abroad for periods ranging from
between 2 and 4 months in project appraisal and preparation, investment
planning, project implementation, energy pricing, energy conservation, demand
management and macroeconomic policy formulation.
III. CHANGE IN PROJECT SCOPE
3.01 During the project execution the following main modifications were made:
(Al Petroleum Exoloratlon Comnqnent. Training was financed from other
external aources including United States Agency for International Development
(USAID), the European Economic Community (EEC), Canada, and international oil
companies under production-sharing agreements. As a result of the discovery of
gas in Risha, exploration activity was extended to adjoining areas. The
services of Schlumberger were requisitioned to undertake the additional
seismic processing, reprocessing, and logging of wells. Financing was made
available in part thronugh surplus funds from the training component and in
part by the originaliy unallocated funds.
(8] Power Distribution Component. There was no major change in the scope for
this component. Howaver, as the original scope was broadly defined, both
JEPCO and IDECO made minor modifications to maximize benefits for a greater
number of customers. Also, both JEPCO and IDECO had local staff work along
with external consultants, thereby reducing the cost of consulting services.
[C) Enernv Conservation Comoonent. There was an expansion in scope in this
component due to the results obtained from the successful completion of energy
audits among selected, large-scale industries. In addition, the Ministry of
Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR) carried out energy audits among small and
medium industries. By mobilizing additional cofinancing from Germany, France
and EEC, MEOR also undertook energy conservation studies in the transportation
and household sectors. It was determined that dampness in buildings played a
role in energy usage. An additional study was, therefore, commissioned to
determine the energy savings that could be obtained from controllxng dampness.
CDI Renewable Energay Comoonent. There were modifications in the purchase of
equipment, in part due to the availability of alternative financing and in
part due to a change in requirements. Further, the creation of the Renewable
Energy Department under MEMR facilitated the implementation of specific solar



4
and wind pilot project. ln parallel with ongoing solar energy actlvltles
carried out by Ro.
131 *mmg  PI& ning 1an=net.  The newly created NMMA took over the role
originally destLned for ZPU. However, under the new MLnistry, industrial
energy, energy planning, and renewable energy departments were formed.
Alternative finaneing arrangements were mad- for the purchase of equipmnnt
orlginally p;annod for EPU.
IV. 21P'JGmZT
4.01 The actual local cost component was about 10 percent lower and the
forelgn cosat component was about ' percent lower, resulting ln a total project
coat of about 7.5 percent loe than the appraisal *etimate. The reasons for
thLo are explained below.
(A) Patroleum Itxlgraiton Comoonent. Tho original allocation was about 9
percent of the base project cost. Local costs were 24 percent lower, but
there was an increass of about 27 percent in the foreign cost component,
resultlng in an overall excess of about 19 percent of the original estimato.
The inerease in foreign costs can bo attributed to the expanded project scope
.o flnance the additional seismLe processing and reprocessing and the logging
of wells ln Rliha and adjoinlng area.
(83 Power DistrLbutLon  oMonent. The original allocation was about 78
percent of the base project cost, wlth JEPCo accounting for about 41 percent
and IDECO accountLng for 37 percent. Local costs for JEPCO were about 51
percent lower while forelgn costs were about 16 percent lower, resulting in an
overall reductlon of about 29 percent in the JEPCO component. The maln
reasons for lower expendltures by JEPCO were the effLeL-nt handling of
resources and the focus placed on the needs of customers rather than on
numbers (km of cable, number of transformers, etc.). Local costs for IDECO
were about 18 percent higher and foroLgn costs were marginally hlgher, at
about 3 percent, resultlng in an overall excess of about 8 percent of the base
project cost; this increase was mainly due to the cost of catering to the
iLolated rural dlstribution system in the IDECO concession area. IDECO also
concentrated on customers needs rather than on specLfic numbers (km of cable,
number of transformers, etc.) ln Lts project executlon. Further, both JEPOO
and IDTCO used in-house consultants to replace the servLces of external
consultants, thereby affecting local costs.
(CI Enorov Conservation Comuonent DI geonewablo Enerav Comoonent and
(23 Eneroa PlannLag CoMooa*n. The original allocation for these three
components was about 12.5 percent of the base 'roject cost. Although overall
costs remaLned vlrtually unchanged, apportLoned local costs increased by about
84 percent, and foreign costs decreased by about 31 percent. The reason for
the compennating Lncrease and decrease ln local and forelgn costs can be
attributed to the efflclent handling of resources and the fact that forelgn
consultant servLesz, as provided for in the appraisal estlmate, were not fully
utllized. MEM staff who were tralned by consultants were able to effectlvely
take over from these consultants.



B
V. PROJET DESI   N  ORGANIZATION
5.01 The project was designed with the recommndations of the Energy Sector
Study in mind. There was an urgent noed for Jordan to develop its domestic
energy rsources, seek alternative energy sources, and improve the efficiency
of its energy usage by introducing measures for planning, consirvation and
price monitoring.
5.02   The scope and scal* of the project were chosen to suit the preliminary
stage of energy sector development in Jordan.  There somed to be a general
understanding of the project design and organization by all conceorned parties,
i.e., the Bank, the Government of Jord.n, and participating agencies--NRh,
JEPCO and IDCO. The project was well prepared, and its timing was
appropriate inr view of Jordan's long-term enorgy noods. The roles and
responsibilities of the institutions and agencies handling project
implementation were clearly defined and understood.
5.03 The petroleum exploration component was well timed, based upon NRA
perseverance with the seismic data analysis and exploration activities. The
power distrLbution component could be viewed as a continuation of two recently
concluded loanes LN 1986-JO and LN 2162-JO, which were aimed at helping Jordan
meet future power demands at least cost to the economy. The renewable energy
component was necessriy to strengthen Jordan's supply resources et a time when
imports were rising a.. %adily. The onergy conservation component was geared
towards identifying measures to improve the efficiency of energy usage. The
energy planning component was aimed at building an institutional support
system for the several agencies in the energy sector atrd at providing a focus
and direction for the future development of the energy sector.
5.04 Dividing the project into five independent components enabled specific
attention to be given to those project components that encountered
difficulties. The project design and organization facilitated better
accountability by the implementing agencies. The responsible handling of
financial resources by the implmenting agencies, and the smooth transition
from external consultants to in-house consultants, bears testimony to the
excellent project design and organization.
VI. R.2QK    INMZU=i&ZZ
6.01 There was a delay of about seven months in declaring the loan
effectiveness stage, attributed mainly to delays in the ratification procedure
of the proposed EPU, which was a condition for effectiveness. However, during
the actual implementation, an integrated Minlstry of Enorgy and Mineral
Resources (HM2R) was established and an Energy Planning Department was formed
under EMM. There were three extensions of the loan closing date, each time
of one year.
6.02   These extensions were to accommodate changes in project scope.  More
specifically, additional components were introduced as a result of the
availability of surplus fundsl prominent changes included the addLtLonal
exploratlon activity after the Risha gas discovery and the study of dampness



6
control in buildLngs. The extensions of the loan closing date may also be
attributed to institutional changes, tho learnLng period for procurement, and
Lnsufficient Bank field supervision in the early stages of project
implementation. In addition, minor difflculties encountered in completing the
J3PCO rural electrification scheme, due to problems assoclated with right-of-
way, and the completion of the IDECO urban distributlon component had a
bearing on the extensions loan closing dates.
6.03 The implementing agencies, in partlcular IDECO, were not famillar with
the Bank's procurement guidelines, this being the firat Bank loan for IDBCO.
HavLng encountered procurement problems in the preparation of bid packages
durlng the project implementation of LN 1986 -JO and LN 2162 - JO, JEPCO fared
a little better than IDECO in this project.
6.04 Supervlison difficulties were encountered by the Bank because of the
involvement of different departments in the project. The Oil and Gas
Department supervised the petroleum exploration component; the Power and
Energy Department supervised the power distribution component; and other
departments, including the Industrial Projects Department and Country
Department, jointly supervised the remaining three project components--energy
conservation, renewable energy, and energy planning. As a result no
coordinated supervision mission was undertaken by the Bank. However,
following the Bank reorganization in 1987, the problem was resolved when all
energy operations were integrated within the regional division. The lack of
Bank supervision misslons affected the early stages of project implementation.
6.05 The original decision to form EPU was the factor 1..iat affected project
implementation the most.  The proposed EPU was viewed as the agency for
facilitating the coordination of all planning activities for the energy sector
and, more importantly, as a link to all the participating agencies in this
project. The initial delays in project implementation were caused by inaction
on the part of the Government in forming EPU and in appointing a its head.
After the establishment of a new, integrated ministry for energy and mineral
resources, the idea of EPU was replaced with forming a Energy Planning
Department. Under MEMR and Energy Planning Department, the planning and
coordination improved considerably, which facilitated the additional work
carried out within the project.
VII. PROJECT RESULTS
7.01 The project exceeded expectations of its specific objectives. The
project obtained investments for improving Jordan's overall energy efficiency
and power sector development; integrated external assistance to formulate a
consistent plan for energy development; and developed a data/resource bank
that included data, models, trained staff, pilot projects and prefeasibllity
and investment studies for the formulation of a comprehensive, long-term
energy plan.
Petroleum Exgloration ComRonent
7.02 In total, three foreign oil companies conducted Petroleum exploration
under production-sharing agreements and spent US$40 miilion; three other



7
companies entered into aid/assistance programs totalling USS45 million. The
enhanceo  nt of NRA technical capabilities and, with the assistance of
consultancy services, the exploration efforts of NRA resulted in the first gas
discovery in the Risha field. Currently, five wells are in productions they
are estimated to reach a level of 40 million cubic feet by the end of 1991.
Power Distribution Component
7.03 The JEPCO electrification program extended to 84 villages and 77 suburbs
in all. Its strengthening of the urban distribution network accounted for
about 790 km of underground cables, 640 km of HV overhead lines, 15,900 km of
LV lines and the installation of 1,084 transformers with a total capacity of
775 MVA. JEPCO revenues, as a result of the expansion and rehabilitation
program, accounted for about 10 JD/month in revenue when compared to a capital
cost per consumer of about 1,700 JD for rural distribution. As a result of
the very poor returns involved in a project of this nature, JEPCO has filed a
petition with the Government to pay only the cost of operations rather than
total costs, which include capital costs.
7.04 IDECO completed its electrification of 55 villages, resulting in an
additional 20 percent expansion in the rural electrification program. Its
role in strengthening the urban distribution network resulted in about 6,000
new consumers and benefited about 11,000 consumers in all, with 330 km of NV
lines, 1,600 km of LV lines, 130 km of LV cables, 5,500 poles in the LV
network and about 300 substations. The IDECO expansion and rehabilitation
program resulted in a reduction of outages per consumer per annum from 6.5 to
5.8 and a reduction in transmission line losses from about 16 percent to 12
percent.
7.05 Financial consultancy services were used to unify accounting practices
at JEPGO. The recommendations from this component, like the creation of
responsibility and accounting centers, have been implemented fully and
practices are now on a par with those in industrialized countries. Both JEPCO
and IDECO used the services of external consultants for compiling system
specifications and in preparing tender packages. However, once the in-house
staff were trained, a separate tender department was created, and the external
consulting services were terminated.
Eneray Conservation Comnonent
7.06 Energy audits were carried out among selected large industries. The
recommendations of the study revealed a potential saving of about 100,000-
130,000 tons of fuel oil per year. About 90 percent of these recommendations
have been implemented. The local staff benefited from these audits and were
trained to carry them out by themselves. Therefore, it was decided to expand
the audits among small- and medium-scale industries; however, this was not
flnanced by loan proceeds from the Bank.
7.07 A separate energy audit program was carried out in the transportation
sector. Results indicate a 10-15 percent energy saving. Policies for
taxation, customizing, licensing, speed limits and traffic lights were
implemented. Further, a feasibility study led to the creation of a Driver



8
Training Center, whlch is now in operation under the Vocational Training
Cooperation in Amman.
7.08  A thLrd energy audit program was conducted among households.  The
rosults from thli audit led to the creatlon of nnergy Advisory Centers to
educate the population in energy saving measures. Currently, three such
centers are in operation in Amman, Zarqa and Irbid. Thle audit was extended
to selected large comnercial centers, including hotels, hospitals, and large
commercial complexes on an exploratory basis. During the household audit
program, it war identified that dampn-ss contributed in large measure to the
energy lossee from buildings. This led to a study to determine the impact of
dampness control on energy savings. It was found that there exists a
potential saving of US$l million/annum for a S percent coverage, with a
maximum possible coverage of 30 percent in existing buildings and an
equivalent amount from new buildings, including maintenance.
Renewable Engroa Component
7.09 A wind energy prototype was successfully coumercialized resulting in 4
machines (at 80 kw) being connected to the existing grid to supply wind-
generated electricity. This module has produced about 2 GWh since it was
first connected in May 1988. Its current capacity is about 650,000 kWhr/year
wlth a power factor in the range of 0.23.
7.10 A solar energy pilot program has resulted in the formation of an
international consortium working towards harnessing energy from the sun.
Jordan has been chosen as the best site for commercialisation of a recently
developed technology involving customized concentrators and steam generators
to harness solar energy. A 30 MW solar power generating capacity is being
installed by a consortium (PHOEBUS) of foreign investors. The construction
work is expected to be completed by 1993.
Energv Plannina Comnonent
7.11  Separate departments were created under the newly integrated MEMR for
energy planning, industrial energy, renewable energy, and energy conservation.
Training was provided for about 16 man-months short-term and 42 man-months,
long-term, mainly in the area of microcomputers. Two models were built for
energy demand forecasting: one a simple energy economic input/output model and
the other a complex macroeconomic model--MELODIE. About 75 percent of the
Energy Department staff have hands-on experience in using the simple model;
the working of the complex model is still in its infancy. Three staff members
from the Energy Department were sent to Vienna for training on the Energy and
Power Evaluation Package.
7.12  A workable data base was assembled to pool together information and data
on reserves, sources, consumption and the production of energy, including
economic data on demography and technical data on types of generators. This
data base is fairly complete at the national level, less complete at the
regional level and least complete at the global level.



9
7.13 An energy planning and pricing study was carried out to introduce
restructuring and pricing reforms. For convenience, the recommendatLons of
thLe study were modified to suit local needs. The recommendations of the load
management study, which was carried out to reduce system peak loads and to
monitor the wattage for new production facilities, is currently under review.
Further, under the load management study, water loads, which account for about
15 percent of the electricity load, have been studied in detail to reduce peak
load operations. It is expected that the peak load could be reduced by about
20-30 MW, which is approximately a 5-6 percent reduction potential of the
system peak load.
Institutional Performance
7.14 JEPCO was the only agency with prior Bank experience. It performed well
above expectation, both in terms of execution and the completion of its
project component. Further, there is clear evidence that JEPCO made efifcient
use of its resources. Lower expenditures and the reduced tenure of outside
assistance are indicators of experience in dealing with the Bank. Also,
compared to its previous loan, JEPCO did not suffer much from procurement or
disbursement delays. This was the first experience with the Bank for NRA and
IDECO. Both agencies performed satisfactorily, taking into consideration
their achievements vis-a-vis problems faced. While NRA had difficulties in
managing individual consultants, IDECO had initial problems in procurement.
7.15 The establishment of MEMR, the creation of Industrial Energy and Energy
Planning Departments and the creation of functional departments for
conservation and renewable energy have set the basic framework for carrying
out activities in the energy sector. The progress made by the Energy Planning
Department in executing this project in an efficient manner is proof of
increased experience. The frequent interaction with other international
agencies in seeking alternative sources of financing will open up avenues for
future projects. The development of infrastructure and human resources as a
result of project execution has laid the foundation for the development of
future programs in the energy sector.
Training
7.16 The project has contributed, in a large way, to the human resource
development of the energy sector through training activities and consultant
services. Four of the five components included a subcomponent for training
activities, and all five components of the project included a subcomponent for
consultant services. In addition, MEMR and NRA managed to secure alternative
financing sources in the form of grants to facilitate the training of their
staff both on the job and outside of Jordan. NRA also benefitted from the
exploration activities of foreign oil companies. Training in the area of
petroleum exploration will definitely prove to be a worthy investment in the
long run, based on Jordan's future exploration programs. Other training
activities included short-term intensive training, mostly in industrialized
countries, in specialized areas related to energy efficiency as well as in
general areas of project planning and management. Consultancy services proved
to be a major factor in the speedy execution of the project. Most of the
consulting services in the form of specialized studies, which were prepared by



10
foreign consultants assisted by counterpart Jordanian teams. The
recommendations and results of these studies have already been implemented in
some cases and are still to be implemented in others, by the respective
participating agencies.
Flnancial Performance
7.17 No financial targets were set for NRA as it is a government agency that
is funded wholly from the central government budget on a cash basis. All
foreign currency costs relating to the project were financed under Loan 2371-
JO, as planned. This was the first financing facility extended to NRA. Local
costs were funded from government allocations to NRA. The required audited
project cost statements were regularly submitted by NRA.
JEPCO
7.18 The financial targets under this loan required JEPCO to achieve (a)
self-financing levels of 25 percent in 1983 and 35 percent in 1984 and
thereafter; and (b) a debt-service coverage of at least 1.5 (Part I1I, Table 6
C). The same targets were set under the first loan (LN 1986-JO) in which
JEPCO participated. The actual financial performance resulted in JEPCO
achieving self-financing levels of 27 percent in 1983, 52 percent in 1984 and
46 percent in 1985. The strong JEPCO performance in 1984 and 1985 was
primarily due to delays in the impleientation of its construction program and
lower than anticipated capital costs. Under a subsequent loan (LN 2710-JO),
financial targets for 1986 and the years following were revised downwards to
achieve self-financing levels of 25 percent in 1986 and 1987; 30 percent in
1988; and 35 percent in 1989 and thereafter. Satisfactory self-financing
levels of 37 percent, 33 percent, and 34 percent were achieved by JEPCO in
1986, 1987, and 1988, respectively. JEPCO met its debt-service target of 1.5
from 1983 to 1987; in 1988 it dropped just below target to 1.41.
7.19 Prior to the substantial devaluation of the JO starting in October 1988,
JEPCO was financially viable and met its financial indicators with regard to
self- finapcing and its debt-service ratio. However, as a result of the
adverse financial impact of the 1988/89 JD devaluation and the absence of any
increases in tariffs until October 1990, JEPCO has been unable to meet its
debt- service payments and finance its operations. Following the Government's
decision to pass on to consumers some of the benefits of declining oil prices,
marginal tariff reductions to certain consumer categories were introduced in
November 1988 in parallel with reductions in bulk energy purchase costs to
JEPCO. The full impact of these measures was felt when the JEPCO average
tariff declined from 34.0 fils/kWh in 1988 to 32.7 fils/kWh (-3.8%) in 1989
and purchased energy costs decreased by 3.6 percent, resulting in a net
operating income loss of approximately JD 0.5 million (22 percent of 1988
operating income). Average tariffs in 1990 remained unchanged despite
increases in tariffs in October 1990 of about 4 percent on average. The
effective decline in average tariffs was due to a faster growth of consumption
in low tariff categories.  Exchange losses charged against income escalated
from JD 0.6 million in 1988 to JD 1.3 million in 1989 and JD 2.1 million in



11
1990. The company sustained its first loss in 1989, amounting to JD 1.4
million and increasing to JD 2.2 million in 1990. The disappointing self-
financing levols for the last two years were 7 percent in 1989 and -4 percent
in 1990. The debt service ratio was below target at 1.0 and 0.81 for 1989 and
1990, respectively.
7.20 The financial position of JEPCO as of December 31, 1990 was unhealthy.
The severe cash squeeze is evident from specific current debt obligations of
JD 13.2 million, comprising an overdraft of JD 2.9 million, an unpaid debt
service of JD 6.0 million, and short-term loans of JD 4.3 million. The latest
tariff increases, which were implemented in October 1990, are expected to
increase JEPCO annual revenues by JD 1.9 million (+4 percent) approximately.
In addition, the Government has recently assisted JEPCO by reducing the cost
of energy purchased by 1 fil/kWhr (or 4.6 percent), reducing JEPCO energy
costs by about JD 1.4 million per year. These two measures will improve the
financial performance of JEPCO, although not enough to achieve the debt
service target of 1.5.
7.21 Under this loan, JEPCO was r2quired to ensure that all government
departments and agencies settled their electricity bills within 6 weeks or 42
days of their issuance (Part III, Table 6 C). As a result of the cash flow
problems, JEPCO has recently adopted a stringent credit control policy and has
successfully achieved an average collection period of 40 days for the private
sector and private consumers. The company is, however, facing collection
difficulties with government departments and agencies, in particular with the
Water Authority and the Telecommunications Corporation.   The average
collection period for all consumers ranged from 48 days in 1986 to 71 days in
1990.
7.22 During the project implementation period, JEPCO was required to issue
and sell new shares to the extent of any shortages in financing capital
expenditures. Clearly, the situation in 1989 and 1990 necessitated such
action. However, in view of the company's poor financial performance, the
general economic situation in the country during this period, and the recent
Gulf crisis, JEPCO is not attracting investors.
7.23 The company's latest audited financial statements for 1990 were
reviewed. Long-term debt is reflected at historical rates of exchange on the
balance sheets and not at the prevailing rates. The exchange impact,
amounting to JD 14.5 million, is quantified in the notes to the financial
statements and is referred to in the auditor's report. The current portion of
long-term debt (JD 4.3 million) is not reflected under current liabilities.
IDEC
7.24 Loan 2371-Jo was the first loan under which IDECO participated as a
beneficiary. The financial targets set in this loan required IDECO to achieve
(a) a self-financing level of 20 percent for each of the fiscal years 1984
through 1988 and 30 percent for each of the fiscal years thereafter; and (b) a
debt-service coverage of at least 1.5 (Part III, Table 6 C). The actual self-
financing levels achieved were more than satisfactory: 52 percent in 1984, 48
percent in 1986, 43 percent in 1987 and 32 percent in 1988. However, in 1985,



12
the self-financing level was 2 percent. The poor performance in 1985 was due
to an increase in purchased energy cost of 24 percent (reflecting the economic
cost of supply) compared to an increase of 9.2 percent in the average tariff
(following the Government's decision to unify the tariff structure of the
three power utilities and after taking into account the JD 2.4 million
received from J3A), resulting in lower internal cash generation against
increasing debt-service and construction expenditures. IDECO financial
performance has declined considerably during the last two years. The self-
financing level in 1989 was 17 percent. In 1990, a self-financing level of 38
percent was achieved, principally due to a large increase in cash consumer
contributions, without which the result would have been -16 percent. Except
for 1986, IDIOO has not met its debt service target throughout the project
implementation periodt the highest coverage achieved was in 1986 (1.63) and
the lowest in 1990 (0.60).
7.25 IDZCO has received 'temporary' compensation from the Government (paid by
JEA) since 1985, ranging from JD 2.4 million to JD 2 per year. Despite this
assistance, and despite efficiency improvements through reductions in power
losses and administrative costs, the company has registered net losses, which
have increased from JD 0.2 million in 1988 to JD 0.9 million in 1990. IDECO
has also witnessed a considerable financial decline due to the combined
effects of the large devaluation of the JD and the decreases in average
tariffs every year since 1986. Although tariffs were increased ir October
1990, the average tariff in 1990, compared with 1989, remained virtually
unchanged. This was due to the fact that electricity sales to the Water
Authority grew at a faster rate than eales to other consumers and that the
tariff for water pumping is lower than the average tariff. In terms of kWhr
of electricity sold, government compensation to IDECO has declined by
approximately 50 percent in the last six years.
7.26 The financial position of IDECO is precarious. The tight liquidity
aLtuation of December 31, 1990 is reflected in the specific current debt
obligations of JD 5.2 million, comprising a bank overdraft of JD 1.0 million,
an unpaid debt service of JD 3.0 million, and short-term loans of JD 1.2
million. IDECO financial performance wilt improve in 1991, following the
October 1990 tariff increases (average 13 percent) and the recent reductions
in purchased energy costs of 1 fil/kWhr (or 4.6 percent). On an annual basis,
cash generation will increase by approximately JD 1.7 million; however, this
is not enough for IDECO to reach the debt service target of 1.5.
7.27 The project agreement also requires IDECO to take all necessary measures
to ensure that the accounts receivable do not exceed 6 weeks (or 42 days) of
sales (Part 1II, Table 6 C). IDECO successfully reduced its receivables
expressed in terms of annual sales from 72 days in 1984 to 48 days in 1988.
In 1989 the trend was reversed, and the average collection period increased to
72 days in that year and to 117 days in 1990. The large increases in 1989 and
1990 were primarily due to the Water Authority whose receivables represented
240 days of sales. The collection period for all other consumers was 81 days.
The project agreement also required IDECO to increase the security deposit
from its consumers to two months of electricity consumption. This requirement
has been complied with.



13
Egonomic-Rate of Return
7.28 The economic rate of return in applicable only for the power
distribution component. At appraisal, the ERR for the entire power subsector
was computed to be 13 percent; for JEPCO, 16 percent; and for IDECO, 8 percent
(Part I1I, Table 6-B). The changes in capital costs (lower for JEPCO and
higher for IDECO) and changes in revenuee (IDECO revenue was brought in-line
with that of JEPCO) have caused variations in the ERR at full development.
For the power subsector ag a whole, the ERR was about 11 percent; for JEPCO,
about 20 percent; and for IDECO, about 8 percent.
Environmental As2ects
7.29 The project was implemented according to Bank guidelines for the
protection of the phyaical environment. There were no serious concerns with
regard to environmental regulations other than the generation of land/soil
disturbances due to exploration activity and the impact on aesthetics due to
laying of overhead transmission lines or the setting up of wind turbines and
solar collectors.
VIII. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITX
8.01 There are strong prospects for the project to maintain a net benefit
throughout its economic life, with positive physical, technological and social
effects.  Even after examining the components of the project on an individual
basis, it could be said that each of the components has had a positive impact.
Petroleum Explor4tion Comoonent
8.02 With respect to the petroleum exploration component, the gas discovery
at Risha has proved to be a significant development. There is strong evidence
that exploration activity will continue in Risha and the adjoining area. It
is also expected that exploration will be expanded to other areas. Further,
talks are under way concerning the creation of a joint venture exploration
company with Yemen, to consolidate the gains of this project. The Government
is making parallel efforts to attract private oil companies and accelerate
exploration activities.
Power Distribution Component
8.03 With respect to the power distribution component, there is very little
prospect of JEPCO continuing further with the electrification of villages.
JEPCO in of the view that the Government of Jordan should finance such
projects and that JEPCO will bear only the operating costs. Discussions are
underway to determine the viability of such an operation. IDECO has
established a radial feeder syetem whereby it has easier access to remote
villages and, hence, better expansion possibilities. IDECO is of the belief
that this system will encourage more customers to connect to the grid. As a
result, the project benefits would be sustained due to the avoided costs of
alternative fuels,e. i.e., diesel, petrol and kerosene.



14
Enora Conservation Component
8.04 The energy audits and the control of d-npness in building. have provided
substantial monetary gains as well as energy itilization. There is reason to
believe that these gains will be sustained in future years. However, to
attain the potential saving., it is necessary that immediate attention be
give: to introducing legislation and offering public incentive schemes.
Relevant authorities should make energy conservation attractive to the public
by introducing incentive schemes for making changes in old buildings.
Renewable Enerav Comoonent
8.05 The harnessing of wind energy is important for the future of the
renewable energy subsector in Jordan. It is hoped that an additional two
turbines can be added to the existing four by the end of 1991. It has been
estimated that additions of up to 50MW are possible without the reinforcement
of the existing grid. Although this option looks promising, the initial
expenditures involved and the cost of generation are limiting factors for full
exploitation. The choice of Jordan as a regional center for solar energy and
the creation of an international consortium to commercialize a newly found
technology to harness solar energy bear sufficient proof of project
sustainability.
Enercr Planning Component
8.06 The gains from establishing an energy ministry and an energy planning
department have to be consolidated. The success of gas commercialization, the
availability of a core supply system for electricity, the successful
commercialization of renewable energy sources, and the potential savings from
conservation and utilization measures are indications that delineation of the
tasks and responsibilities is a necessary ingredient of energy planning.
Further, the joint Bank-MEMR effort in updating the Energy Sector Study,
followed by the Government's interest in the Energy Sector Adjustment Program
(ESAP), provide sufficient proof of project sustainability.
8.07 Recommendations have been provided for functional departments under the
institutional restructuring of MEMR by the Bank's project completion mission.
After a series of individual consultations, followed by a consolidated
discussion group comprising department heads and Bank's project completion
mission, it was determined that energy conservation, which is spread over the
Energy Planning, Renewable Energy, and Industrial Energy Departments, has to
be integrated into one unit. There is reason to believe that energy
conservation should be under a separate department based on the potential
savings that have been identified (under this project) and its utility in the
agriculture, industry, and transportation sectors, as well as in households
and commercial establishments. However, taking into consideration the
difficulties involved, it was decided for the time being, that energy
conservation will be the responsibility of the Renewable Energy Department.
It is hoped that eventually a separate energy conservation department will be
established.



15
Proiect XmRact
8.08 Phvgical. The project's impact on the physical environment consisted of
the setting up of the newly created ministry, the acquisition and installation
of equipment and instruments, and the advancements, in urban distribution and
rural electrification. The establishment of MEMR and the setting up of
functional departments for energy planning, conservation and renewable energy
have largely mitigated coordination problems. The acquisition of equipment
and instruments has improved productivity and access to data/information in
the respective implementing agencies. The strengthening of the urban
distribution network and the expansion of the rural electrification network
have contributed to the reliability of power and the effectiveness of power-
supplying authorities in Jordan.
8.09 Technolocy. The project's impact on the technological environment has
been demonstrated in the areas of petroleum exploration, seismic data
processing and the harnessing of wind energy. The use of consultant services
from the advanced industrialized countries for these three activities has
enhanced the technology used for project implementation. State-of-the art
technology was used for petroleum exploration and for the solar energy and
wind energy projects.
8.10 Social. The project's impact on the social environment consists of
improvements in the urban distribution network and in the rural
electrification of villages. The strengthening of the urban distribution
network improves the efficiency of supply and reduces transmission line
losses. The rural electrification program helps keep villagers from migrating
to urban areas.
8.11 National and Local. The project's impact at the national level has been
in the establishment of a separate ministry for energy. This project has
assisted in achieving a national awareness that the energy sector needs to
grow and develop. At the local institutional level, JEPCO, IDECO, RSS, NPC,
etc., have all benefitted by way of overall development--improvements in
infrastructure and facilities, human resources, and better trained staff.
IX. BANK PERFORMANCE
9.01 The Bank's overall performance in this project was satisfactory.
The Bank initially provided an Energy Sector Study, which led to the
preparation and appraisal of the project. An updated study was conducted
towards the end of the project. The Bank took an active interest and played a
key role in the implementation of the project. Any weakness on the Bankls
side came from delays in procurement correspondence and insufficient field
supervision missions, with frequent changes in mislion members in the early
stages of project implementation.



16
9.02 The Bank'o performance in the identification and preparation stage of
the project cycle was good. The bulk of the background work was completed
early (Energy Sector Study), leading to a fairly *acy identification and
preparation of the project. However, the Bank's performance during early
project implementation was mixed. Until the reorganization of the Bank in
1987, the field supervision missions were insufficient. The missions were
difficult to plan, and coordination became a problem; the project had many
components, and the staff involved in the project belonged to different
divisions/departments. The petroleum exploration component was being
supervised by the oil and gas department; the power distribution component was
being supervised by the power and energy development department; the remaining
three components--energy conservation, renewable energy and energy planning -
- were being jointly supervised by the industrial projects division, country
department, etc., with no lead department for supervision. After the reor-
ganization, the industry and energy division supervised the project as a
whole. The mission frequency improved, resulting in significant improvements
in project progress.
X. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
10.01   The Borrower's overall performance on this project has been satisfac-
tory. The strength of the Borrower's performance was in identifying the needs
and priorities of the sector developments, which led to an expansion in the
scope of certain components under this project. The weaknesses of the
Borrower were in trying to overachieve and in wanting to do too much within
limited cost, time and resource constraints.
10.02   The Borrower's performance during project preparation was satisfac-
tory. The Borrower aesisted in the preparation of the project by providing
all the necessary inputo and documentation. The Borrower's performance prior
to implementation was mixed as loan effectiveness had to be delayed three
times to accommodate ratification procedures. JEPCO has improved its handling
of procurement affairs since its last venture. However, IDECO, which was
borrowing from the Bank for the first time, found it difficult to get familia-
rized with the Bank's rules and guidelines in procurement.
10.03   The Borrower's performance during project implementation was more than
satisfactory. The participating agencies showed a keenness in the execution
of the project and completed tasks in advance of the time limit and, in some
instances, saved on estimated costs. There was an improvement in the project
management skills of the participating agencies. Part of the credit should go
to the new energy ministry and the energy planning department. However, the
overall credit should go to all the participating agencies that performed
above satisfactory level. Project implementation was wall managed by staff
and consultants. Records indicate that the training activities and the
consultant services were all performed on time, within the budgeted amount.



17
XI. PB°zCT RELArONSHrP
11.01       The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower grew tr-emn-
dously during the course of project execution. In an *ight-year period (1983-
1990), Bank-Borrower involvoment grew from an energy sector study to the
proposed energy sector adjustment loan, which is an indication that there was
excellent rapport, good communication/correspondence, and the production of
useful results. The cooperation between the Borrower, its cofinanc-re,
contractors, and consultants was useful in project implementation.
XII. CONSULTANT SERVICES
12.01 Petroleum Exploration Com2onent.
NRA used the services of Petro-Canada International (PCIAC) for the
preparation of promotional packages to attract international oil companies to
Jordan to carry out exploration activities. Two seminars in Houston, Texas
and Calgary, Alberta were hosted by NRA as follow-up exercises to the promo-
tional package distribution. Core Lab, a US consulting firm, was used in the
preparation of the Azraq Basin Study. NRA benefited from its participation
-with the consultants both on-the-job in Jordan and at the firm's headquarters.
NRA also used the services of an individual financial management consultant
who successfully set up the NRA financial system. In addition, NRA utilized
the services of several individual consultants but results were les than
satisfactory.
12.02 Power Distribution Component.
JEPCO and IDECO used the services of UK consultants, Kennedy & Donkin
and Price, Cardew, and Rider (now Ewbank Preece Ltd.), respectively, for the
preparation of detailed engineering designs and for specifications for the
expansion and rehabilitation of the urban distribution network and the rural
electrification program. The services of MRI (USA) were used for financial
planning and control. Both JEPCO and IDECO made limited use of these consult-
ing services. The in-house staff who were trained by the external consultants
to take over the required tasks and responsibilities performed satisfactorily.
12.03 Enerov Conservation Comoonent.
The services of Bechtel (UK) were used to carry out the energy audits in
large-scale industries. The scheme was a big success based on the already
established savings the potential savings, and the expansion of the program to
include medium- and small-scale industries that was undertaken by MEMR staff.
Energy audits in the transportation sector were carried out by AFME of France.
The recommendations included several energy-saving measures and were imple-
mented immediately. The dampness control study, which was part of the
expansion in project scope, was successfully completed by COWr Consult
(Denmark).  An action plan has been prepared to implement these recommenda-
tions.



12.04 Renewabl- Eneray Comnonent.
The Danish consultants, COWS Consult, assisted in the successful
implementation of the 4 X 80 kW wind energy project.
12.05 Eneray Plannina Com29nent.
USAID and UNDP funded consultancy services for the load management,
pricing, refinery optimization and demand management studies--all of which are
useful inputs for future activities in the energy sector. A list of studies
completod im provided in Table 6 D, Part III of the PCR.
XIII. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
13.01 Most of the data required for the preparation of the PCR was available
at the Bank. However, certain streamlining procedures may be required for the
development of project data bases.
13.02 Quarterly reports submitted by the participating agencies need to
reflect in greater detail the actual progress of the project. The participat-
ing agencies need to make a greater effort in submitting, on time, audited
financial statements to the Bank.
13.03 The Bank needs to strengthen its procurement data base. A separate
filing and monitoring system for procurement, along with a periodic procure-
ment progress report, may remove some of the impediments to procurement
monitoring and project execution.
XIV. SUMMARY AND LESSON LEARNED
14.01 The project achieved its principal objectives, despite the extensions
in closing dates. There was an expansion in project scope after the gas
discovery and the success of the industrial energy audits. Several institu-
tional changes, including the creation of a ministry for energy, were
witnessed during project implementation. Project cost was about 10 percent
below the appraisal estimate, and there was about 2.4 percent undisburoed
remaining from Bank loan proceeds, which has been cancelled.
14.02 The project resulted in substantial gains in terms of the commercial
gas discovery, the establishment of a core rural electrification system, the
identification of energy saving measures and, the discovery of viable renew-
able energy systems in wind and solar power; it also laid the foundation for
developing an institutional support system through the creation of a separate
energy ministry. Added to these gains are the growth in infrastructure
through the installation of equipment and material, the transfer of technology
as demonstrated by the local staff taking over from foreign consultants,
training activities and advisory service facilities.
14.03 There was a general consensus among borrowing agencies that during the
initial phase of project implementation, the Bank's field supervision missions
were insufficient. The Bank felt that the borrowing agencies were not
familiar with its procurement policies and guidelines.



19
14.04 The following lessons wert learned from the various project components:
Petroleum Ixulgration Com9onent. (i) If a project necessitates the
services of several consultants, it may be preferable to hire a consultancy
firm rather than to hire individual consultants. In came of replace-
ments/alternates, a consultancy firm can offer a back-up system that in-
dividual consultante cannot.
(ii) Implementing agencies should assign local staff to work with external
consultants to gain working knowledge and on-the-job training.
Power Distribution Component
(i) The scope of specific project components can be loosely defined to
accommodate minor modifications in implementation without affecting overall
objectives.
(ii) Flexibility in the reallocation of funds is necessary to meet changing
requirements and to execute the project at least cost.
(iii) In-house staff should work in conjunction with the external consultants
to benefit from a transfer of technical know-how. When the in-house staff can
take over responsibilities, the external consultants should be phased out.
Thus, the use of external consultants should be limited to the extent of
transferring expertise and know-how.
(iv) To facilitate closer coordination, the implementing agency should have a
direct link with the Bank, rather than go through an intermediary agency.
(v) The implementing agency should appoint a project manager to supervise,
control and monitor project progress.
Eneroy Conservation Comoonent
(i) Upon request from first-time Borrowers, the Bank should be able to provide
a shortlist of consultants for studies to be undertaken as part of the
project.
(ii) if staff from the implementing agencies have acquired skills in conduct-
ing studies through direct participation with external consultants, these
staff should be allowed to replicate these studies in appropriate establish-
ments.
Reziewable Enerav Component
(i) If a pilot project leads to successful commercialization, the executing
agencies should consider local facilities, including expertise and equipment,
before resorting to foreign sources.
(ii) To ensure project sustainability, it is necessary for the Government to
allocate local costs to MEMR's budget.



20
mnmra Plannino Component
(i) Borrowing agencies can easily secure alternative means of financing using
Bank participation as a promotional tool.
(1i) First-time Borrowers prefer Bank assistance in preparing terms of
reference (TOR) for studles to meet Borrowers' needs.
(iLL) In order to introduce institutional reforms and restructure a sector,
the decislonmakers should initiate policy-based development by assessing the
neds and priorities of the concerned sector. Further, they should aim to
strike a working balance between divisions/departments, staffing and specific
jo. assignments based on the policies and priorities of the sector.
PART II - BENEFICIARIES' COMMENTS
ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
lLoan 2371-JOl
a.    Relevant tables in Part III were updated to reflect the actual data and
information and relevant sections in Part I were reviewed and discussed with
the Bank mission.
b.    There was close cooperation and coordination between the Bank and NRA
staff. The Bank showed positive response to the changing requirements of the
project during the implementation phase and agreed readily to reallocate funds
as necessary. At the early stage of the project and due to the diversity of
consultants engaged, some difficulties in coping with these consultants were
experienced by the limited staff assigned by the Bank to supervisae the
project. However, the Bank overcame these difficulties during the later phase
of the project.
c.    NRA showed strength and flexibilLty in the use of allocated funds and in
requesting reallocation of funds during the project implementation to meet the
changing requirements. for example, funding of the Risha Gas Reservoir
evaluation test. NRA beaefitted during the Azraq Basin study by participating
directly with the consul:ing firm in all phases of the study both in Jordan
and in the consulting fLrms' headquarters in the USA. One of the weaknesses
whlch became clear during the project was to the hiring of individual consul-
tants to work in Jordan instead of hiring a consulting firm responsible to
provide the required individuals to ensure the continuation of the required
services wLthout interruptions.



21
mPQ
a.    Rel-vant tables in Part III were updated after discussioni with the Bank
mission and relevant sections of Part I were reviewed and found to reflect our
comentea
b.    The appraisal process was found to be too time consuming and detailed.
In the early phase of project implementation up to 1987 communication with the
Bank was delayed and Bank missions were infrequent. Seeking clarification on
procurement was difficult.  One of the main problems encountered during
execution of the project was the need for direct communication between the
Bank and JEPCO. There is a need for open linse of communication. Overall,
the bank's performance was very good as it improved very well mince 1987.
C.    The loan was utilized to better the system and project results were
achieved remarkably well.  The borrower's performance was satisfactory.
During project execution, there was a transition from foreign consultants to
an in-house team which took over efficiently and performed well. The foreign
consultant team was used to train the in-house staff, who were at the time not
enough to take over the work completely. The team was nurtured until it was
very adequately staffed and trained. The JEPCO organization benefitted from
the up to date follow-up of the new technologies and manufacturing processes
and installing the MIS system. JEPCO also greatly benefitted by the flexibil-
ity in the design and scope of the project which resulted in completing the
project below that of the original appraisal cost estimate. In this regard,
JEPCO fools that there is a need for reallocation of funds if and when it is
found necessary.
IDECO0
a*    Relevant tables in Part III and relevant sections in Part I were
discussed with the mission and were revised to reflect actual data and
information.
b.    The Bank's performance was good throughout the life of the project.  In
the early period of implementation there were some delays during the appraisal
process and in the evaluation of procurement documents and in payments to
contractors. There were no major obstacles. The Bank's staff were very
cooperative and they did their best to answer our questions, and they continue
to do so during the life of the project.
c.    The loan was utilized to improve the system and to electrify another 55
villages. The project objectives were achieved and IDECO's performance was
overall satisfactory. The project added new customers to the network,
facilitated reinforcement to the network, introduced flexibility to the syatem
and resulted in increased reliability of the system supply. IDECO's staff
performance was very good during preparation stages. They did their best to
benefit from the Bank's experience to prepare the project. In the early
stages there was a need for a foreign consultant in tender preparation,
evaluation, and contract award. Later on IDECO's staff learnt to prepare
their own tender documents and evaluation reports. One of the lessons learnt
was that to facilitate project implementation, IDECO should have appointed a



22
project manager and follow-up latest technologies in setting up of the
Financial information system aj d manufacturing processes. InECO also benefit-
ted from followlng ICB for procurement of goods and services. ICB facilitated
to have a good knowledge of world manufacturers and suppliers at competitive
prices. ona of the lessons learnt was the need for flexibility in the
reallocation of funds to facilitate effective project implementation.
a.    Relevant tables included in Part III of the PCR related to Energy
Planning, Energy conservation, and Renewable Energy were updated to reflect
the actual data and information.
b.    The analysis in Part I was reviewed and discussed with the World Bank
mission and found to reflect our comments.
c.    The Bank's performance was found to be effective during identification
and appraisal stages and attracted co-financiers and other agencies. The Bank
performed very well during the supervision phase of the Renewable energy
component. However, in regard to implementation of Energy planning and energy
conservation components during 1985-87 the Bank's role was minimal in the
selection of consultants, in providing guidance and comments to the various
studies that were undertaken jointly by MEMR and their consultants.
d.    MEMR ensured maximizing the participation of local staff and facilitated
on-the-job training and transfer of technical know-how. In regard to Renew-
able energy component the borrowers performance was very good and the various
renewable energy components were implemented according to the schedule. In
regard to Energy planning and energy conservation components more local staff
should have been allocated to work with the consultants to facilitate data
collection and report preparation. Furthermore, there should have been an
early and better coordin-tion between energy enterprises/factories and NEMR.
Suitable devices and measuring equipment and data processing system should
have been provided early on to derive full benefits from energy conservation
audit reports.
e.    There was very good mutual understanding and cooperation which had a
good impact on the project and attracted co-financiers. During the implemen-
tation stage the cooperation between the Bank MEMR, other agencies, and
various consultants was very good which resulted in the successful execution
of energy planning, energy conservation, and renewable energy activities.



23
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 2371 - JOR
PART III - STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
z..  ,.................. ......................... ............................................................ .....". .. ..
Loan/Credit No.                      Description/                 Year of
Title                          Purpose                   Approval      Status
LN 1986 - JO     Three components--JEA, JEPCO, Energy       May 1981    Completed
Fourth Power Project Dept. (MIT).  Laying of transmission                 PCR submitted
lines, extension and reinforcement of                July 13, 1989
transformer substations, electrification
of villages, consultant services, and
staff training. US$ 25 million.
LN 2162 - JO     Construction of 2 X 130 MW oil fired       May 1982    Completed
Fifth Power Project  seawater cooled steam power station,                 PCR submitted
laying of transmission lines, and                    July 13, 1989
consultant services. US$ 35 million.
LN 2710 - JO     Reh. iilitation and expansion of urban     June 1986    Ongoing
Sixth Power Project  distribution network, electrification                 Closing date
of villages, supply of computer equipment            June 30, 1991
including training, and consultant
services. US$ 27.5 million.
Energy Sector Study  A study of the main issues pertaining to  Feb 1983  Foundation for
the Jordanian Energy Sector along with                LN 2371 - JO
proposed strategy for its development.
Energy Sector Study  To assist in developing a refined energy  Feb 1990    Grey Cover
(Update)       sector development strategy for Jordan.                  Report
This study was to review the status of
recommendations of initial ESS.
Initating Memorandum To assist in addressing Energy Sector      Jan 1991 Progress stalled
for Energy Sector   issues for Jordan, therby furthering the              due to Gulf
Adjustment Loan    goals of the macro adjustment program.                   crisis
Comments:
The related bank loans have aided substantially in improving the efficiency of the
urban and rural power distribution network. Further, the completed projects have proved
to be a worthy exercise for the JEA, JEPCO and IDECO. As a follow-up to improving the
power sector, the Government ventured into formulating a strategy for the development
of the Energy Sector through the identification and recommendation of the findings of the
Energy Sector Studies.



24
TABLE 2
PROJECT TIMETABLE
ITEM                 DATE           DATE         DATE
PLANNED      REVISED        ACTUAL
Identification                                            Nov 1982
(Pre) Appraisal Mission (1)                             Apr 4-29 1983
- Issues Paper and Project Brief                        June 13 1983
Loan Negotiation                                         Oct 24 1983
- Staff Appraisal Report                                 Nov 14 1983
- President's Report                                     Nov 14 1983
Board Approval                                           Dec 20 1983
Loan Signature                                           Jan 9 1984
Loan Effectiveness (2)      May 9 1984    Aug 9 1984   Dec 11 1984
Oct 9 1984
Loan Closing (3)            Dec 31 1987  Dec 31 1988   Dec 31 1990
Dec 31 1989
Loan Completion             Jun 30 1988                  Apr 30 1991
Comments
(1) Appraisal Mission Members: I. Elwan (Economist), Ms. Z. Ladhibi
(Engineer), C.P. Ranganathan (Fin. Analyst), J. Schweighauser
(Geologist), A. Malik (Renewable Energy Specialist), A. Smit
(Petroleum Specialist), S. El Daher (Fin. Analyst), and
J. Mulckhuyse (Conservation Specialist).
(2) Extensions in Loan Effectiveness due to delay in the
ratification procedure to set up the proposed Energy Planning
Unit (EPU) and appoint its Head.  However, an integrated
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR) was formed
prior to setting up of the EPU.
(3) Extensions in Loan Closing date due to modifications in project
scope of Reneweable Energy, allocating the originally
unallocated funds to expansion in project scope for Petroleum
Exploration component and Energy Conservation component based
on the successful discovery of Risha Gas and identifying the
need for an additional study. Further, delays could also be
attributed to right-of-way problems for JEPCO, problems faced
IDECO's urban distribution component, procurement delays, and
loan disbursement completion.



25
TABLE 3
LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
................... ...............................................  ..............
Bank                  Dlsbursements ln US$ millLon
FLscal  Quarter   Cumulatlve Amounts and Percentages
Year           Appraisal    X       Actual      X
........ .....................  ,......... .. ...  %.............................................................. .
FY 84     II        0.00      0.00   0.004    0.01X
III      0.42      1.40X    1.09    3.63X
IV       2.00      6.67X    3.00   10.011
FY 85     I         4.22    14.07%    5.89   19.62X
II       9.27    30.90X   10.57   35.22Z
III     13.81    46.03X   14.68   48.951
IV      18.50    61.67X   17.64   58.801
FY 86     I        21.80    72.67X   19.20   63.991
II      23.80    79.33X   20.51   68.361
III     24.90    83.001   21.88   72.941
IV      26.50    88.331   22.57   75.24X
FY 87     I        27.81    92.701   22.68   75.601
II      28.60    95.33X   22.85   76.16X
III     29.30    97.671   23.39   77.98X
IV      30.00   100.001   24.61   82.021
FY 88     I          -                25.17   83.911
II        -                25.67   85.56X
III       -                26.34   87.791
IV        -                26.93   89.75S
FY 89     I          -                27.41   91.361
II        -                27.56   91.86S
III       -                27.60   91.99X
IV        -                28.35   94.51X
FY 90     I          -                28.52   95.06X
II        -                29.04   96.80X
III                        29.23   97.421
IV        -                29.29   97.65X
FY 91     I
II        -
................... ...................................................................................... 
Comments:
As of Aprll 30, 1991 Equivalent Currency disbursed ls
US$ 29,294,999.21 leaving an undlsbursed amount of
US$ 705,000.79. This amount does not lnclude any
disbursements through balance adjustment entries.



26
TABLE 4
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
. . .. .................... ..... ......... ................ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Indicators/Components               Appraisal                   Actual
. . ..... . ....... . ... ....... ............ ..  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PART A - PETROLEUM EXPLORATION
Make progress in petroleum     * Installation of equipment          Installed
exploration by improving       * Consulting services for     Fully complied with l/
infrastructure facilities and    exploration program
human resource capability;     * Training for NRA's staff         Completed 2/
interest foreign oil companies   in exploration techniques
to Jordan to undertake         * Seismic data processing        Fully implemented
exploration program.
PART B - POWER DISTRIBUTION
Strengthening of urban and     * Rehabilitation of JEPCO &      Completed in-full
rural distribution networks      IDECO urban distrbn. network
for both JEPCO and IDECO,      * Extension of public supply   Completed in-full 3/
enhance project preperation      of electricity to JEPCO &
capability for JEPCO, and        IDECO villages
improve financial planning     * Consulting services
and control capability of        To assist JEPCO in project  Fully complied with 4/
IDECO.                           preparation work
To assist IDECO in financial  Fully complied with
planning sad control
PART C - ENERGY CONSERVATION
Design energy conservation     * Installation of equipment          Installed
measures by improving            for lab & field measurements
infrastructure and human       * Consulting services
resource capability; carry       Energy audits in about      Fully complied with /5
out energy audits to determine    ten selected industries
energy savings, and create     * Training services for:
an awareness for efficient       EPU staff                          Completed
energy usage.                    Energy Conservation Officers       Completed
* Advisory services to EPU           Completed
-- --- --- --- -- --- -- .   .   .. - -- -- .   . . . . . . .   .. -- . . - . --- . - -.- - . .  . -..



27
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
....................... ..........................................................................................9..
Indicators/Components              Appraisal                    Actual
........... ..............................  *......................................... .... ... ..............................
PART D - RENEWABLE ENERGY /6
Make progress in developing    * Installation of equipment        Installed /7
renewable energy alternatives    for Solar and Wind energy
by improving infrastructure,     measurements
and human resource capabilities.* Consulting services
To undertake studies        Fully complied with /8
Expert advice (Solar energy)
* Training
For RSS staff - workshops          Completed
and visits
PART E - ENERGY PLANNING
Develop infrastructure and     * Installation of computer           Installed
human resource capability        equipment
in the area of energy planning, * Consulting services
energy economics, and energy     For related studies           Fully complied with
management.                      Advisory services
* Training
Project, Energy and                Completed
Economic related
Comments:
1/ Prepared promotional brochure and conducted exploration promotion seminars in
Houstan, Texas and Calgary, Canada.
2/ 74 Geologists, Engineers, and Technicians sent abroad for training.
3/ JEPCO 20 villages and IDECO 55 villages.
4/ Detailed engineering design carried out by U.K. Consultants.
Bank assisted in procurement activity.
5/ Energy Audits were initially planned only for large scale energy intensive
industries. However, after successful completion of the same, the scope
was extended to cover medium and small scale industries also.
6/ Renewable energy component scope was revised to include additional study.
7/ 4 X 80 kW wind turbines were connected to the grid successfully.
8/ Jordan was selected for Regional Solar Pilot project.



28
TABLE 5
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Project Costs
.......................................
AppraisalEstimate                            Actual
Local    Foreign                 Local    Foreign
Project Component               Costs  Exchange    Total         Costs  Exchange   Total
Costs                            Costs
(US$ M)                          (US$ M)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,................................................................. ............
(Al Petroleum Exploration                1.00       5.00       6.00       0.76        6.37      7.13
(81 Power Distribution - JEPCO    10.50            17.00      27.50       5.12      14.32      19.44
IDECO      7.97     17.03      25.00        9.44      17.58      27.02
(C] Energy Conservation                  0.40       3.20       3.60       1.60        1.65      3.25
(DI Renewable Energy                     0.70       1.70       2.40       1.39        0.84      2.23
[El Energy Planning                      1.10       1.40       2.50       1.06        1.85      2.91
------..............................................................................
Project Cost                 21.67      45.33      67.00       19.37      42.61     61.98
................... .......................................................  O...... ......... .........................................
Couients:
(1) Physical and Price contingency have been allocated to appropriate components.
(2) Interest during construction and front end fee are not included as part of
project cost.
B. Financing Plan
....................................................................................
Appraisal Estimate                      Actual
Source                  Local    Foreign   Total         Local    Foreign   Total
(US$ M)                          (US$ 1)
............. ....................................  o.............................................. ....  . ........ ..............B..........
(a) IBRD/World Bank                      0.00      30.00      30.00       0.00      29.29      29.29
(b) Cofinancing institutions
* JEPCO                            10.50       3.50      14.00        5.12       1.00      6.12
- IDECO                             7.97       9.03      17.00       9.44        9.86     19.30
(c) Multinational Aid Agencies
- USAID                             0.00       1.20       1.20       0.00        0.84      0.84
- Italian Government                0.00       0.85       0.85       0.00       0.51       0.51
- EEC                               0.00       0.50       0.50       0.00       0.66       0.66
- UNDP                              0.00       0.25       0.25       0.00       0.45       0.45
(d) Domestic
- Local Government                  3.20       0.00       3.20       4.81       0.00       4.81
21.67     45.33       67.00      19.37      42.61      61.98
....................................................................................
Comments:
(1) Foreign exchange risks and cost overruns are borne by the Government of
Jordan for all components except Power distribution component.
(2) Foreign exchange risk and cost overruns for Power distribution component
will be borne by JEPCO and IDECO.



29
TABLE 5 (cont'd)
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN (cont'd)
C. Allocation/Expenditure of Loan Proceeds
.... ........ ............................. ............................................................ ................ ........
Project            Original       Revised       Actual
Component          Allocation    Allocation   Expenditures
PART A - PETROLEUM EXPLORATION                         (in millions)
Consultants' services         2,100,000     3,300,000          3.62
Training                       600,000        603,000          0.00
Adv. proc. of seismic data    1,500,000     1,500,000          1.84
Equipment                      500,000        800,000          0.90
Sub Total             4,700,000     6,200,000          6.37
PART B - POWER DISTRIBUTION
Equipment                    10,400,000    10,400,000         12.18
Installation contracts       2,100,00^     2,100,000          0.52
Consultants' services          300,000        300,000          0.61
Equipment                    7,600,000      7,600,000          7.73
Sub Total            20,400,000    20,400,000         21.05
PART C - ENERGY CONSERVATION
Consultants' services        2,300,000      2,300,000          0.94
Conservation Adviser           200,000        200,000          0.00
Equipment                      350,000        350,000          0.10
Sub Total             2,850,000     2,850,000          1.04
PART D - RENEWABLE ENERGY
Consultants' services           50,000        100,000          0.33
Equipment                      200,000        200,000          0.51
Sub Total               250,000       300,000          0.84
PART E - ENERGY PLANNING
Consultants' services          250,000        250,000          0.00
Unallocated            1,550,000             0          0.00
.. ...... .. ... . ... . .......................... ... ............ ..............
Total              30,000,000    30,000,000         29.30
.................... ........................................................... ..... ..... ...... ... ......
Comments:
(1) Due to the relative importance of the evaluation of Petroleum
exploration prospects $1.5 million was allocated to the
Petroleum Exploration component from the original un-allocated
category.
(2) After the successful implementation of the energy audits among
the large scale industries, the Energy Conservation component
had identified dampness in buildings to affect energy conservation.
The remaining $50,000 was allocated to this component to
facilitate carrying out a study-Control on dampness of buildings.



30
TABLE 6
PRO ECT RESULTS
A. DIRECT BENEFITS
....................... ....... .......... ...... ...................   ............................................... X....................
Indicator           Appraisal           Closing Date          Full Development
Estimate            Estimate                Estimate
...... .............. . ... ........ ...................... ........................... ............................................ .....
(l)First Gas discovery         None         Res. of 320-1700 BCF   Sets the stage for
future exploration
& development.
(2)No. of villages           20 JEPCO       Far exceeded targets   Facilitate future
electrified              55 IDECO                               expansions into
remote areas
(3)Savings in fuel oil         None           50,000 tons/year      100,000 tons/year
thro' Energy Audits                                            potential could be
realized.
(4)Infrastructure      Equipment & Matrl.        Installed         Enhances
Development         Measuring Instrm.         Installed          Infrastructure
Data bases/banks         Completed          availability
(5)Human resource      Training                  Completed         Enhances
Development         In-house & External       Completed         Human Resource
Consultants                                capability
Expert/Advisory          Completed
Services
..-........-.----------------...-....-..---......-.---.--....   ..-...--....-....--.-..



31
TABLE 6
PROJECT RESULTS (cont'd)
B. ECONOMIC IMPACT
(For Power Distributicn component)
Appraisal        Revised    Actual at Full
Estimate       Estimate       Development
Economic Rate
of Return for       12.9X           12.9X         11.45X
sub-sector
- For JEPCO         16.4X           16.4X           19.81
- For IDECO         8.4X            8.4X            8.01
Underlying Assumptions:
(1) Opportunity cost of capital at 10X
(2) Project cost, including contingencies expressed in
1983 prices.
(3) Economic life of project is 30 years.
(4) Proxy for new generation and transmission facilities
is LRMC of supply 28 fils/kWh.
(5) Operations and maintenance cost of about 21 per year
of capital cost.
(6) Cost of energy based on border prices as of March 31,
1983: Gas oil US$ 300/ton and Fuel oil US$ 160/ton.
(7) Proxy for Average Revenue: 55 fils/kWh for IDECO and
36.6 fils/kWh for JEPCO.
(8) Each household consumes about 0.56 ton of petroleum
products/year.
(9) Average electricity consumption/household 1200 kWh.
(10) Savings accruing from substituting electricity for fuel
used in households: 8.6 fils/kWh for IDECO distribution
area, and 27 fils/kWh for JEPCO distribution area.
(11) One time contribution: Urban JD 25 and Rural JD 85
made by new customers.



32
TABLE 6 (cont'd)
PROJECT RESULTS
C. FINANCIAL IMPACT
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
(i) Self Financing Level (X)
JEPCO    Cov.   25      35     35      35     35      35     35      35
Act.   27      52     46     37      33     34       7     (4)
IDECO    Cov.    -      20     20      20     20     20      20     20
Act.    -     52       2     48      43     32      17     38
(ii) Debt Service Ratio (X times)
JEPCO    Cov.  1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50
Act.  1.84   2.55   1.91   1.76   1.62   1.41   1.00   0.81
IDECO    Cov.    -    1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50   1.50
Act.    -    1.09   0.89   1.63   1.26   0.97   0.78   0.60
(iii) Average Collection Period (days)
JEPCO    Cov.    -      42     42      42     42     42      42     42
Act.    -     85      63     48      57     56     69      71
IDECO    Cov.           42     42     42      42     42      42     42
Act.    -     72      52     40      52     48      72     117
Comments:
(a) Initial delays in construction program led to good self-financing
levels in 1984.
(b) Increasing debt service and investments against lower internal
cash generation for IDECO resulted in poor performance in 1985.
(c) Total project costs were 29X lower than appraised for JEPCO and
82 higher than appraised for IDECO.
(d) The impact of significant JD devaluation in 1988/89 was reflected
in the last three years. IDECO's good self-financing level in
1990 was principally due to a large increase in consumer contri-
butions, without which the level would have been 162 negative.
(e) Absence of tariff increases also contributed towards a declining
performance in the last few years. Despite increases in tariffs
in October 1990, average tariff in 1990 remained virtually un-
changed due to a faster growth of consumption in low tariff
categories.
(f) Since the introduction in 1985 of a unified tariff structure,
IDECO has received compensation from the government (through JEA)
ranging from JD 2.45 million to JD 2.0 million.
(g) For JEPCO, the covenanted collection period relates to government
departments and agencies whereas the actual collection period
refers to all consumers.
(h) Both JEPCO and IDECO did not achieve the target except for IDECO
in 1986.
(i) Stringent credit control measures have been introduced recently
and the average collection period for the private sector and
consumers has been reduced to satisfactory levels. However, both
JEPCO and IDECO have faced collection difficulties with government
departments and agencies, particularly the Water Authority, in
the recent past, as reflected in the above statistics.



33
TABLE 6 (cont'd)
PROJECT RESULTS
D. STUDIES
Name of         Purpose as defined   Status         Impact of
Study             at Appraisal                       Study
.......... ........................... ................ ......................................  ........
(A] Petroleum Exploration component
- Azraq Basin Study     Not defined at       Completed Evaluation of
Appraisal.  Evolved            Hydrocarbon
as a result of                 reserves.
project progress.
(B] Power Distribution component
- Financial Planning    To assist JEPCO and Completed Unified accounting
and Control Study     IDECO with stream-              practices similar
lining accounting              to US utilities.
procedures.
(C] Energy Conservation component
- Energy Audit study    Assess potential for Completed  Energy savings of
Energy saving in               50,000 tons/year.
Large industries.
Assess potential for Completed Resulted in 10 - 15%
Energy saving in               energy savings by
Transportation                 way of fuel
Sector.                        management.
- Dampness Control study Not defined at      Completed Determined potential
Appraisal.  Evolved            for energy savings.
as a result of                 Estimated 1 million
project progress.              savings for 5%
coverage.
(D) Renewable Energy component
- Wind Energy project   Explore potential    Completed 4 X 80 kW connected
for wind energy.               to existing grid.
(E] Energy Planning component
- Load Management study To reduce peak       Completed Recommendations
load operations.               estimate about 5%
reduction in peak
load.
- Energy planning and   Towards better       Completed Recommendations
Pricing study         management and                  modified to suit
control.                       local needs.
..  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .



34
TABLE 7
STATUS OF COVENANTS
..............................................................
Sec.                                           Deadline
No.         Description of Covenant             for               Status
Compliance
........................................................................................
LOAN AGREEMENT
3.01  Execution of Project - arrangements,                     Major components
coordination, performance, allocations,                     completed.
implementation - vis-a-vis participating
agencies; and relending terms and
conditions to JEPCO AND IDECO.
3.02  Securing other sources of finance       Dec 31, 1984         Complied
for Parts C, D and E of Project.
3.03  Training activities under Parts C, D,   Time schedule  Satisfactorily completed
and E of the Project - program to be    satisfactory
prepared and implemented by NPC.          to Bank
3.04  Appointment of Consultants for Parts C,               Satisfactorily completed
D, and E of Project implementation.
3.05  Reporting requirements, records and                  Satisfactorily complied
procedures maintenance, and performance
of its obligations during project
implementation.
.  .. .----    .-  ...------------......    -.--......-----..-------------_--.-----..-......-.
PROJECT AGREEMENT WITH NRA
2.02  Appointment of Consultants satisfactory                      Complied
to Bank.
2.03  Training activities-program preparation Time schedule Satisfactorily completed
and implementation under Part A (3)     satisfactory
of Project.                               to Bank
2.06  Reporting requirements, records and                  Satisfactorily complied
procedures maintenance, and performance
of its obligations during Part A of
Project implementation.
4.02  Furnish audited accounts related to,     Six months     Generally complied
operations, resources, and expenditures   after each
related to Part A of the Project.         year.
... .. .. ... .. .. .. ... .. .. .. ... .. .. .. ... .. .. .. ... .. .. .. ... .. .. ..



35
TABLE 7 (cont'd)
STATUS OF COVENANTS
PROJECT AGREEMENT WITH IDECO
3.04  Prepare a plan to strengthen its          Jun 30, 1984  Satisfactorily complied
(a)   capabilities in financial planning,
managment and control through the
services of Bank approved experts.
3.04  Obtain bank's comments and thereafter    Jan 31, 1986  Satisfactorily complied
(b)    implement plan as in 3.04 (a)
3.05  Employ a qualified and experienced        Dec 31, 1984  Satisfactorily complied
financial planner.
FINANCIAL COVENANTS
4.02   Furnish audited accounts related to,     Five months      Generally complied
operations and financial condition.       after each
year.
4.03  Self financing ratios of 20% for          Year-to-year  Complied for years i984 -
fiscal years 1984 through 1988, and         basis      1987.  Not compll.d since
30X for the subsequent years.                          1988.
4.06  Measures for improving billing and        Dec 31, 1984  Partially complied.
collection procedures: payment within                  Steps have been taken to
six weeks from date of issuance, and                   reduce A/R to 45 days on
security deposit of two months estimated               90% of its sales.
consumption.
,....................... ........................................................................ ............................. ...............
PROJECT AGREEMENT WITH JEPCO
4.02  Furnish audited accounts related to,      Five months      Generally complied
onerations and financial condition.       after each
year.
4.03   Self financing ratios of 25X for         Year-to-year  Not complied for years
fiscal year 1983, and 351 for 1984          basis      1985, 1988, and 1989.
and subsequent years.
4.07  Measures for improving billing and        Mar 31, 1984  Partially complied.
collection procedures: payment within                  Steps have been taken to
six weeks from date of issuance.                       reduce A/R to 45 days on
90X of its sales.
........................................    ......................................  .......



36
TABLE 8
USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. STAFF INPUTS
(Staff Weeks)
*.. ..... ............ ..... ............ .. .... ... .. ... .. .. .............. .. ............... .
Stage of                  Planned  Revised  Actual    X of   Comments
Project Cycle                     Total    Total    Total    Total
...... .............. ..... ............ .............. .......................... ............................ .
Through Appraisal
Jun 1983                                                                  47.0    26.18X
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Dec 1983                                                                  14.8              8.25X
Board Approval
through
Effectiveness
Dec 1984                                                                    7.9             4.40X
Supervision
starting Jul 1985                                                       109.8    61.17%  Note
...............................................................
Total                                                          179.5   100.00O
...............................................................
Note: Upto and including Supervision Mission in Jun 1990.



37
TABLE 8
USE OF BANK RESOURCES
B. MISSIONS
......................................................................
Stage of     Month/    Number  Days  Performance    Types
Project      Year       of     in      Rating        of    Comments
Cycle                Persons Field    Status     Problems
......................................................................
I. Appraisal through Board Approval
Feb-Mar 1983    4     21
Apr 1983      8     23
Apr-May 1983    1     10
II. Board Approval through Effectiveness
Mar-Apr 1984    4     21        2           M
May 1984      1      4
Jun 1984      1      1
Aug-Sept 1984    4     20        2           M         1/
Dec 1984      1      4
III. Supervision through Completion
Jul 1985      4      7
Jul-A%'; 1985    3    12        2           F         2/
Dec 1985      1      3        1
Jun-Jul 1986    3     28        1           F
Jul 1986      1     10        2           F
Nov 1986      1      7        1
Apr 1987      1     12        1           F
Nov 1987      1     10        1           F
Dec 1987      1      7        1
Jun-Jul 1988    3     14        2           F
Oct-Nov 1989    3     16        2           F         3/
May-Jun 1990    2     24        2           F         4/
IV. Compleeion/PCR
May 1991      3     14
.. ... ... . .................. .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .
Comments:
1/ Along with Supervison Mission of LN 1986-JO, LN 2162-JO
and Identification of LN 2710 - JO.
2/ Along with Supervision Mission of LN 1986-JO, LN 2162-JO,
and Preperation of LN 2710 - JO.
3/ Along with Updating of Energy Sector Report.
4/ Along with Preperation Mission of Energy Sector
Adjustment Loan.
Note:
Performance Rating: Minor problems-l, Moderate problems-2,
Major problems-3.
Types of Problems:
P-Procurement, F-Financial, O-Operational, T-Technical.



38
TABLE 8
USE OF BANK RESOURCES
C. COSTS
Stage of       Total S       Avg. $ Cost         Avg. $ Cost
Project        Cost of     of HQ Activities    of Fld. Activity
Cycle           Staff        per Mission         per Mission
Inputs          member              member
I ~~. ...  ....   .................... .............. ......................................... .......
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through                   N 0 T
Board Approval
A V A I L A B L E
Board Approval
through                              O N
Effectiveness
M I S
Supervison
--  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



