Document Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Rhpwt No. P-3685-JO
REPOlP AND RECOUNENDATION
OF TEM
PREIENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR REC-NSTRUCTION AmD DEVEPM
TO THE
EXECuTIVz DIRECTORS
OR A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30 MION
TO THE
sNENITE KINGDoM OF JORDAN
POR DN
ENER DEVELOPMENT PRI.)rCT
November 14, 1983
XuemI    t    a   _dd uidmi may be mEd by hu            ly lo dh pufemmee if
I  hir mdial 1dim  lb   =my Be gbmulism be itac   W  Wed  1       _ _ I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1982             June 1983
Curt ency UI<_,                 Jordan dinar (JD)           JD
US $1.00                           JD 0.35                  0.36
JD 1.000                           US$2.82                  2.80
Exchange rate used in the Appraisal Report JD lUS$2.8l
Fiscal Year - Calendar Year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EPU                                Energy Planning Unit
IDECO    .                         Irbid District Electricity Company.
JEA-                               Jordan Electricity Authority
JEPCO                              Jordanian Electric Power Company
JPRC                               Jordanian Petroleum Refinery Company
LPG                                Liquified Petroleum Gas
MIT                                Ministry of Industry and Trade
WVA                                Megavolt ampere
NEC                                National Energy Comuittee
NPC                       -        National Planning Council
NRA                                Natural Resources Authority
PD                                 Petroleum Department at NRA
RSS                                R oyal Scientific Society
toe                                tons of oil equivalent
Tapline                            Trans-Arabian pipeline



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Beneficiaries;             Jordanian Electric Power Company (JEPCO)
Irbid District Electricity Company Limited (IDECO)
Amount;                    US$30 million equivalent
Terms:                      17 years, including four years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:           Part of the proceeds of the loan will be relent to
JEPCO ($13.5 million) and IDECO ($8.0 million) on
the same terms as the proposed loan. JEPCO and
IDECO would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:             The proposed project would assist power subsector
development as well as contribute to petroleum
exploration and the improvement of energy
efficiency and planning. It has the following
components: (i) Power Distribution. This
component will promote the expansion and
rehabilitation of the urban distribution networks
in JEPCO's and IDECO's concession areas and the
electrification of 20 villages in the Governorates
of Amman and Balka and 55 villages in the
Governorate of Irbid. Consultant services will be
provided to assist JEPCO in the preparation of
detailed engineering designs, supervision of
construction and erection, and to assist IDECO in
strengthening its financial planning and control
capability. (ii) Petroleum Exploration. This
component includes consultant services, training
and purchasing of equipment in order to improve
exploration, drilling and production activities.
(iii) Energy Conservation. This component covers
the acquisition of equipment to determine the
energy efficiency of capital equipment. It
includes consulting services for undertaking energy
audits and project preparation in selected
industries with potential for energy saving. The
component also covers short-term training abroad,
and advisory services to Energy Planning Unit (EPU).
This document has a rewicred distribution and may bee used by recipients only in the performance of|
!their ofriaal dutieL Its contents Mnay not otherwise be discloged without World Bank authoriztion.|



- ii -
(iv) Renewable Energy. This component will
provide consultant services, training for Royal
Scientific Society (RSS) staff and the acquisition
of equipment to further the knowledge and
development of alternative energy sources,
specifically solar energy. (v) Energy Planning,
This component consists of the acquisition or
computer equipment, provision of consultant
services and short-term training to promote energy
planning and conservation and policy formulation.
The principal beneficiaries would be the urban and
rural population of Amman, Balka and Irbid
Governorates who will benefit from electrification
or reliable power distribution. No risks are
associated with the project other than those
normally arising from petroleum exploration.
Project implementation will require a high degree
of coordination, and appropriate measures to ensure
this are embodied in the project (para. 49).
Estimated Cost:                                     Local    Foreign    Total
-S ~~~~~~~~~~~~Million---
Power Distribution Component
JEPCO                                      8.4        13.3      21.7
IDECO                                      5.9        14.1      20.0
Petroleum Exploration Component                 0.9         4.7        5.6
Conservation Component                          0.4         2.9       3.3
Renewable Energy Component                      0.6         1.5        2.1
Energy Planning Component                       1.0         1.2        2.2
Base Cost                                          17.2        37.7       54.9
Physical Contingencies                          0.8         1.2       2.0
Price Contingencies                             3.7         6.4       10.1
Total Project Cost 1/                               21.7       45.3       =7.O
Interest During Construction                     -          1.0       1.0
Total Financing Required                            21.7       46.3       68.0
Financing Plan;
Government of Jordan                            3.2          -        3.2
World Bank Loan                                  -         30.0      30.0
JEPCO and IDECO                                18.5        13.5      32.0
EEC                                              -          0.5       0.5
Italian Government                                          0.8       0.8
USAID                                                       1.2        1.2
UNqDP                                                       0.3       0.3
21.7       46.3       68.0
I/  Does not include tax or import duties, from which the project is exempt.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursementi:       Bank FY           1984   1985   1986   1987
---------   $illio…--- ~
Annual                               2.0    16.5   8.0    3.5
Cumulative                           2.0    18.5  26.5   30.0
Rate of Return; 12.9 percent on power distribution component (76 percent of
project base cost).
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 4626-JO, dated November 14, 1983.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN FOR AN
ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan, to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of US$30.0 million equivalent to
help finance an Energy Development Project.  The loan would be for a 17-year
period, including 4 years of grace at the standard variable interest rate.
Part of the proceeds of the Loan (US$21.5 million) would be relent to
Jordanian Electric Power Company (JEPCO) and to Irbid District Electricity
Authority (IDECO) on the same terms as the Bank Loan. The sub-borrowers would
bear the foreign exchange risk. The UNDP, EEC, USAID and the Italian
Government would contribute about US$2.8 million equivalent towards project
financing. The balance of the financing would be provided by the Government,
JEPCO and IDECO.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled "Jordan Review of the Five-Year Plan" (No. 4129-JO,
dated May 1983) was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1983. An
economic mission visited the country in May/June 1983; its findings have been
included in the present text. Country data sheets are attached as Annex 1.
3.       Jordan is a country of 2.4 million people (East Bank) with limited
natural resources and a traditionally service and trade-oriented economy. It
has enjoyed a high rate of growth and made good progress in developing
manufacturing production, increasing investment, and promoting exports. This
economic performance has taken place in the context of increasing trade with
neighboring countries, expanding inflow of remittances from Jordanians working
abroad, and substantial levels of foreign aid.
Recent Economic Developments
4.       Renewed stability following the disruptions of 1967-71, 8nd the oil
boom in the region after 1973 created a climate conducive to sustained and
rapid economic growth during 1975-82, resulting in an average annual GDP
rowth of over 10 percent in real terms. In 1982, GNP per capita reached
51,692. The upsurge of the economy was due to; (a) the rapid growth of the
mining and manufacturing sectors; (b) the sharp increase in construction,
particularly in housing and large public works; and (c) favorable external
factors, including booming conditions in the Gulf countries. While rainfed
agriculture suffered from a severe drought during the 1976-79 period and more
recently in 1981, vegetable and fruit production in the irrigated areas
increased significantly.
5.       The overall balance of payments remains strong despite a large
chronic deficit in merchandise trade. Exports of goods and non-factor
services increased by 32 percent annually at current prices from 1975 to
1981. This growth was due to high demand and prices for fruits and vegetables



in neighboring countries, booming exports of manufactured goods and a sharp
increase in receipts from tourism and other non-factor services. Jordanian
goods have been able to compete successfully in Middle East markets because of
the advantages of Arab Common Market and bilateral agreements, the relatively
good quality of the products, enterprising marketing and the favorable
geographical location. Although the growth in the volume of imports was
slower than that of exports, the resource g8p increased in current terms from
b560 million in 1975 to about $2,318 million iv. 1981. These trade deficits,
however, were fully compensated by factor income and transfers from abroad.
As a result, Government-guaranteed external borrowing remained within
reasonable limits and borrowing on commercial terms was reduced to a modest
level (para. 15).
6.       Expenditure and domestic revenue of the Government both increased at
a rate of about 23 percent per annum through 1976-81. The overall budget
deficits were financed by a rising volume of grants from Arab countries
following the Baghdad Summit Conference in 1978. Current expenditures,
excluding defense, were covered by domestic revenues. Defense expenditures
were largely financed by foreign grants.
7.       The main concerns of monetary policy have been mobilizing savings and
controlling domestic liquidity. Private savings have improved, but public
savings have continued to be negative because of the high level of defense
expenditures. To promote domestic savings, greater discretion is being
allowed the Central Bank in adjusting interest rates and banking commissions.
Increases in deposit rates were effected and have resulted in savings deposits
increasing faster than money supply. Together with a marked decline in
inflation to around 7 percent in 1982-83, these increases have resulted in
interest rates becoming substantially positive again in real terms.
B.       In 1982, the rapid GNP growth slowed down to 7.4 percent, mainly as a
result of the slowdown in industry and construction. Exports and workers'
remittances also stagnated, reflecting the deceleration in economic activity
in the neighboring oil producing countries. Appropriate Government policy
responses prevented this slowdown from creating balance of payments problems.
The Government reduced sharply the public investments following a decline in
grant aid, while private investments were slowed down by the near stagnation
of workers' remittances. Construction activity and imports of machinery and
equipment declined in parallel to investments. As a result of investment
cut-backs, the overall public finance deficit exceeded only slightly the 1981
level, and foreign borrowing increased only moderately.  The overall balance
of payments showed a slight deficit for the first time in four years and
foreign exchange reserves declined by some 12 percent, but remained at over
three months' imports.
9.       Several indicators point to a further slowdown in the overall
economic growth rate to about 6 percent (in real terms) in 1983, a
satisfactory performance considering the present unfavorable economic
environment; foreign grant aid is expected to decline by another 20 percent,
workers' remittances have stagnated while exports of manufactured goods and of
services to neighboring countries have slowed down or, as in the case of Iraq,
declined. These negative factors are compensated to some extent by a marked
increase in exports of raw and processed minerals as the large fertilizer and



- 3 -
potash projects have come on stream. In addition, imports are declining in
line with the sizable reduction in public and private investments, while the
Government has further intensified its domestic resource mobilization efforts
through cuts in subsidies and improved collection of direct and indirect
taxes. As a result, domestic resources are likely to exceed 90 percent of
current budget expenditures and the overall balance of payments is expected to
show a 35-40 percent lower current account deficit; this deficit is likely to
be more than covered by foreign grants and the proceeds of a $225 million
Eurodollar loan contracted in early 1983.
Medium-Term Prospects
10.      The current Plan (1981-85) aimed at maintaining the rate of growth of
the economy close to that achieved during the previous plan. In terms of the
investment program, the Plan was ambitious-total investment would be
maintained at 33-35 percent of GNP, 53 percent of which is by the Government.
The announced strategy is to pursue the objectives of the last decade, namely
to; (a) reduce the heavy dependence on external assistance while maintaining
rapid growth; (b) diversify the economy by increasing commodity production;
(c) reduce the budget deficit; and (d) improve the distribution of the
benefits of growth.
11.      Given the changed situation and outlook in the neighboring oil
producing countries and its impact on the availability of resources for
investment and public expenditures, continuing GDP growth in the 9-11 percent
range would no longer appear feasible.   Projections on the basis of revised
assumptions indicate that a rate of 5-6 percent p.a. in real terms appears
more likely. It is assumed that a reduction will take place in the
exceptionally high investment rate experienced during the early 1980's (40-45
percent of GNP). Industrial output, however, will benefit from the completion
of a number of major projects such as potash and fertilizer, now at initial
stages of production, and is likely to maintain an overall average annual
growth rate of about 10 percent. Barring serious disruptions in agricultural
output through unfavorable weather conditions, Jordan would realize a
significant increase in the share of commodity producing sectors in total
domestic output (from 38 percent to 43 percent) and thus correspondingly
reduce its traditional dependence on the services sector.
12.      The medium-term prospects for increasing exports remain promising.
The completion of the major export-oriented industrial projects, together with
the enterprise displayed by the private sector, should result in significant
*          increases in foreign exchange earnings after 1982.  In agriculture, the
expected increase in vegetable and fruit exports will, however, be more than
offset by growing imports of food, and the agricultural trade deficit would
probably increase.  Even though merchandise exports are projected to maintain
a high rate of increase (13 percent p.a. at constant prices) while imports
would grow at a significantly lower rate, the trade deficit could continue to
increase and could exceed the two billion dollar mark by 1984. In relation to
GNP, however, the resource gap is expected to show a significant further
decline (from 62 percent to 48 percent). Unlike the recent experience, net
workers' remittances and foreign grants, which are likely to decline, may not
be sufficient to meet the growing trade deficit. Jordan therefore would have
to rely more on external borrowing (para. 16).



-4-
Social Issues
13.      Due to the substantial migration of Jordanians to neighboring
countries and the rapid economic growth, the present labor market situation
has been characterized by selective manpower shortages. However, according to
the Bank's manpower projections demand and supply for labor in Jordan might
become more balanced throughout this decade with the possibility of an
emerging surplus of certain categories of skilled profesmionals. In 198', out
of the approximately 800,000 Jordanians (including Palestinians from the West
Bank) residing abroad, a little over 200,000 were estimated to be workers,
compared to a total domestic employment of about 440,000. Domestic employment
includes a number of foreign workers currently estimated at about 80,000; half
of these workers are unskilled. The country has expanded its education and
training systeu rapidly, to meet both domestic and external needs. A compre-
hensive manpower and training plan is needed to help ensure that; (a) the
economy does not suffer from shortages of crucial skills, while meeting
prospective demand for skilled workers abroad as far as possible; and (b) the
potential labor force is utilized more fully--especially the seasonally idle
workers in rainfed areas and women, whose participation, although growing
fast, is still low. The Bank is assisting the Government with a review of
these matters.
14.      The Government has further emphasized social issues in the current
Five-Year Plan (1981-85). Although the social indicators provide a relatively
favorable reading in most sectors, social services are unevenly distributed
across income groups and between urban and rural areas. Thus, while health
infrastructure is adequate and life expectancy is relatively high (61 years),
medical doctors are concentrated in urban centers. Housing remains a problem
despite the boom in 1978-80, mainly because housing costs have far exceeded
the means of the lower income groups   The Government's concern about these
issues has led to the setting up of the new Ministry of Social Affairs in
November 1979 to define a coherent social development program. The Bank has
assisted the Government with reviews of the urban and regional development
issues.
External Assistance
15.      With the large chronic trade deficit offset by inflows of remittances
and foreign transfers, the current account of the balance of payments was on
average in equilibrium through 1975-81. Net workers' remittances increased
from about $160 million in 1975 to about $900 million in 1981 and 1982.
Following the Baghdad Arab Summit Conference in November 1978, which pledged
assistance of about b1.2 billion per year over a 10-year period, net foreign
grant aid rose from $400-500 million in 1977-78 to about $1.3 billion in 1980
and 1981; it declined to some $1 billion in 1982. This decline was the main
reason for the current account deficit of over $330 million in that year. The
external public debt outstanding and disbursed reached 01.7 billion at the end
of 1982 (about 40 percent of GNP); the outstanding and disbursed debt to IDA
was about $84 million, and to IBRD, about $70 million. External debt service
payments amounted to $193 million in 1982 or 6.1 percent of total exports of
goods and services.



16.      Jordan's impressive stability, pragmatic economic and social policies
and efficient economic management have helped to attract large foreign
assistance.  Except for aid related to defense expenditures, the grant
component of this foreign assistance is expected to decline over the next few
years. The projections indicate a need for average gross external borrowing
of about $600 million over the 1983-87 period. While bilateral and
multilateral sources can be expected to provide the bulk of external
resources, Jordan is likely to resort increasingly to the financial markets,
and this would result in a hardening of loan terms. On these assumptions, the
debt service ratio as a percentage of exports of goods and services is
projected to reach 7-8 percent by 1987 and some 10 percent by 1990. Given
this outlook and the country's record of prudent management, Jordan remains
creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 1/
17.      Jordan has received eleven Bank loans totalling $250.8 million and
fifteen IDA credits totalling $86.1 million (net of cancellations) of which
all the credits and one loan have been fully disbursed. Project
implementation and disbursement performance have been generally satisfactory.
In recent years, disbursements have consistently amounted to about 65 - 70
percent of appraisal estimates. The IDA credits have financed projects in key
sectors, such as education, highways, water supply and sewerage, power,
irrigation and tourism. By mid-1978, Jordan had attained a stage of economic
development where it could be considered creditworthy for Bank lending and had
reached a GNP per capita level that exceeded IDA limits. IDA lending was thus
discontinued after March 1978. IFC has made investments in Jordan with total
commitments of $94.2 million.  Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and IDA credits, and IFC investments as of September 30, 1983.
18.      Bank group assistance to Jordan has been directed toward export-
oriented projects on which the Bank Group has cooperated closely with the
Government in project preparation and in the mobilization of large external
financial assistance. In addition, the Bank Group has been assisting the
Government in implementing its social objectives of improving the income and
living standards of the rural and urban poor, as well as expanding manpower
training, as enunciated in the first Five-Year Plan (1976-80) and emphasized
in the second Five-Year Plan (1981-85). Bank assistance has also fostered the
development of the power subsector to meet the demand from a rapidly growing
economy.
19.      In line with these objectives, the Bank Group has provided technical
assistance for developing and implementing a plan for expanding phosphate rock
mining, and for preparing a comprehensive program for a second phase of
development of the agricultural potential of the Jordan Valley and for water
supply based on the Maqarin Dam. An engineering credit was made in FY1975 to
help prepare a large project for potash production from the Dead Sea via solar
evaporation, for which a loan was approved by the Executive Directors in
1/ Substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report for the
Amman Transport and Municipal Development Loan which was distributed to
the Executive Directors on May 26, 1983.



3optember 1978; the project has been successfully completed. In addition,
further support for the Government's uccial and economic objectiVes was
provided in recent years by loans for the Four*h srd Fifth Education projects
approved in December 1981 and March 1983, the Cities and Villages Development
Bank (CVDB) project approved in March 1980, the Urban Development and Urban
Transport projects approved in July 1980 and July 1983, the Fifth Power
proj.!ct approved in May 1982, and the Zarqa/Ruseifa Water Supply and Sewerage
project approved in December 1982.
20.      The Government has requested intensified assistance from the Bank to
achieve the Plan objectives with respect to vocational and technical training
in order to meet the manpower needs of the economy, and provide secondary
education in less developed regions. To continue to assist in this important
sector, a sixth education project is under preparation for consideration in
this fiscal year. Other projects under preparation include mining,
manufacturing, transport, water supply/sewerage, and health development.
21.      In a parallel effort at the macroeconomic and sectoral levels, the
Bank assisted the Government by reviewing the 1981-85 Five-Year Plan, with
emphasis on industrial sector and manpower analysis. It has also helped
review the energy and urban sectors, regional development issues, and export
strategy and export promotion in manufacturing industries as well as the
health sector. The reports entitled Energy Sector Study, Review of the
Five-Year Plan (1981-85), Export Strategy and Export Promotion In
Manufacturing Industries, and Urban Sector Review were distributed to the
Executive Directors in March 1983, May 1983, and June 1983 (both Export
Promotion and Urban Sector Reviews) respectively. The reports on regional
development and health sector reviews are under preparation.
22.      At the end of 1980, the actnal Bank Group share in Jordan's total
external public debt was estimated at 8 percent, and its share in debt service
was 2 percent. By 1985, the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt service are expected to be about 7 percent and 5.5 percent respectively.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
23.      Energy Resources.  Jordan's known energy resources consist of
deposits of oil shale, some tar sands, a small hydropower potential, and a few
geothermal sources of low surface temperatures. No commercially exploitable
coal, lignite, uranium or oil and gas reserves are known to exist. Moreover,
with the exception of solar energy and possibly wind energy, Jordan's
endowment of non-commercial and renewable energy is modest. Oil shale
deposits are presently known to exist near Amman, the Yarmouk River, and in
southern Jordan. So far, only the deposits at El-Lajjun near Amman have been
geologically investigated in some detail. Following the recommendations of
the Bank, the Government has appointed an advisory group of foreign experts to
review proposals for exploiting oil shale resources. Several areas have been
identified where oil and sas could be present. Of these, four areas are of
immediate interest for petroleum exploration. Due to the inadequacy of
geological data and outdated techniques for evaluating the data, international
oil firms have not been interested in exploration. The proposed Project would
strengthen Jordan's capabilities in undertaking the geological work needed for
exploration drilling programs. Jordan's hydropower potential is limited to



about 30 MW (87 GWh per annum) of which 4 MW (12 CWh per annum) is at Ring
Talal Dam on the River Zarqa. This potential will be developed when the dam
is raised an additional 15 meters in 1984. The rest of the hydropower
potential iB on the Yarmouk River and its exploitation would be subject to
solution of riparian issues. Geothermal reBources exist in the form of hot
springs near the Dead Sea. The USAID is currently financing a *tudy by the
U.S. Geological Survey for the assessment of theme resources. Preparations
are underway for the exploration drilling phase of the assesmment. In
addition to geothermal energy, solar energy constituteB Jordan's main
renewable energy resource.  The ongoing and planned pilot and demonstration
schemes are proceeding without the benefit of an overall plan. The Project
would address shortcomings in this area.
24.      Institutional setting.  Several entities are concerned with the
operation and development of Jordan's energy sector. The planning,
coordination, and policy formulation involves three bodies: the National
Planning Council (NPC), the Ministry of Industry and Trade (HIT), and the
National Energy Committee (NEC). The development of domestic sources of
primary energy is entrusted to the Natural Ite1sources Authority (NRA). The
production and delivery of secondary energy are the responsibility of the
Jordan Petroleum Refinery Company (JPRC), the Jordan Electricity Authority
(JEA), the Jordanian Electric Power Company (JEPCO), and the Irbid District
Electricity Company (IDECO). Energy research involves the Royal Scientific
Society (RSS) and the universities. These institutions are autonomous,
well-organized and efficient in discharging their responsibilities with the
exception of NEC which experienced severe difficulties in recruiting
experienced staff. Partly due to the weaknesses of NEC, overall energy sector
planning, and investment coordination among key sector institutions remained
unfulfilled. Consequently, the Government has streamlined the prevailing
structure by creating, in April 1983, the Steering Committee for Energy (SCE)
composed of seven members representing the power, petroleum, and refining
subsectors, and MIT. SCE would set the guidelines for and monitor the
operations of the newly created Energy Planning Unit (EPU) in NPC which would
be staffed to function as the sole energy planning entity in the country. The
Project would assist in this area. Additional information on sector
institutions that are directly involved in the implementation of the proposed
project is included in Part IV of this report.
25.      Energy Demand.  Jordan's energy consumption incr -sed at an average
annual rate of about 12.3 percent for the period 1976-19bL. This compares with
an average GDP growth of 9.5 percent per annum, resulting in an energy
coefficient of 1.3. The high rate of consumption was primarily due to: the
increased access of the households, commerce and small industries to publicly
supplied electricity; the initiation or expansion of relatively large energy
intensive industries such as cement, phosphate, and potash; the increased
remittances of the Jordanian workers which stimulated a demand for energy; and
the growth of the transportation sector, particularly road and air transport.
26.      The growth of energy consumption between 1983 and 1990 is expected to
average about 9.4 percent as a result of the comprehensive energy conservation
program and demand management policies to be initiated under the proposed
Project. These policies would involve the continuation of the Government's



effort in phasing out the subsidies for fuel oil, diesel oil and aviation
fuel, which was initiated in 1979, the maintenance of electricity tariffs in
real terms at or above their prebent level which is fairly close to the
economic cost of supply, the implementation of a system for the efficient
transport, storage and delivery of petroleum products, the investment in the
restructuring of industrial energy use, and the increased use of solar energy
for meeting part of the needs.
27.      Energy Supply.  Jordan is totally dependent on imported energy for
its supply of commercial energy. Its imports are in the form of crude oil.
At times, petroleum products are traded to complement the refinery's output or
dispose of surpluses. Unless oil and gas are discovered as a result of the
ongoing and planned exploration program, Jordan would continue to depend on
imported energy in meeting its domestic demand for energy. The growth of
imports of crude oil and petroleum products are expected to be about
11 percent per annum for the period 1983-1990. This would imply imports of
about 5.8 million toe in 1990, compared with 2.4 million toe in 1983. The
imports of petroleum products would be in the form of middle distillates
(diesel oil and aviation fuel) and fuel oil.
28.      Price Policy.  During the 1960s and early 1970s, Jordan's petroleum
subsector was a net contributor to the public revenues. However, following
the increases in the price of imported oil that started in 1973, the
Government decided to buffer the economy from the adverse impact of higher
energy prices by raising the tax on light distillates to cover the cost of
general subsidies extended to consumers of middle and heavy distillates.
Despite the increase in the tax on light distillates, the revenues collected
fell short of covering the rising cost of the subsidies because of the
sustained increases in the price of imported oil and the inadequate
adjustments in domestic prices of petroleum products. The Government cove-ed
these shortfalls, which reached JD 22 million (W65 million) in 1978. Faced
with the prospect of a sustained increase in the burden of the subsidies on
the national budget, the Government decided in 1979 to phase out the subsidies
by gradually closing the gap between domestic and border prices. Because of
the upward adjustments in domestic prices, which occurred six times between
March 1979 and February 1983, and because of the stagnation in the import
price of oil for most of 1982, the deficit (net subsidy) covered by the
Government in 1982 amounted to JD16.5 million (t46.3 million). In 1982, the
domestic price of the reconstituted barrel was about $33.2 compared with the
actual cost of about $35.8. Since then the average price of imported oil has
fallen and has so far remained at its March 1983 level of $31 per barrel.  As
the domestic price of the reconstituted barrel is calculated at ¢36, the
petroleum sector is expected to become a net contributor to the revenues of
the Government in 1983. There is no economic justification for the cross
subsidization between petroleum products. The Government's objective is to
phase out the remaining petroleum product subsidies over the 1984-1989 period,
and an understanding has been reached between the Government and the Bank on
this matter.
29.      Electricity Pricing.  JEA sets the tariffs for sales to the bulk
consumers (large industries, JEPCO and IDECO). At the retail level, tariffs
are set by JEA in consultation with JEPCO and IDECO; however, their actual



implementation requires Government approval. Between 1977 and 1980, tariffs
were at levels that conveyed to consumers the cost to the economy of the
resources used in meeting their electricity demand (long run marginal cost).
This advantage was lost in 1982 because of the Government's reluctance to
allow JEA to pass on fuel cost increases to the consumers. However, following
the recent drop in the border price of fuel oil Cmain fuel used in power
generation) the prevailing tariffs again reflect the economic cost of supply.
During 1977-1980, JEA, JEPCO and IDECO covered their operating costs and
generated at least 25 percent internal cash contribution towards the cost of
their development program. However, the JEA's level of internal cash
generation fell below 25 percent for 1981 and 1982. IDECO's cash generation
was also lower (6-9 percent) in this period due to heavy investments in rural
electrification. By contrast, the level of internal cash generation for JEPCO
has been in excess of 30 percent for the same two years. In line with the
Government's social policy, JEA supplies rural consumers at tariffs that are
substantially below the economic cost of supply and provides free electricity
for public lighting and Government institutions. The Government has
compensated JEA for these services and enabled the Authority to reach the
agreed cash generation level in 1981 and 1982. JEPCO and IDECO also have
incurred losses on their rural services but they have not been compensated for
these losses. To assist the power entities with rural electrification
programs, the Government has recently established a special fund to be
financed from tax revenues. The fund would contribute soft loan and equity
financing towards rural electrification programs. In addition, the
communities which wili benefit from electrification would make a lump-sum cash
contribution of 5,000 JD to 15,000 JD towards the cost of investment. Thus,
the cost of rural electrification would be more widely shared. The low
voltage consumers are charged uniform block rates. This is inconsistent with
the Government's policy of encouraging conservation and restraining the growth
of demand for energy. By introducing increasing block rates in the structure
of electricity tariffs, large domestic and small commercial consumers could be
induced to conserve electricity. The Government and JEA have reviewed, in
October 1982, the means for further resource mobilization by restructuring
block rates in the low voltage tariff structure. Currently, the Government is
considering JEA's implementation proposals as agreed under Loan 2162-JO of
1982.
30.      Power Distribution.  Development of power distribution is divided
among JEA, JEPCO and IDECO, depending on the area. The distribution networks
in Jordan are designed by experienced foreign consultants and follow British
standards. JEPCO and IDECO, the entities responsible for the distribution of
about 90 percent of all the electricity sold at the mediumr- and low-voltage
levels, design and implement their programs with the assistance of
consultants. JEA plans and executes its own program and provides design
assistance to IDECO. JEA's distribution network expansion program for
1981-1986 includes about 150 km of overhead lines and 120 MVA in substation
transformer capacity. JEPCO's plans involve the extension and reinforcement
of the distribution network in its concession area by constructing 140 power
substations, 530 distribution substations, and installing 250 km of
underground cables and 80 km of overhead lines at medium voltage. IDECO's
distribution plans include the reinforcement of the distribution network in
the city of Irbid by the construction of a new substation, the installation of



- 10 -
underground cables and other measures. With the completion of planned
investments, the access to electricity is expected to increase from 72 percent
to 89 percent and from 69.3 percent to 92.8 percent in JEPCO's and IDECO's
concession areas respectively. JEA has prepared, in collaboration with JEPCO
and IDECO, a national rural electrification plan covering all villages to be
electrified in the period 1981-2000. At present, 232 villages with a total
population of 585,000 (60 percent of the rural population) have been
electrified.
31.      Role of IDA/Bank.  The Bank Group operations in the sector have
supported the development of a rapidly expanding and modern power system. The
objectives of these operations are the institutional development of power
companies, development of their planning capabilities, the introduction of a
tariff structure based on marginal costs and the prngressive interconnection
of the power system to provide reliable and economic power supply. IDA/Bank
lending has also helped Jordan attract other external financing for the energy
sector. The Bank's sector review has recommended a comprehensive action plan
for the energy sector (see Staff Appraisal Report, Annex I). Some of the
recommendations have already been implemented, others will be implemented
under the proposed loan. The proposed loan would be the sixth Bank Group
lending operation in the energy sector and the first one to have components
other than power. The first IDA Credit (386-JO) of 310.2 million together
with a loan from the Kuwait Fund was used to finance new power generating
capacity. The second IDA Credit (570-Jo) of $5.0 million co-financed with the
Arab Fund also assisted in capacity increases, as well as a power sector
development study which provided the basis fnr the third and fourth power
projects. The first and second projecta have been completed and are operating
satisfactorily. A project completion report and a project performance audit
report covering both projects have been circulated to the Executive Directors
on March 29, 1982 (SecN82-264). The reports conclude that, in fulfilling the
principal project objectives, the beneficiary (JEA) has exceeded the
expectations of the appraisal reports and that both institutional and
financial performance have been satisfactory. The reports recommend that the
Bank maintain its focus on JEA's degree of autonomy and its ability to retain
competent staff. The third project, assisted by a $15 million Bank loan
(1688-JO), aims at an expansion of JEA's transmission network and the
electrification of 39 villages in Central Jordan. Implementation has been on
schedule and without major problems,the project is completed and the Loan
fully disbursed. The fourth project, assisted by a $25 million Bank loan
(1986-Jo) and a loan from the Kuwait Fund, is designed to improve transmission
and distribution in urban and rural (50 villages) areas. Implementation by
JEA and JEPCO is underway. The recent fifth project, which with the aid of a
numNer of co-financiers will finance a large thermal power station at Aqaba,
would further contribute to institutional objectives and needs of JEA
identified under previous operations, in particular its ability to attract and
retain qualified staff and certain aspects of financial autonomy. In addition
it would strengthen the dialogue with the country in energy planning, demand
management, and fuel pricing policies. The proposed project would initiate
Bank involvement in petroleum exploration, energy conservation, renewable
energy, and energy planning while further supporting power distribution.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Proiject_Histor
32.      As a follow-up on the recommendations of the Energy Sector Study, the
proposed project was identified in November 1982 and prepared by the
Government thereafter with Bank assistance. It was appraised in April 1983.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., during October 24-28, 1983. The
Jordanian delegation was headed by Dr. Hanna Odeb, President, National
Planning Council (NPC), and included representatives of Natural Resources
Authority (NRA), Jordanian Electric Power Company (JEPCO), and Irbid District
Electricity Company (IDECO). A Staff Appraisal report entitled "Jordan Energy
Development Project," (No. 4626-JO), dated November 14, 1983, is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the
loan and project are given in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of
this Report and in Annex III. Maps showing the project sites are attached.
Project Objectives
33.      The main objectives of the proposed Project are:  (i)  to support key
investments for the improvement of Jordan's overall energy efficiency and
power subsector development; (ii) to integrate external assistance in the
energy sector into a consistent plan of action for the development of the
sector; and (iii) to ensure that the critical elements (data, models,
training, pilot projects, prefeasibility and investment studies) needed for
the formulation of a comprehensive long-term plan are available by 1985.
Project Description
34.      Power Distribution Component.  This component would assist the
Jordanian Electric Power Company (JEPCO) and the Irbid District Electricity
Company (IDECO) in implementing their development program for 1983-86. It
involves: (a) extension and reinforcement of the urban distribution networks
in JEPCO's and IDECO's concession areas; (b) extension of the public supply of
electricity to about 20 villages in JEPCO's concession area and 55 villages in
IDECO's concession area; and (c) consultant services to strengthen the
capabilities of IDECO's staff in financial planning and control and to assist
JEPCO in the preparation of designs and bids, the evaluation of tenders and
the supervision of construction.
35.      Petroleum Exploration Component.  This component would cover the cost
of a program aimed at strengthening the National Resources Authority's (NRA)
technical capabilities for undertaking the geological work required to plan
and implement an exploration drilling program, and to prepare packages that
would attract international oil companies. Four elements would be involved:
(a) training of NRA's staff; (b) provision of consulting services;
(c) purchase of equipment and material; and (d) advanced reprocessing of
geological data. NRA has agreed to consult with the Bank on the results of
these programs prior to implementation (NRA Project Agreement, Section 2.08).
36.      Energy Conservation Component.  This component will cover the
acquisition by the National Planning Council (NPC) of equipment for laboratory



- 12 -
and field use to determine the energy efficiency of capital equipment such as
boilers and heat exchangers. It will include consulting services for
undertaking energy audits and project preparation in about 10 selected
industries with potential for energy saving. The component will also cover
short-term training abroad and 18 months of advisory services.
37.      Renewable Energy Component.  This component would involve consultant
services, training for the Royal Scientific Society (RSS) staff, and the
acquisition of equipment to further the development of alternative energy
sources, particularly solar energy. It would comprise resource assessment,
planning, pilot/demonstration schemes, and training.
38.      Energy Planning Component.  This component would help strengthen the
Government's energy planning activities so that it can formulate comprehensive
energy policies and coordinate the implementation of plans for the development
of the sector.   It would consist of the acquisition of computer equipment,
technical assistance and short-term training. The component would involve the
following main tasks: (i) load research and management study for the power
subsector; (ii) development of an energy data base; (iii) feasibility study
for converting power generation plants to combined cycle plants; (iv)
formulation of policy for demand management; and (vi) a study for the
formulation of an optimal tax structure for petroleum products.
Project Implementation
39.      The overall responsibility for project implementation would be
entrusted to the newly created Energy Planning Unit (EPU) at the National
Planning Council (NPC) which would also implement the energy planning and
conservation components. EPU was created following the recommendations of the
Bank's energy sector review and would be strengthened under the proposed
project. EPU's responsibilities include the planning of energy development,
the coordination and supervision of activities in energy conservation and
renewable energy, and the construction of an energy data base. NPC is a
well-organized autonomous Government agency responsible for the formulation of
long-term economic plans and coordination of official external assistance. It
is headed by a president, directly responsible to the Read of Government.
40.      The power distributiot. component would be implemented by JEPCO and
IDECO. JEPCO is a privately r*wned company headed by an l-member Board of
Directors. It is well-organized, and, in general, the 1,470 staff members are
well-qualified. JEPCO distributes electricity in an area of about 2,000 km2
covering the city of Amman and its environs. IDECO is a semi-private company
headed by an 11-member Board. It employs 604 people, and is reasonably
well-managed. Its service covers a concessionary area encompassing the
Governorate of Irbid. IDECO has agreed to employ by June 30, 1984,
consultants acceptable to the Bank to outline a plan for strengthening
planning, management and control and then, after taking into account Bank
comments, to implement this plan not later than January 31, 1986, (IDECO
Project Agreement, Section 3.04). Only the power distribution component of
the Project has required consulting services prior to appraisal. These
services involved preliminary and detailed design of the network, the
specification of equipment and estimation of costs which were prepared by
Kennedy and Donkin, and Preece, Cardew and Rider, both UK firms, for JEPCO and



- 13 -
IDECO respectively.  The petroleum exploration component would be implemented
by the Petroleum Department (PD) of NRA. NRA is a Government agency
responsible for the exploration for and development of minerals, hydrocarbons
and underground water. NRA will be strengthened by the recruitment of experts
according to a timetable to be agreed with the Bank (NRA Project Agreement,
Section 2.02). These experts would include a seismic specialist, a petroleum
geologist and a drilling and production engineer. PD oversees all oil-related
activities. The energy conservation component would be implemented by the EPU
with the assistance of a consulting firm with proven experience in energy
conservation. NPC will recruit staff for EPU with experience in energy
conservation and renewable energy. The renewable energy component would be
implemented by the Solar Energy Department at RSS with the assistance of
consultants and coordinated by the EPU. The Government would strengthen the
capabilities of EPU's renewable energy staff through a relevant training
program. RSS was established in 1970 to promote applied research aimed at
development. It is well-organized and has a qualified staff of 430
employees. Policy is set by a Board of Trustees chaired by the Crown Prince.
A Director General administers the organization through a system of
directorates. Overall, the proposed project is ready for procurement in all
components and is expected to be completed by the end of 1986.
Financial Performance of JEPCO and IDECO.
41.      JEPCO's past financial performance has been satisfactory.  Its
self-financing level was 30 percent of construction requirements in 1981 and
about 50 percent in 1982; JEPCO agreed under Loan 1986-JO to generate funds
covering at least 25 percent of construction requirements in 1982 and 1983 and
at least 35 percent in 1984 and thereafter. JEPCO's pretax rates of return on
revalued assets were 9.5 percent in 1981 and 8.4 percent in 1982 and the
corresponding returns after a 38.5 percent corporate tax were 5.8 percent in
1981 and 5.2 percent in 1982. Its debt/equity ratio which was 26/74 in 1981
and 29/71 in 1982 indicates a sound equity base. With an average 21 percent
increase in JEPCO's revenues from January 1, 1984, through compensation by the
Government for losses incurred for rural electricity and streetlighting
services and with a further increase in the average revenues of about 2
percent from January 1, 1985, JEPCO would be able to generate at least 35
percent of the construction requirements internally as required under Loan
1986-Jo. It is estimated that with these increases the after-tax rate of
return on revalued assets would be around 6 percent during 1983-85. During
the period 1983-1988, JEPCO's debt/equity ratio would be between 41/59 and
54/46, which is acceptable. The current ratio during the period would be
between 1.3 and 1.6, which is also acceptable. JEPCO has agreed to maintain a
self-financing ratio of at least 25 percent in 1983, and at least 35 percent
in 1984 and thereafter (JEPCO Project Agreement, Section 4.03). JEPCO has
agreed to obtain the Bank's prior approval for any new long-term borrowing
unless the net revenue less proposed dividends for each year during the term
of the debt (before depreciation and interest) is at least equal to 1.5 times
the projected debt service requirement for such a year, on all its debt,
including the debt to be incurred (JEPCO Project Agreement, Section 4.05).
JEPCO would issue additional shares in light of its capital expenditures; it
would consult with the Bank, each fiscal year during project implementation,



- 14 -
on the amount of shares to be issued and the timing of the issue (JEPCO
Project Agreement, Section 4.06). By end September 1984, JEPCO would operate
a system for monitoring its technical and financial performance.
42.      IDECO's financial performance has been generally satisfactory.
During 1980-1982, IDECO had an average annual rate of growth in sales of atc .t
19 percent. Its pretax rate of return on unrevalued assets has been betwee,
7.3 percent and 11 percent between 1980 and 1982.  The rate of return durirg
this period, after a 38.5 percent corporate tax, was between 5.3 percent ard
6.8 percent. However, as opposed to satisfactory cash generation levels
through 1980, its average net internal cash generation was sufficient to meet
only about 5 percent of its construction requirements in 1981 and 9 percent in
1982. This decline was mainly due to IDECO's heavy investments in rural
electrification. As of 1984 its cash generation is expected to increase to 20
percent. Until 1980, its assets were primarily financed through investors'
equity. At the end of 1980, its debt/equity ratio was 27/73. During 1981 and
1982, its expansion program was financed through borrowings and its
debt/equity ratio as of December 31, 1982, was 65/35. Therefore, it would be
prudent to finance a part of IDECO's expansion program through equity. IDECO
has issued additional shares of about JD 1 million face value, and private
investors have purchased about one-third of the shares. Understandings have
been reached with the Government that it would purchase the unsold shares.
IDECO's accounts receivable during the past two years have been high at about
two months' sales because of slow billing and bill collection. IDECO has
agreed to streamline billing procedures in order to reduce the accounts
receivable to not more than six weeks' sales. Also, in order to safeguard its
interest against defaults by customers it has agreed to collect customer
security deposits covering sales for two months (IDECO Project Agreement,
Section 4.05). IDECO would take all measures to maintain a self-financing
ratio of 20 percent through 1988 and 30 percent in 1989 and thereafter;
measures to this end would be periodically reviewed with the Bank (IDECO
Project Agreement, Section 4.03). The rate of return on IDECO's revalued
aaisets would be about 6 percent. Additionally, IDECO has agreed to obtain the
Bank's prior approval for new long-term borrowing unless the net revenue less
proposed dividends for each year during the term of the debt (before
depreciation and interest) is at least equal to 1.5 times the projected debt
service requirement for each year, on all debt including the debt to be
incurred (IDECO Project Agreement, Section 4.04).
Accounts and Audit
43.      The accounts of JEPCO and IDECO are satisfactory.  As agreed under
Loan 1986-JO, JEPCO's accounts are audited by independent auditors and their
past performance has been satisfactory. Under the proposed Project the audit
arrangements for JEPCO would be maintained. IDECO would appoint independent
auditors and submit yearly audit reports to the Bank. In order to monitor the
financial management and control of the exploration component, NRA would keep
separate accounts, appoint independent auditors to audit the accounts and
submit yearly audit reports to the Bank. NPC would keep separate accounts for
the energy conservation, renewable energy and energy planning components,
appoint independent auditors to audit the accounts, and submit yearly audit
reports to the Bank.



- 15 -
Project Cost and Financing Plan
44.      The total cost of the proposed Project, including physical and price
contingencies, is $67.0 million (in mid-1983 prices) of which about $45
million is in foreign exchange. Cost estimates do not include import duties
and taxes, from which the project is exempt. The cost breakdown by components
is given in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report. The
Project cost includes physical contingencies (5 percent) for only the power
distribution component since all other components primarily involve relatively
small amounts for highly specialized equipment, and consulting services and
studies. The physical contingencies are calculated in light of the standard
design and the repetitive nature of the power distribution component in which
significant deviations are not expected. The price contingencies correspond
to about 18 percent of the base cost increased by the physical contingencies.
The price contingencies for the local costs are based on an increase of about
8 percent each year, 1983 through 1986. The price contingencies for the
foreign exchange cost of the Project are 8 percent for 1983, 7.5 percent for
1984, 7 percent for 1985 and 6 percent for 1986. The cost of expatriate
consultant services has been estimated at $10,000 to $15,000 per man-month
including salary, fee, overhead, international travel and subsistence.
45.      The proposed Bank loan of $30 million would finance about 45 percent
of the total cost. The balance would be financed by the Government ($3.2
million), JEPCO and IDECO ($31.0 million) bilateral and multilateral sources
($2.8 million). The proposed loan would be applied towards the foreign
exchange costs of all of the components but mainly to power distribution. The
multilateral and bilateral contributione are listed in the Loan and Project
Summary, in the beginning of this report. EEC and UNDP would contribute to
the energy planning component, USAID would contribute to energy planning,
conservation and renewable energy components, and the Italian Government would
contribute to the renewable energy component. The proposed Bank loan would be
made to the Government. The portion of the loan covering the power
distribution component would be relent by the Government to IDECO ($8.0
million) and JEPCO ($13.5 million) under the same terms as the proposed loan.
The foreign exchange risks arising from the subsidiary loans would be borne by
JEPCO and IDECO. The onlending rate would be positive in real terms as the
current domestic inflation rate is about 7 percent per annum. Signing of the
subsidiary loan agreements would be a special condition of effectiveness (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01). The Government would finance energy efficiency
audits and studies of which the beneficiaries are selected industries. The
Government would recover the cost of these studies through procedures to be
established in consultation with the Bank. The Government would secure
co-financiers' loans by end 1984, and provide any outstanding amount from its
own resources (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). Retroactive financing of up to
$200,000 is recommended to cover expenditures incurred after November 1, 1983,
on consultant fees. This would enable rapid action on energy audits under the
energy conservation component.
Procurement and Disbursement
46.      Equipment ($19.3 million) and installation/erection ($5.8 million)
contracts for power distribution would be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB). Specialized geological equipment costing



- 16 -
$2 million in aggregate, for which there are only a limited number of
suppliers, would be procured through limited international tendering. In the
comparison of bids obtained under ICB, local manufacturers would be allowed a
margin of preference equal to the existing rate of customs duties applicable
to competing imports or 15 percent of the CIF price, whichever is lower.
About 900 man-months of consultant services for the petroleum exploration,
power distribution, energy conservation, energy planning and renewable energy
components, would be procured according to the Bank's Guidelines for
Consultants. JEPCO would use force account work for installation/erection of
small and dispersed items which are not suitable for ICB and which are not
being financed by the Bank. The proposed Bank loan to be disbursed over 4
years would cover 100 percent of foreign exchange expenditures or ex-factory
cost respectively, of directly imported or locally manufactured equipment; 100
percent of foreign exchange expenditures on consultant services; 75 percent of
total expenditures on the energy conservation advisor; and 40 percent of total
expenditures on installation and erection of power distribution equipment.
The loan closing date would be December 31, 1987.
Benefits and Risk
47.      The principal benefit of the project is the assistance it will
provide to the Government to initiate a comprehensive and coordinated action
program in the energy sector for the first time. Given Jordan's high degree
of dependence on imported energy, this is a crucial step which is overdue.
The need for such an action program was highlighted in the Bank's energy
sector review. The establishment of an energy planniug unit as the focal
point of an action program was recommended. The Government created the
planning unit and requested the Bank's assistance in preparing and launching a
comprehensive program. Given its knowledge of Jordan's energy sector, the
Bank is well-placed to provide this assistance. The benefits of the project
derive from power distribution, efficient oil exploration, energy savings
through better planning and future retrofitting of industries, as well as from
development of renewable energy. Benefits from the power distribution
component have been quantified; the considerable benefits from the other
components are not quantifiable.
48.      The power distribution component (76 percent of base cost) would
support the rural development objectives of the Government, result in a net
saving to the economy and mobilize resources for the power subsector by
allowing JEPCO and IDECO to extend their services to new consumers which would
reduce the consumption of light- and middle-petroleum distillates now used for
household purposes. In addition, losses at the distribution level would also
be reduced. The distribution component is part of a least cost development
program. The composite economic rate of return for this component would be
12.9 percent, based on the quantifiable costs and benefits associated with the
investment and measured over its expected economic life. The rates of return,
calculated separately for JEPCO and IDECO investments, would be 16.4 percent
and 8.4 percent respectively. The above rates of return compare with the
opportunity cost of capital of 10 percent. The low rate of return on IDECO's
investment reflects the fact that 80 percent of IDECO's distribution is in
rural areas with a relatively high cost of service. The rural power
investments, however, would yield unquantifiable social benefits. They
constitute part of a broader action plan for encouraging rural development and
controlling migration to urban centers.



- 17 -
49.      No risks are anticipated in the implementation of the proposed
project other than those normally associated with petroleum exploration.
However, the project is multi-faceted and will require a high degree of
coordination by the newly created Energy Planning Unit in NPC. Given NPC's
demonstrated success in matters requiring interdepartmental coordination, and
the Government's commitment for maintaining a strong energy plann!ng unit this
requirement would be met.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.      The Loan Agreement between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the
Bank, the Project Agreement between the Bank and the Jordanian Electric Power
Company, the Project Agreement between the Bank and the Irbid District
Electricity Company, the Project Agreement between the Bank and the Natural
Resources Authority and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section IV (iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
given in Section III of Annex III. As an additional condition of
effectiveness, the Government would sign subsidiary loan agreements with JEPCO
and IDECO.
51.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
52.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By
Ernest Stern
Attachments
November 14, 1983
Washington, D.C.



BDaa WEPT AVAIUBLE                                                      of 6
- 18 -
TA PL X A
;gocla               TA  3Wt TofflK9 AIKRa'o  LI
~a~(SS W L    . U )                        97.7   77         7.
C^tCULtU               t2 E        I4.V      16**  £42.0 Ie    W460.0                    20U,2
UphICI?  c Uir  Ul)_
mummY 021111JIUfl66 Ni Chink1151 wv oww
P0PULtIUN.N1~~~~~~~~~~~~lK   joissutOll ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    2299.0  3370.0~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~jo  C
POI'ULAlN  rmoJsCtluJN                                       6.7Y  O
ETTOAYPOPU     LATION   (WILL                              17.TIS6.
POPULATI0M IN WAd 2000 (hItLL)
EA STATIONAM POA ITOP.                                   2110A
YUg~~~~~~~~~~~~~0, sTAslo Pot II.s  (,PI,                                       A
POPULATION DENSIT_ITIJ
PA   R (roSQ. lO.  1) 7.3                         23.3      9                  3.0                         .
PrD SQ   N     . LAND            132.4       1642        21.               661.0                     93.2
ACILICULTUR"                    1692.0            t340.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.
o OPUo TION AGE STCu UCTUR  ()                     6        46.3                                       5.40 81
U-14 YIRS                              51.^ 51 0         a1l               52.
.RW  olr CDAL to, 1V3,1 T.
65 AND ABOVE                       4.1         3.1         2.1                                        6.1
POPULATION  GROWTH RAtE ( 1)         5 z          44b
kTOTAL                             3.1         3.0         3.5               2.                       2.3o
CRUDE BIRTHt RAtE (PER mHOOS)       37.         47.6        4b5625                                     31.52 
6.7~ ~~~.
p DUjXrU#LI RATE (PE  1M0LL)     199          1           .0                20                        .
ROSS noAY DUCTION RATE                           3.        1.
FAHILY PLTANIONGRY PPHDOS.
USERS (2 OF IlARRE3 2OolE N
NUX SF O         . PER CAPITA      220.0        79.0        71.0 2
sacUINS  (RI 5uPoFUER t OAT        61.         53.        6 2.0           7e2.03                      67.9
0F s IIIIC AGRIAL AND Y           5          1 *                           17 2.1
CltILD (AGES 1-4) OEATH.RAT         26.3        12.3         5.4            13.                        5.3
iNFANpLTI T A RgrTATE(PEUTUR (S)   135.5      I5l                            104.2                     62. 6
TDtA                               4J.           *- TR./C- I7564
51.5  51:0  51,1         3.3~~~~~~~~~7.
&CCESS TO SAN   ATR(PO)              2.3t                    00.0/                                      4
URBAND                               2.1                                                             2
TOTAL               48.0                      ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   37.5 
ACCESS TO EXCEETA DiSPOSAL.
(2 OU POPULATIN ) KsRTIcE                                                      *-                      69.6
TOTAL                                                                                                29.S
UR B   A N                                                                    .
P   PI N5800.  390.0    1690.           31530 °022
POPUI. ATION                                                                                           1776.03
amos     EPRDu TiPE     A TpYEIMi3.I          1 8 .        3 00it.
POP. PER NURSING  PERSON          1      _
POP. PER FoSPITROD  P              560 0      135.0       1190.016                        667 5
( U99-1-00                                    155O oi9   l                  U2012.3
TOADISOlS                                                                                            47 OPrLHD.   65 4   8Z.7.0
AV EUL C Ep A     SUPPL Y   OF    HOUSEHOLO5 36100.0         6                                         67.
URBAN                                      5560.0
RURAL               .T                                                   246
CADRIgSSIO LAS PER HOSPITALBED                  3.5       15.C/6i66                                      7.
AVERAGE SIE0. OFUPERSONS/OO6H                                6.7/c
TOTAL                             5. 
URBAN                5.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~175 2b.
RURAL''                                                     ''*'
ACCESS TO ELECT. (1                 139 6EI5 *              6690/c
TOTAL                              .                                      16.2
URBAN                                i.           .        3.0c               0.



BEST COPY AVAILABE
ANNEX I
-19 -                                           Page 2of 6
IT A 0 L it m
JOmUL                       -l E--     (eKEEon    lEx D LUEN 
16oh    na   MI?OI                       (PCI RUEENT EIsAseI #c.
6OL      ,,,L                     "aW icDlon   INCOrs
it         4§toL  l"T>^0          "- btWIEDULI  ME At    - L6T ItC  CARa S
ADJUITED RMtOLLKINT RATISE
PRMAYi   TAL                      77.0        72.0k      10.0r              n.G                      105.0
HALE                    34.0       7t.0:         .,              104.6                    106,3
Fr>AL!                  5s.0        6S.t          ..              12.4                    103.6
ICONIARYI TOTAL                   25.0        33 O           O7             41.7                      40.0
MALI             ~~~~~36.0O  611.1          .32.6                                    36,6
FINAL                  13.0         24.O0i        .3. 1.2                                  41.2
VOCATION. (St OP SCONDARY)           1.7         2.0k       l3.O0a            10.3                      34.0
PUM-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           34.0        59.0LO      32.0G             31.g                      30.7
ItCONDARY                         20.0        2S.07j      2D0.0o            23.3                      14.7
LDULL  LlTIRACY RtAVT (2)           32.4          ,,         70.0             43.3                      79.5
PAIRBENR CARI/TNOUSAND POP           3.7         6.7        i9.y±             16.0                      43.6
RADIO RtCEtIVRSITNOUSMD pop         37.8       160.9       163.              138.1                     228.2
TV RnCEIVE THUAW Por                  ..        20.         32.7              45.6                     108.3
NEUSPAPER  DAILY GENERIAL
INTERESrT) CIRCULATION
PCR TOUAND POPULATION              15.3        24.4        2t,3fd            31.0                      64.1
CIRA ANNUAL ATTENDCE/CAPITA          3.2         0.9         4,1               1.7                       2.9
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOU)           432.0       30s.0       s00.0
RACLU (PERCENT)                     30         5.)         6.6              10.7                      24.8
SICRI3LTORE (PERCENT)             44.0        34.0        20.0              42.5                      31.3
Im USTrnt (PERCENT)               26.0         9.0        20.0              27.6                      23.9
PARTICIPATION RATt (PERCENT)
TOrAL                              25.3       24.7         23.7             25.6                      31.3
MALE                              46.7        45.3        43.4              45.4                      49.8
FrA9LE                             2.7         2.6         3.2               3.6                      14.8
ECONctIC DEPtNDRUC  RATIO            1.9         2.0         2.1               1.8                       1.4
3WSU DIUSTITIIII
PERCENT oF PRIVATE INCOIE
RECEtIVED 3W
HINCtUT fl oF NOmEN.L.S
TICHEST 2CR or HOUSEHOLDS           ..
LOSEST 20e OF HOuEsIOS              ..
LOWEST 402 O0 HOUSEIIOLS             ..
ESTINATS) ASlSMtUST POVERTY INCOI
LcvEL (US6 PER CAPITA)
iRII,                               ..          ..       230.0td           276.1                     289.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       io.o71           177.1                     1U.5
ESTIMATED RCLATIVE POVERTY INCUS
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          *-       206.0td           400.0                     519.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       xss.o71           263.3                     372.1
ESTIMATED POP. RELOW AESMu.Tr
POVERTY INCCE  LEVEL (I)
U BAN                               ..           .        14.0              22.0
RUR=L                               ..          ..        17.0              30.8 
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICAiLE
N O T r. 5
/a  The group averqae  for eaeh Indicator are populationr bghted arithlatlc man..  Coverqe of countriea  among the
fndlictor. depende on flallabtlity of date and is not mndferm.
/lb  Unlisn otherwiue noted, 'Date for 1966' refer to any year boten 1959 and 1961: 'Data for 1970' betwen 1969 and
1971; and data for M1loat Recent Eativte' between 1979 and 1981.
/c East Bank. 1982; Id 1977; /e 1982; If 1962; /I Includes preparatory age
12-14 years.
May 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                                                                                                           ANNEX I
-e20 -                                                                     I    Pase34-of6
ut  sese    essseitc.sesIm    i oFlo A  ceesSa   1"s  -9P   eiI  sStladI                Aeegu   snn wt   mfe  hillemceS"n   hwSecese   ese   h
cableS  ewes ec icteepl  me suet tweet ~~~r Liermecce Brew, flare  Clille 1Mm. SmIth MeAteeee 551 Cliii. hiss  is"cheese is ofeets ;.1    iree Ie .0cscls 1e
ilsSSei.' is the  Ire.eses.el-p lawsShe woorifl et         eseis   eialhel ucagsettS. soeet ler sac  tellastel MMl whet eel, Sme asle            es the eessie  ince
ceptern lets rae Stsil ssS1s1l..  lief Its SeWerlew er aeeetlms ae      She  IANRItsia Sl  Amleieude an the  16161$ ofleilS   ml t Vsi   tool le olstism. nal Its mawt ft
smereissil    "IIs slt m  ecscer"     .1 me leite#otte   Se  eshs. IMmcmVE" eauea   en P estraesitoS eeNPeulu  c. twice No me ini1*eeScel te  lift .cwn Ph meeter cmi
esiseecame sleeps.
MhteiifA-    1SeS  ml eeulciSciet1 of" ened tsepsriel  cr psemosaeiStIIls  ew i eti4ins swum.. aieietami seeim, recede   seem "                               cmi
tes clSw  1 lt.                                                                    bbi*LlU.SL*U148L1S.±.WALof.aellipL4M.stsl e ,  Nlets. tImild,
e-Stiw.  INl reSell 1111C aim    ll r,e    d".Sliehusu.  arheitiA
alU   lthL      lS      lppiacSecilesFe   ces    sipie.0)                                         twetleilsist*  #1ahil.eel prlsute easse  cmI asleiclieioo  taeepteip cmi1
lets.  *                                                               cal~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.d  ee ose   StAnd.  tIIFN  1rte ln.lis  SwlmeS1. Ic dHs hecille so
cuuirn1         wspS    dJAemcnl eOpIlcN  -Wei.Npssi  e esimsl .spoSe ems pseseiesl   5rrdm  Num a I owe a. lieS Up a eeldeta
and 0uahsSsci  lciaIse55hiSecm   clseccipi aspcstpesals milslsieces  l sispl  ccSiti.  P*  s,Ctl.flSi peepsee
le"elp"  "   Is1 ...                                                                   cie  hempilias lcials Cisi preiwipsutemmlcl1 heerstila. ci Pepeci
ieic, melee tel                                                       heapllels. iweel cu estal hemplicle eel fissi ad eaSclslIir isI'ismee.i"i "d oferolp veeers
mniha                                                                                           dr!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~siinasclhsaci   l  i -Ied   el  Roger side.
mti)- As ci caSe is itt1. StISS. cm mA lhsasLLieIeiS* iltae   ci aaeclns cc al Almherese
VA41. Of wrb" P. 0.imeeTiiIIiWiCWcSte  eehe  ci  eEm
a.m.a  c,.cSceel  Ces,  ic, el lee  itta.s  ,=   _    .  1-    OIn                       dI Efi~t Ad%. -.rI.  Atsemem        ldea           BYm   b    111pd1
rat.".    njavi  - Camo.eatec  pwpicsil motpeion  eselm.  See -NF    ce.cltmeSswl.Aheeemedi&5sMeAecr  mi he teldl  aeos
lee.  caps c  e    . a.P cml em ca  hiro  IfteSelis? asi Smisvii                          the he.AP.mecilalskecac Is   11  seu%pe,e.19to ."       "fo  f
rutacee   -watr.umc   m psmelec  e . eetlV.  euccek      e   ci  see's                   5.cfcm  auNts. Pople seJ.mt.rjaelwen
sepicSi    to is.cl I m I eels  isisrd!" eee. i"ae 41 mtshiS iseCS.1                lelq,"epeisi1ielies5m                         me-sce1e,tacei   e
embses 1s c    1mctcit   ee pl reiblsearts  Ipe pet.jwtles psapse.                 ci icSai. uraie,cl.  eced    muScseepssmV.
i1iiii~iiiiicseqlo a       c 1thsor  p"leaS  rss  eel elm she s
aNe. acre le    to. cc  keiasS. This am a too.md   0 sa l cSe  et o lIc  esim
lemlEs. is theespiaweecS  i..i .1 awlS aS lspdml4im ats tluc                                   -  do%jjmj - alme   mcL,I ecim MMl toerse
cci s      .-ecle m  w e eepl..c cccl  escett l.  tie  iceiiar                       eees mew  e  aWL-d  pps iVlhWjilewo 0 mam i psitsesle  .1d ucptim
tel 1m   r 55, pspice IIs its th  ie yga  Po, MIi Its Vol. cr iselil-c                      e aseinSou  adjcustd Ouse lllcesi  seethe ci Puiesir' alacmtici he
tees stat  IVie is epiParsees  laeSe.                                                        emcem    ist cetteuel leuis   aie"i  i                = es  see  ls psicect
hetjia.ieace, msictiL..w  Cc amte  - its  ecef acp  sataceere                             miece cin  Ppeil. cifa hei, me  the . cia ccricle   seem  AM.
PspsieSiee  Iti, mii t     -icee.mrsiiatut ttt   cmsdlei    Cmpessl  na.tursl meeelerv
tmftati!csiaii-el                                                                                 des  neccece   mc  ia  Icce  Ri Pp,-" plies, lameS icsR
IWlAc. kamt sea Rod ee data.                                                       Pupra  cmemIly ci Is ic It lean ci ass e-rmeep..aee FRMea, eec
iiTj~TliS7thiliiUtUlIe.. ~mpkdMb-fa   rr.1 1La                                      Ycittlf.critV  cSiwl-       e    i  celrc      eacec.eeias
k    ylt  31j'tebtiuaissjiteti-cus  ii   eeS.criscm   i-Iil  teseCct Aimlsii,e  ccle  p m5lmm  Ci    epeetie imcc
i~i17iiFfiiIiIii   Remu     adilee. cc-1 pentc     wiel-yace-N                     ici   .unl1rsse   3saaie Mstiasm .   "aa   nom
pemiactees Same. itee    ant--,) e el itwi- Isis,            .rfPt Ifrl!itlI lx¶.*.!.flefL..I.d                                  lo-tcsieir ce   meidc
.AhulMJau-ia rtisiJuisfh...ti-  .ctsewl rti c   ca  m-iimesiid#fii lTlWW                                                               mtse    lassm   eiscp
Imetieti   h he a   the  - Mecti muisih flies ci metes~~~~~~~~~~~~mi-                                      I
ma, itemS.      -  is                                                       unm.c..a.a.mt.n.I 4nu1    Utwuacir 1g1ts  chi   otor ic   m kl wi... m
ecpstwi seem is. Idle-wa  icsua-yt. ad  lcPc-5t.                      ee~~~~~~~~~~~~.seIftccmeeSctiea.l pesiacSun4 tadlt it.b.eu  Cii fesI.   ri
Cuusla 119th Pate 35r LSe.ascicd S - ammi Siam hiuActs psi ctmmsascaiIR -kodm--
ieee pspeicnit.,itM, peal,  dtteem lice
Cu~tih hemteet.          ei       m  deethe Pae theimadd me sil-de                              aAN lemmefu  asle  me
pepctcegihe,lSS.ci   m  Ie.                                                                   c.met cmm 5  c    m tpeims5ci 1                   d.eaee   banaime sad
Ne.mrUdselceteelghee   P- ms.  wait c1 .JHi..cc.c.um emelmAW-iii see 5cstiSSle ca. Sun
-W.,s  --jie IfI,a  ude     e.dsicems ptecaeepeilS wde.  erts.t)ieaccn      t  tepee !ci  vlemiteem  Icee-t
I vtc-scutlSt.ai  seepicea-U .1 mueei,p am tee                                               meeseul. me,111= a  doit.l imswil,c.     .m,  Wbplferb.    m
allmerisa ,c.  ccc.Ae tce.                          follySa, .  'S'.ctcccl                                                          ail.m   thm.is cMa"
sacici mesdmltc cia         .d-ciSe.pdcce   sw cm d cm                                         .i   459  3i  pse   aSm    int  tm    a. -ci.                 ?
meeeis.adaMead   Au sSIc = diii. tel am-ies -fmc            I(..-.- ethe    i  imic  the -e. e.. e.im   iimie  is lac-i   ic- 
ir.e  telihi  icpimeip    leseia   edaes . spetieO.    (..e                                  psielaie cft i Atee" .    eiseme   esu   snu                 i   e
epertm   mel etisis ..WSm eth,  Ca mamleel.   a    ism.I       tds,mmkteie  IsiS IA                          e  m    li icte
quntiic  mci te .icci 1 pte.emec          p:dtJo  .   -h Liee  5wriateieciI. Pj3Jwct..                           caeii    ue  mpuece   i  cc   sslr
-meecwtwcu  wt.mdh P.M--  teed me SS.reiciestei mm. i.e escte ce                                     c    -LheeteIcieic   mety   ecc   m
aeteeiy ad   ealth  tmllaies;      1 sswuemcic  tweuit. hedy  asi.filiiiiiii   .1  eclkmlet   ices -it.i. t-"ic el   5ils  alc."
atemaSe  seititi   m  pscisse.  d siciw    "tr Paeyc i.ePit. ParrSna,i.- amrle..e seSe  ee-cclc   aeiieet
itl s    1eh bl meshIL it-upoStlle adeits.t Prleotis   .lw.      1                                   me"l te  tfi,qm a tee smi 5a   cm  runite c  isttet  omfe  icti 
lee-,ected easIly      A. seetel   ee   rI.   - retestls   c.I. mmi ci perd mepltm               5510l.  lug. itmi   ct..   lf 
4-  ttmti m   a  ptly.htseu,    ted  i iANclloadics.                                         ec-'tt Ion.hi  leutecit -o tforl wae. Prmidisel up eett.csiob"   s
Pcsmp= eetm.cifr. ..     ioAecemeah   me   eita    eciS.17    e bditdeteIthm. a We r-   ts' PeT.ietsea
V   b"ttk  -t!I" Im.ums wi  ..  pcii.eli                                     mml tht.I1.te jatim   eee-ew mircas cF mthe labreps.IetAe . cciIe1 teal teed.t.A
mliieipeti -` -WL     ccybute sne MOitto thed ema -I. m Inec P.-h  C.,set                     c  eaeet.tci  its ate               deem l.   ftua"            ff.w
ft,     ee  ee  kneettC             P,tl     "Isese  'te' il.-I.    .  pr-.1.                     ie .s.da lo   t dtac-5tm.1rpite  teI   d5                         aec
"tSI sewsI-. ) hsst  Ian (ewe    .iced) b- -ulamed  aesihe pee SiweasI em                   NieiilF rAtc; I.e.. Theai t. ccmhd hin -t. 1,cee ptedip lete"a
-l1 see, -A puae.s.  te.  eidee Bar this -see sem sen   d b1st -mcImetsemi                   l.ecs  etchet- atS I.ee.e Naioalti   l  ete   e  fecs5 
Islk"t heeis  Came=1. !eVlcnet-   etlsh1 sr- itets- meI.lee meoteiisemwvctS   aemtIt                                                           ip e)-cries,    P-usalt
-matese etc pcr heasd itrm lciftt  itaem14. tien ad   lset dcc,.                             S.emmlmld.tspw. ytm    mc  cteie.me   es   id      i
etmec ci 55Cc htse irnemet it' smeeletias) - escet. cetee. eel nest -   ettilimelty adetatet Item  pie esmattet meacted teamleesre Sc sea
T  -m1   m  p%,w -.Pwspsimet  sie   e a st) set  aeemoSce uptw   is meascielts
mecceeimcl  nSetsca  cc hemire )  prtetal. heeti.  ptc.W       mci                   tmluiei-L lcs tmejetsame eis  isN.1. eec shid ciRepreses pe  emptW
Votal c 91 he  1ay le, amtlrel  eisw    ics   ceselsac. mlr cisc                           itt-eel tIcewlasin he_1- Lc   jmie  c            Ieittme las   mcstl-eIc
flue  ml ih  hemeici-am eNo thatf     rot brlem. Ieplaictmemtepecamt. osi               pW
mebee  met-ce      01 eelmet -miet  metr-tat. ee. sywimrs c  the em c pift                                                 ifemetcecmm   ettishci
peimice ml aesticea Sass fteilc.                                                                                                              het  51ude



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
....
P.pulalimi  35~l1 ~ 3                                                                 mmu                                   ~;. 
IN?paraepima9361Mm(1 "I iJJd
FOWMIS  3,Ul  It                                                                          1.1~103  061 lE  Lo6    lOll
'ma.  s  a pw~~~~~ume  lOll ~~~11.0    II.$             9.1    106.0      1.3     0.1           0.6      Goo        .3      30         .
AurImmIIu,m          10~~31                 I 1.0 3.   -19.6    39.6    11.3        9.9           3.6      01   .6  D.IG.               1.6
lujuamry           ~~~~1,010             2 3a.   a1.o      9.3    U1.      1.1.      IA          10.1      1.06      o.l       fee      1.01
krsia.s            3~~~~~,30161                   1 6.1    1 6411.9 le.1 6.9 41.1                            .6II   1. 6 *.   1.3       u.s
ammm,.pelaa       0,390                ~~~~~ ~~~~10.3    1:::    11.1    -106    0.3  .          0.                .:      .:
Irma. lmsem61mmm  1,196 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~136.1   16.5    11.1    10.3   .           -4.02.
lupeflm 6936           ~~~~1,511             19.1    16.0    MSA    30.1    33.9         1.3          0.1I    11.0      11.6      13.1      1.0
Iuporme "I 636                 0,111                 31.6      9.1    33.3    -1.1    31.3    -1.6           -3.0       5.9      0.1       0.5      0.9
Grose Na,Im.  ProbeSl          31,39                 13.1    116.3     1.1     0.0      6.3     1.0           1.3      0.1       3.0      0.6       0.6
ZIhIj,  3.llag,                                      01.6    13.6    63.1   160.6   110.5   131.1
Umehang. Pate                                    1   3.63    1. 31.31    3.1531.61    3.86
_ .ar  of W  al M*m Prima  (RI                                                  INCOMING
Or... Iinat(a Irsmam                                           906.0    160.1     9.1.                                       11.1             3.0
Lirleultut.                                 1~~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~.6  0.0  0.3                        11.1             0.1
30d.t,p                                    31~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.6  10.1  31.6                              04.1            11.1
S9.1 I   31.3    306.                                         10.9             3.1
Bar,~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ lam.;
o.m..~eim133.6    109.A    104.3                                9.3              .61
ow... 1tt, me, e                                 1.        3is.1   OA.3 a 3 1.1                           1,.0                           3 .6
Impure. of                                            3.1      13.3   01.9        30.3                                       10.1             9.1
IN"   a11of1G                                                  90.1     91.3      93.3                                       11.1             1.9
Om. Nat ional Praim                                           160.6    100.0    160.0                                         9.1             3.1
Not Pester                     *,11,                            6.1    4.6  -.1 . 
Grss     eaw, savings                        -23.1 -10.0                 3       .1
Ciaptil Uueiera                           22.0         U2.e         13.
Pomaut flumam:imue                        30.6         33.1          1.01
of .1..b furmim. gimts                  20.0         20.          111
9.1  LIME  3.0  5.9
Nar~~I.a1 Cams. Uselama1 
savings hot*                        -2.3           3.t
1/ ~ ~       ~        ~         ~       ~        | lame 3mbF amIp.@Z
I  xie awt smk ml                                                                                                         I.@.
1/  elrallulma   macine. bamad am tm rerimad aortas of eatismal. same.ntm  to be dimemammid with ibm Gomwinmmt  uhlab agaluim  tamitmam  fau lame
tram iaidats, shiew thut aretmeliarm  Capitol tiaferm.
mumagm  1913



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
-n2-
-e - uin& u
ltijeatot                (.111[_1. 03  t      *                         _1ua Cw.tb Rat
tyat  wlcaa)                  klan at           ca                       r act   _U?O    t
1932           197?  1973   1979   19       111   1152       195    191    133    1936   lIl
Nni     ffift 000t MY              326              27.3   G.7   22.5   22.1   31.1    2.1        9.8   20.3   17.0   11.0    9.3
r       iam                     24               13.1   s3.   16.1   26.2   13.3   -3.2        3.7   24.7   16.1   11.5   103
Pa fnetoas                      230              73.9   9.1   35.6   U.0   39.0    3.5          9.5   16.0   17.S   1.3    9.3
Mercmdisa  iarte                 3.231              24.2  -1.3   10.5    7.8   27.4   -L.0       -3.0    5.3    4.1 - '         4.9
food                            MO0             -14.2  23.6    3.9    7.1   31.6    6.4        3.5    4.5    4.8    6.8    4.3
Wutriolm                        679 1e             .  -13.2   30.3   42e 3    19.3   22.0      6.5    6.0    3.5    5.0    5.0
Hachisati an au t               103              433.  -3.6  -11.7   13.6   3.6  -13.6         4.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0
Otbh                          1.109              39.5  -9.5   27.5   -3A4   193    0.5         -3.5    5.0    5.3    3.0    5.0
_czs                                                               (1975 - 1M0)                                (130 - 100
xprct prie                                           6 -  .1  83.3   10.2  106.9  107.3  113.2    121.7  13.3  140.6  151.2  162.3
mpact price inins                   -              112.2  114.6  133.5  150.4   13.6  119.4      23.2  132.4  142.3  153.1  1".5
Toas of tran ;sa                    -               76.7  74.7   67.6   71.1   16.6   16.3       93.7   99.9  "9        13.8   48.9
c-poiatim of Narbmdiiea. bae C7)               Awiam. A_1al CGlaut Rate
(at coreat   c,)                           Ct  atmt m        )
197S      192       19W7                      17          1     7
Iapgotsif                                             100.0     100.0     100.0                         n.2         13.5
pwmry                                               79.3      "6.       57.3                         12.6        14.3
NM&f area                                           20.2      53.2      42.2                         253.        126
Ioptas                                                10.0      100.0     100.0                          8.7         3.3
To"                                                 22.2      16.7      18.3                         15.9         4.9
atuolam                                             10.6      21.0      243                         20.1         5.6
.N-ieam d a ipno                                    31.6     Z.0       23.7                          8.A         0.0
Other                                               35.5      34.3      33.3                          6.3         3.4
___T__  of SeCm    o                          l ot  IOet  C
__________________                                    ____________________   _ a  m           1z sh w   1912
Beawlod ambat acennza                                     17.6       3.9                      62.6      49.1
DEMlepiag   I _tmoma                                      70.2       84.2                     21.2      63.5
of ubicb Aimb cetuie                                    42.4       7B.S                     19.5      54.2
Centrally planwd acommia                                  12.2       11.5                     8.2        7.3
cr-
_ma 01
Il RZIia  aapetaiw Nono   190



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
1976  it"  1978            low-23-           TM                                                       333 H
011 3 437- uiaF OF CA  IUWIS. FItL   04           36141   338?
Ouiblisse 039 at eu4l01t 1146333
Isilcatot                             _                           ctul                                                   iwolete
1376   -  97     1973      191      1130     1951     193      113      133       1995     133      1317     1910
Zaotoad6rvc s                        16* 01    1203     1437    iDl    2H91        3205     3070      331      234      431      503      5539      7431
01 which Nscbsd, f.o.b.              207      243       297      402      574      742      743      75J      104      131      1551     1752     2514
-tobaremittancee           411      470       520      600      7n2     1642     16l       1144     233      16       147W     1593     2eo0
wel tn  of oods *       c            1320     1714      2035     28R2     215Z     4550      479     4250     405       5467     4132      7"    3413
of whichb  Nabhdise f.o.b.          1020      1374     1497     1357     23f      3231     3223      2970     34"      3324     4233     4921     616
Wechkr. remittascaes          20       44         5       U       154      159      175      213       223      240      245      230      336
et  r      r  2                        331     s54       347     104      1335     121       le55       47      Go0      552      414      414         a
t            Currt amoun4t                           52       -7    -20         -7      371      -21      -234       67    -22       -33      -479     474    -1982
Private direct igyetu   t             -to        11       56       24       31      14        91       34       102      110      11U      127       157
30 losne (mt)                         n 7      10       1o9      193      232      274      242       1        17       34       754      3s1     206
Official                              70        4       112      142     2W0       283      271      130       131      239      529      53      1442
private                                1      104        77       so       4        -9      -29       35        54      102      227      254      f1i
ada capital                           -5       .21       273       20    -26       -282       14         -        -        -        -             -   -
O_ is re_arem                         -59    -D3        -243     -232     -371        33     1l0    -354        -6       -3        1W     -105     -235
,teeimael    e57                               740        o      1215     150      1503     11l      12        IS       1478     1772     287       1u
Of shichs Cold                        so       81        el        2      208      18      .194      200       200      200      200      200      200
Resarves - methe of imrt                 5.0      5.1      5.6      5.2      5.5      4.5      3.2       3.6      3.3      2.1      3.0      2.8      2.7
3222334L cAnITAL am am6
GrsS di_. reu                         91      214       221      270      208      407      374      32        232      Gm       604     tOl2    13S
Caecae^imml loa                     8        94       19       15s1     I"       25       257      224       187     437       563      706     127
U                                 6        9        6        13        9        3        4        -        -        -         -        -        -
Otbar                            74       as       113      123      124      253      253      22        197     437       536      703     1397
.-ca       .ima.1 1_m.              11      u0         04       33      175      151      117       97       6S       18       241      204     s5
official      tceits              3        3        a        2        97       13       29       U        12       14        14       U        20
IrID                              -        -        -        4        23       19       22       33       39       43        53       45       60
otbe _iliateral                   -        -        -        7        14       2        to       15       14        to       19       21       23
hrivig.                           a      117?      34        0        41       go       54       A9       18       Il2      153      200      494
EItered debt
Debt aetetaian  _
dikwsd                             410      423       841     1048    .120      1623     168.     133       206      250      3110     3ou      790
Officia                         341      449      603       7         9      114      1484     1232    i         1754     2177     2720     5579
privtet                          49      154      232      233       27       277      221      550      419      752       933    116       233
Vudishwreed debt                   274      563       82       31      1D37      057      3U       521       532      51       650     1000     2000
Debt sevc
YOWL serie       e                  27       31        53       96      133      132      193      223       230      332      30       475      75
lucereet                          a       IS       24       40        53       a        61       98      131      149       190      238      497
h ym_te S *epots i                   2.7      3.2      4.0      5.3       5.4      5.7      *.1   U 4.         7.2      7.3      7.9      3.5     1.0
Avera3  isteret wufg
-d  mm l     Um CZ)                  2.4      4.0      6.3       5.3      6.3      5.3      6.0      7.0      7.0       7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0
A e e maturity
of am la     (years) 21.4    14A                       1.       21.4    14.8      17.7     20.1     17.0      17.0     17.0     17.0     17.0     17.0
Of -  Isse (yeere)                   4.1       3.5      5.6      4.7      3.8      4.J      5.0      4.1      4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
Aa 2 of Debt Outetmaiug
at sd of Ust  Recat Tae  r (132)
etwrity etr etwr of debt etntmdiag
tritieg de witbia 5 Yeats                                         46.5
Ibteritie dm withia 10 yams                                       93.3
Isteet  etretue of debt esttagmad
loteret da  within first year                                       .0
Date 0 nt  ailable.                                                                                                       _   0c1s-3
If EnPorta of see" ma macies includin  remittances.                                       0_emer 1993
2f    cug csreic ed trefere by loe  tem resident mcrker, abroe.



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN a/
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1983)
-- ---US$ Million--
Amount
(less cancellations)
Number   Year     Borrower       Purose                Bank       IDA     Undisbursed
Fifteen credits
fully disbursed    Jordan                                           86.1       -
One loan fully
disbursed             "                                 15.0                   -
1617   1978         The Arab
Potash Co.   Potash Extraction    35.0                    0.1
1781   1979         Jordan         Education III         19.0                 12.9
1826   1980                        CVDB                  10.0                  9.1
1893   1980           "            Urban Development    21.0                  18.1
1986   1981                        Power IV              25.0                 16.7
2068   1982           "            Education IV          25.0                 24.0
2162   1982                        Power V               35.0                 33.8
2213   1983                        Water Supply and
Sewerage         17.0                 17.0
2246   1983                        Education V           18.8                 18.8
2334   1983 b/                     Urban Transport       30.0                 30.0
TOTAL                                                   250.8        86.1    180.5
of which has been repaid                 -           2.0
Total now held by Bank/IDA c/           250.8        84.1
Total undisbursed                                    -     180.5
a/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
bl Not yec effective.
c/ Includes exchange rate adjustments.



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 25 -
ANNEX tU
Page 2 of 2
B. STAT9MENT OF INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1983)
-----USe Million ----
Year           Obligor           Type of Business      Loan      Equity    Total
1974     Jordan Ceramic Ind.
Co. Ltd.              Ceramic Tiles            1.6      0.2        1.8
19751    Jordan Fertilizer
78181/82   Ind. Co.             Phosphatic Fertilizer 79.5 I/   8.7         88.2 11
1979     Jordan Lime and
Silicate               Building Materials       2.5      0.7        3.2
1979     Jordan Securities      Money & Capital
Corp.                   Market                           0.7        0.7
1980     Jordan Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Leasing                 -.3                 0.3
Total Comuitments                             83.6 I/  10.6        94.2 1/
Less Commitments Repaid, Sold or
Cancelled                                     51.1 I/   _          51.1 I/
Total Commitments now held by IFC                   32.5     10.6       43.1
Total Undisbursed                               9.5      0.3        9.8
1/ Includes a $50.0 million loan managed by IFC on behalf of other
participants.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare          Six months from November
the project;                                  1982 to April 1983
(b) The Agency which has prepared the
project;                                      The Government of Jordan
with the assistance of
JEPCO, IDECO and
consultants
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank
and date of first Bank mission
to consider the project;                      November 1982, April 1983
Cd)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission;    -April 6, 1983
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations;           October 28, 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness.                end April 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III; Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness:
The Government would sign subsidiary loan agreements with JEPCO and IDECO
(para. 45).
Other Undertakings:
(a) The Government would secure co-financiers' loans by end 1984, or
provide corresponding financing from its own resources (para. 45);
(b) NRA would consult with the Bank prior to implementing the
recommendations of exploration programs (para. 35).



- 27 -
UNNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) NRA would recruit, in accordance with timetable acceptable to the
Bank, experts to assist in its operations; IDECO would employ by
June 30, 1984, consultants acceptable to the Bank to outline a plan
for strengthening planning, management and control, and implement the
plan no later than January 1986 after taking into account Bank
comments (para. 40).
(d)  JEPCO would maintain a self-financing ratio of 25 percent in 1983 and
at least 35 percent in 1984 and thereafter; would not borrow without
Bank's agreement unless its revenues are at least 1.5 times its
projected debt service; would issue shares in light of its capital
expenditures, and exchange views with the Bank on this matter each
fiscal year during project implementation (para. 41).
(e) IDECO would streamline billing procedures and increase security
deposits by customers; would take measures, including adjustment of
tariffs, to maintain a self-financing ratio of 20 percent until 1988
and 30 percent thereafter on revalued assets; would not borrow
without Bank's agreement unless its revenues are at least 1.5 times
its projected debt service (para. 42).



BEST r..PY AVAILARnEE
IBRD 16106R
r' V              , JUNE I9E3
LEBANONI  r
_:  --   /     Mv            ~~~~~~~S Y R I A N  A R A B                     I R A Q
_   )     j 3                ~~~~~~R E P U B L IC                       .
_S- --      A.-\                   SYIA            ARAB 
R TvaRHEOPR  H1GHIANOS                              XNORTHfASrTERN
--  is'est Ban*  8,r;h Er lon                                PiA rFA U
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ih A   rl*
McDITERRANEAN
SEA
NVORTHERNFV  PLArEAU
/ W~~~ LZE SesOfire-z   ~~~~~~~ ]/ I
Auroa Area  Im-,,-l I _
//   {/   /E!   <                 \.  '',        ~~~~~~~~~~S A U D I A R A B I A
j  I S R A E L                N_\
CENTrAAL PLATEAU 
-      ' .. ! S Q 3 S Siphon Areao
r   \  P  /   \                  '           '^  ~~~~~ ~~MAIN  PHYSIOGRAPHIC AREAS
-3.       '    S                                       .-              EXPLORATION WELLS
ARA B                                                                         EpJ| omt*ree Walk
R E P U B L I C                                                                 0 /J [  /  Uw fosh tI 
O F  E G Y PT                                rGmJJb,
t-~SOU[HERtfl  AM04YN7A1#VOUS                                    Nelierel Cered
/ It   DEsEFRr                -                      So J     R_& I %
/  }  11\    *                                      Swh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-end Reods
r  !            IbASG    q~~~~~~~OMPEIEO  10  0  eo 110    Z0    Rr s odi
U D I   A  R A   I A
RI'                    ,         Sr



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
IBRD 16299R
JUNE 1913
moh nI                                              S Y RIA N  
'IC      -                                                                       E9 ARPUBLIC
.3           E           K                                                                   El A-q
hkh- ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~
JORDAN
rœ {   // 1,Alal_  :^    JS. |ENERGY
(\< -; A ~~~~RESOURCES AND INFRASTRUCTURE
u  ;       . i  , /                                     O      C~~~~~~~~~~i    EOTHERMAL PROSPECT
Al.                                                             EXISTING ON UNDER CONSTRUCTION TRANSANSARN SETBSRAT:
DeAjw REv                                    4W a.kV POWER  STATIO N
_  g   g | I  \   ,/   z    z                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~132 kV TRAI>IMISS101W LINE
--)                 - <. /  t      o URBAN AREAS    CITIES. TOWNS. VILLAGES
_____NATIONAL HIGHfWAYS
SECODN CLASS ROADS
I        ~           ~~~ -    OTHER ROADS
El JrrO,       _      ,         .  .        RAILWAYS
\  ;  - _   .MUDFLATS
RIVERS
- .-. -K INTERNATIOHAL BOUNDARIES
30D   /t   R wn N^bt/,le   tt                                             _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
, f t -~~~~~~~~ -l9tlI                                  o                                                                            - - ,JOU   
SYPIAR ARAB
SEA                    -             
C    CS  20   II  CI  511  110   N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A U    A N%
a    A  O  *     D  a              O so
ACLARA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~             AD. A    B 
'~~~~~~                              'o   |           - _/_____       
,,>tS  _C _D -S  A   U _              A _  A rA



