LOAN NUMBER 2371 JO
Loan Agreement
(Energy Development Project)
between
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2371 JO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              7 1984, between HASHEMITE
KINGDOM OF JORDAN (here4qafter cled the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out partly by the Borrower
and partly, with the Borrower's assistance, by certain indepen-
dent agencies of the Borrower, namely, the Natural Resources
Authority, the Jordanian Electric Power Company, the Irbid
District Electricity Company and the Royal Scientific Society
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to said agencies part of the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(C) the Borrower intends to secure under contract or other
arrangements with other external sources of finance an aggregate
amount equivalent to about two million eight hundred thousand
dollars ($2,800,000) to assist in financing Parts C, D and E of
the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the agencies
referred to in (B) above;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "JEPCO" means the Jordanian Electric Power Company,
established and operating under Law Number 1651 of 1962 of the
Borrower;
(b) "IDECO" means the Irbid District Electricity Company,
established and operating under Law Number 1 of 1961 of the
Borrower;
(c) "NRA" means the Natural Resources Authority of the
Borrower, established and operating under Law N.imber 12 of 1968
of the Borrower;
(d) "Project Agreements" means the agreements between the
Bank and each of JEPCO, IDECO and NRA of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to thE     'roject Agreements and all agreements
supplemental to the Pro, _t Agreements;
(e) "JEPCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and JEPCO pursuant to
Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
JEPCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the term "JEPCO Loan" means
the loan provided under the JEPCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(f) "IDECO Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and IDECO pursuant to
Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
IDECO Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the term "IDECO Loan" means
the loan provided under the IDECO Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(g)  "RSS" means the Royal Scientific Society, a private
non-profit  organization   for  the  promotion   of  science  and
technology, established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower;
(h) "EPU" means the Energy Planning Unit, established
within the National Planning Council of the Borrower;


﻿- 3 -
(i)  "Implementing Agencies" means all entities, nther than
NPC, responsible for the carrying out of the Project, namely,
NRA, RSS, JEPCO and IDECO; and
(j)  "NPC" means   the National Planning    Council of   the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencie2s equivalent to thirty
million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for Parts A and B of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of the Schedules to the Project
Agreements.
(b) Goods required for Parts C, D and E of the Project and
to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured
(i) under contracts awarded after obtaining price quotations from
not less than three manufacturers or suppliers of such goods; or
(ii) if the Bank agrees that such goods are of a specialized
nature, under contracts to be negotiated with the suppliers of
such goods under procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.                 I
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000).


﻿(b) Prior to the dispatch by the Bank of the notice
referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 12.03 of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall pay to the Bank the amount of the
said fee in such currency or currencies as the Bank shall
specify.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest   Period" means   the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum,
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"  means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year,


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) carry out Parts C
and E of the Project through NPC and Part D of the Project
through NPC in cooperation with RSS, in accordance with appro-
priate financial, engineering and administrative practices, and
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose; (ii) exercise, through
NPC, the overall responsibility for coordinating and monitoring
all activities under the Project; and (iii) ensure that NPC will
assign to EPU, in a timely manner, the staff required to enable
EPU to perform its administrative and technical functions under
the Project, including staff for energy conservation and renew-
able energy.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause NRA, JEPCO and IDECO to perform in accordance with the
provisions of their respective Project Agreements all of their
obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
NRA, JEPCO and IDECO to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with sucb performance.
(c) The Borrower shall make available in the form of
budgetary allocations: (i) to NRA, the proceeds of the Loan
allocated for Part A of the Project under Category (1) of the
table shown in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(ii) to NPC, the proceeds of the Loan allocated for Parts C, D
and E of the Project under Categories (4), (5) and (6) of said
table.
(d) The Borrower shall ensure that adequate arrangements
will be made between NPC and RSS for the implementation of Part D
of the Project and the utilization of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated therefor.


﻿- 6 -
(e) The Borrower shall relend: (i) to JEPCO, the proceeds
of the Loan allocated for Part B (1) of the Project under
Category (2) of the table shown in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and (ii) to IDECO, the proceeds of the Loan
allocated for Part B (2) of the Project under Category (3) of
said table, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and each of JEPCO and IDECO under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which
shall include, inter alia, the obligations of each of JEPCO and
IDECO to repay the principal amount so relent to it over a period
of seventeen years, including a grace period of four years, and
with commitment charga and interest at rates identical to those
applicable to the Loan pursuant to Sections 2.06 and 2.07 hereof,
respectively; such principal amount to be repaid shall be the
equivalent in terms of Jordanian dinars (determined as of the
respective dates of repayment) of the currency or currencies
withdrawn from the Loan Account and charged to the account of the
JEPCO Loan or the IDECO Loan, as the case may be.
(f) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the JEPCO
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the IDECO Subsidiary Loan Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive said Agreements or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (a) conclude with other
external sources of finance, not later than December 31, 1984 (or
such other date as the Bank may agree) arrangements required for
securing, for the purpose of financing Parts C, D and E of the
Project, the amount referred to in Recital (C) of the Preamble to
this Agreement; or (b) provide to the Bank, by such date, alter-
native arrangements which the Borrower shall have made in order
to secure such amount from the Borrower's own resources.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause NPC: (a) to prepare
and provide to the Bank for its review and comments, a program
for carrying out the training activities provided under Parts C,
D, and E of the Project; and (b) after taking into account the
Bank's comments thereon, implement such program in accordance
with a time schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. In order to assist in the implementation of
Parts C, D and E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or


﻿- 7 -
cause NPC to employ, consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank, such consultants to be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers ai. by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in "ugust 1981.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause NPC to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by NPC to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause NPC to ensure that all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made
available to it by the Borrower for purposes of Parts C, D and E
of the Project will be used exclusively for the purposes of the
Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause NPC to furnish to
the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, reports, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for Parts C, D and E of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall cause NPC: (i) to maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of
Parts C, D and E of the Project (including their cost and the
benefits to be derived from them), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available
to NPC, and to disclose their use in Parts C, D or E of the
Project; (ii) to enable the Bank's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in Parts C, D and E of
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan made available to NPC and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) to furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning Parts C, D and E of the Project, their cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from them, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Loan made available to NPC and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 8 -
(c) Upon the award of any contract for goods or services
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under Parts C, D
and E of the Project, the Bank may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower, acting through NPC and in cooperation
with the Implementing Agencies, shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Implementing Agencies
and the Bank of their respective obligations under this Agreement
and the Project Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower, acting through NPC, shall,
at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with
regard to the progress of Parts C, D and E of the Project, the
performance of its oblig tions under this Agreement and under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower, acting through NPC, shall promptly inform
the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to inter-
fere with the progress of Parts C, D and E of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by
the Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any


﻿- 9 -
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause NPC to maintain sepa-
rate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Parts C, D and E of the
Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause NPC:
(a) to have the accounts referred to in Section 4.03 hereof
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;


﻿- 10 -
(b) to furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)  to furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
ing said accounts and the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gene-
ral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) JEPCO, IDECO or NRA shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under its respective Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that JEPCO, IDECO or NRA
will be able to perform its obligations under its respective Pro-
ject Agreement.
(c) Law No. 1651 of 1962 or Law No. 1 of 1961 or Law No. 12
of 1968 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
JEPCO or IDECO or NRA, respectively, to perform any of its oblig-
ations under its respective Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of JEPCO, IDECO or NRA or for the suspension of its opera-
tions.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gene-
ral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and JEPCO, IDECO or NRA; and


﻿- 11 -
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the JEPCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the IDECO
Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and JEPCr and on behalf of the Borrower and IDECO, re-
spectively.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreements have been duly authorized
or ratified by JEPCO, IDECO and NRA, respectively, and are legal-
ly binding upon JEPCO, IDECO and NRA, respectively, in accordance
with their terms; and
(b) that the JEPCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the IDECO
Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified
by the Borrower and JEPCO and the Borrower and IDECO, respective-
ly, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and JEPCO and the
Borrower and IDECO, respectively, in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date  '4            Y, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section7 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The President of the National Planning Council
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
For the Borrower:
National Planning Council
P.O. Box 555
Amman, Jordan
Cable address:                       Telex:
NPC                               21319 JO
AMMAN
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By >1 r/  "  .'                      &
/i             Authorie Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By )
2/'  4  Regional Vice President
Europe, Mid e East and North Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Part A of the
Project:
(a) Consultants'        2,100,000           100% of foreign
services                               expenditures
(b) Training              600,000           100% foreign
expenditures
(c) Advance pro-         1,500,000          100% of foreign
cessing of                             expenditures
seis ic data
(d) Equipment             500,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
(2) Part B (1) of the
Project:
(a) Equipment          10,400,000           100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory
(b) Installation        2,100,000           40%
contracts
(c) Consultants'          300,000           100% of foreign
services                               expenditures


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3) Equipment under          7,600,000           100% of foreign
Part B (2) of the                           expenditures and
Project                                    100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory
(4) Part C of the
Project:
(a) Consultants'        2,300,000           100% of foreign
services                              expenditures
(b) Services of a         200,000          75%
Conservation
Adviser
(c) Equipment             350,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Part D of the
Project:
(a) Consultants'           50,000          100% of foreign
services                              expenditures
(b) Equipment             200,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(6) Consultants'               250,000          100% of foreign
services under                             expenditures
Part E of the
Project
(7) Unallocated              1,550,000
TOTAL        30,000,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement, expect that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding $200,000 equivalent, may be made
under Category (4) on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after November 1, 1983.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
suci Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 16 -
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objectives of the Project are to initiate or
continue the implementation of investments that would contribute
to the improvement of Jordan's overall energy efficiency and to
assist in providing the groundwork needed for the formulation of
a comprehensive long-term energy plan.
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Petroleum Exploration
Strengthening of NRA's program for prospect mapping, log
interpretation and seismic data acquisition, processing and
interpretation through:
(1) provision of equipment and materials for micropalaento-
logy, palynology, petrography, geochemistry and well-
testing;
(2) provision of consultants' services in petroleum geo-
logy, drilling and production; seismic interpretation
and seismostratigraphy;
(3) advance processing of seismic data; and
(4) training of NRA's staff in petroleum exploration and
production techniques.
Part B:   Power Distribution
(1) Expansion and rehabilitation of the power distribution
system and electrification of about 20 villages in
JEPCO's concession area through (a) the provision and
installation of underground cables, medium and low
voltage overhead lines, and (b) the provision of power
transformers and of distribution transformers.
(2) Expansion and rehabilitation of the power distribution
system in IDECO's concession area and electrification
of about 55 villages in the Governorate of Irbid
through (a) the provision and installation of under-
ground cables, medium and low voltage overhead lines
and (b) the provision of power transformers and of dis-
tribution transformers.


﻿- 18 -
(3) The provision of technical services (a) for JEPCO, in
connection with Part B (1) of the Project, in the pre-
paration of the detailed engineering design and tender
documents, the evaluation of bids and the supervision
of construction, and (b) for IDECO, in the formulation
of a strategy to strengthen its financial planning and
control capabilities.
Part C:   Energy Conservation
(1) Studies, to be undertaken with the assistance of an
engineering firm, to establish energy conservation
measures for major energy consuming idustries, and to
assess the cost and potential saving of such measures.
(2) Provision of equipment required for undertaking the
studies and for testing the measures referred to in (1)
above.
(3) Technical assistance for EPU, through the employment
of an energy conservation adviser, to assist in the
identification of conservation projects and in the
implementation of an industrial conservation strategy.
(4) Training in the identification and preparation of pro-
jects for the improvement of energy efficiency.
Part D:   Renewable Energy
(1) A program of planning studies and, on the basis of
the findings of such studies, of pilot/demonstration
schemes, with the assistance of consultants for renew-
able energy.
(2) Provision of equipment required under (1) above.
(3) Training of RSS's staff in renewable energy technolo-
gies.
Part E:   Energy Planning
(1) Studies, with the assistance of consultants, of poli-
cies and measures for energy planning, management and
pricing.


﻿- 19 -
(2) Provision of equipment for EPU.
(3) Training of EPU's staff in project appraisal, prepara-
tion -nd implementation, investment planning, energy
pricing and conservation, demand management and macro-
economic policy formulation.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                        (Expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1988
through   October 15, 2000                  1,155,000
On   April 15, 2001                              1,125,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           .18
before maturity
More than three years but not                       .35
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                         .65
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                      .88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years                           1.00
before maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this                     F     Eday ofC R
FOR SECRETARY


