Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ce ,Ž5r-c¾Y
Report No. P-4453-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 57.3 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
XINJIANG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 5, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit       -    Yuan (Y)
Calendar 1986       January 1987
$1.00 = Y3.45       $1.00 = Y 3.72
Y 1.0 = $0.29       Y 1.0 = $0.27
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)         -    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)    -    0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)      -    2.47 acres
1 ton               -    1000 kg
-    2,205 pounds
1 kilogram          -    2.2 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BSF         -    Bureau of State Farms
CNMIEC      -    China National Machinery Import and Export Corporation
ERR         -    Economic Rate of Return
GVAIO       -    Gross Value of Agricultural and Industrial Output
ICB         -    International Competitive Bidding
LCB         -    Local Competitive Bidding
MAAF        -    Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries
MOF         -    Ministry of Finance
PCBC        -    People's Construction Bank of China
PO          -    Project Office
PRS         -    Production Responsibility System
PU          -    Project Unit
SOE         -    Statement of Expenditure
XAITC       -    Xinjiang Agriculture, Industry and Trade Corporation
XFIMO       -    Xinjiang Foreign Investment Management Office



i                     FOR OMCF uL USE ONLY
CHINA
XINJIANG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           People's Republic of China
Amount:             SDR 57.3 million ($ 70.0 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Project
Description:     In support of the Government's policy to accelerate
development of China's poorer provinces in the north and
west, the proposed project would expand the irrigated area
for crop production, improve pastures, and promote live-
stock development on 20 state farms in Northern Xinjiang.
Specifically, it would construct irrigation works on
32,300 ha to be planted with food, fiber, and fodder
crops; improve 44,700 ha of rainfed pasture through
fertilizing, fencing and seeding; and introduce improved
animal breeds. To handle the increased production of raw
materials, the project would construct and equip agro-
processing facilities such as cottonseed oil processing
plants, wool processing plants, slaughterhouses and raisin
production facilities. In addition to agro-processing
equipment, the project would provide tractors, combine
harvesters, balers, silage equipment, scrapers with laser-
control, bulldozers, fuel tankers and refrigerated
trucks. A project-supported training component would be
used to train equipment operators, plant managers and
workers, and project personnel.
At full development, the project would produce annually
about 21,300 tons of wheat, other grains, and oilseeds,
13,800 tons of cotton and cottonseed, 24,000 tons of
grapes, 78,000 tons of feed grain and fodder, 11,300 tons
of fresh and preserved mutton, beef, and pork, and
1,lon tons of clean wool, wool tops, and other wool
products. It would provide an additional 24,000 full-time
jobs and raise annual per capita incomes of farm families
to about Y800 and of full-time employees engaged in animal
husbandry or agro-processing to about Y 1000. The project
faces no significant technical, organizational or market-
ing risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
Local        Foreign       Total
-- I$min)
Irrigation                                     20.6          16.8         37.4
Pasture improvement                             1.2           1.0          2.2
Livestock development                           3.6           2.9          6.5
Agro-processing                                 6.7          20.1         26.8
Machinery & equipment                           0.0          17.1         17.1
Buildings                                       7.3           2.4          9.8
Training                                        0.7           0.8          1.5
Base cost /a                             40.1           61.3        101.3
PhysicaL contingencies                          3.3           5.7          9.0
Price contingencies                             1.6           3.0          4.6
Total Project Cost                       45.0           70.0        115.0
Financing Plan:
IDA                                                       70.0         70.0
Central Government                         22.0                        22.0
Xinjiang Agriculture,
Industry and Trade
Corporation and Branches                 23.0                        23.0
Total                                      45.0           70.0        115.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY                           1988     1989      1990     1991      1992
Annual                            4.0      17.0     23.0     23.0       3.0
Cumulative                        4.0     21.0      44.0     67.0      70.0
Economic Rate of Return:            18Z
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 6425-CHA, dated February 3, 1987
/a The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE XINJIANC ACRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance the Zinjiang
Agricultural Development project. The credit, for SDR 57.3 million ($70.0
million equivalent) would be on standard IDA terms.
PART r - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic report entitled, "China: Long-Term Issues and
Options" (No. 5206-CHA) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 22, 1985. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Since 1978, China has initiated economic reforms in both rural and
urban areas and in the external sector. Reforms have thus far progressed the
farthest in the rural economy. Following some experiments with the abolition
of collective farming in impoverished areas, the Government implemented a com-
prehensive restructuring of rural institutions based on various forms of the
"production responsibility system".  By 1983 the farm household had become the
fundamental unit of management and production in agriculture, within a frame-
work of collective or state ownership of land and major fixed assets. Reforms
are now proceeding in the urban economy, and there have been significant
changes in enterprise management and finance. The scope for collective and
individual economic activities has been enlarged, and state enterprises have
been aLlowed greater freedom in production, pricing and marketing above their
mi'ndatory plan targets. State enterprises have also been allowed to retain
some profits, and investment projects are increasingly being financed on a
loan rather than a grant basis.
4.        In international trade and investment, China has been progressively
opening up to the rest of the world. Between 1978 and 1985, the share of
exports to GDP nearly doubled to about 10, a ratio similar to other large
economies such as the U.S. and Brazil. Foreign investment has been encour-
aged, first through the establishment of four Special Economic Zones and the
signing of joint venture contracts for off-shore oil exploration, and more
recently through the opening of 14 coastal cities to foreign investment.
Growth and Stabilization
5.        Reforms have helped to stimulate more rapid development of the
economy.  Real GDP growth averaged 5Z p.a. between 1978 and 1981 and 10  p.a.
between 1981 and 1985. More recently, in 1985, growth accelerated to 12.3Z as
a result of further reforms emphasizing decentralized decisionmaking, and the
expansionary macroeconomic policies of 1984. During 1978-1985, per capita



- 2 -
incomes in real terms more than doubled in rural areas and increased by nore
than 50Z in urban areas. Agriculture has continued its remarkably strong
performance, with gross agriculturod output value (excluding rural industry
and commerce) rising at nearly 11% p.a. between 1981 and 1985 and grain output
at 8% p.a. (reaching as high as 407 million tons in 1984). Cash crops and
animal husbandry, stimulated by rising demand and attractive prices, have also
grown rapidly. Cross industrial output value grew at over 10% p.a. over the
same period, with heavy industry growing somewhat faster than light industry
(121 p.a. vs. 9% p.a.). If rural industrial output is included, gross indus-
trial output vaLue grew at close to 12% p.a. in real terms between 1981 and
1984. The energy constrairt on industrial growth was eased by rising coal
output (8% p.a. between 1981 and 1985), renewed increases in crude oil produc-
tion (4% p.a. between 1981 and 1985) and improvements in the efficiency of
energy utilization (primary commercial energy consumption grew only 60% as
fast as CDP between 1981 and 1985). Manufactured exports growth, at 8% p.a.
in real terms between 1981 and 1985, was slower than during the 1978-81 period
in the face of worsening world market conditions.
6.        The Government continues to face difficulties in combining system
reform and rapid overalL growth with maintenance of economic stability.
During 1979 and 1980, China experienced large budget and current account
deficits, combined with excessive investment and inflationary pressures. In
response, a strict stabilization program was introduced in 1981 relying mainly
on administrative controls on investment spending. The program slowed growth
but also helped lower the budget deficit from about 52 of GDP in 1979 to less
than 1% in 1981, reduce inflation to around 2% p.a., and change China's exter-
nal position to one of current account surpluses averaging nearly $4 billion
during 1982-84. As a result, foreign debt and debt service ratios were still
at low levels ($13.1 billion and 6.8%, respectively, in 1984), and China's
foreign currency reserves rose to $17.8 billion (over 9 months' imports) by
mid-1984.
7.        This comfortable balance of payments position disappeared rapidly
during the course of 1984 and early 1985. Partly as a result of decentraliza-
tion of decisionmaking and the lack of effective indirect policy instruments,
there was a rapid acceleration of investment and consumption during late 1984
and the first half of 1985, causing the economy to overheat. Real CDP grew by
12% during 1985, while average wages in state-owned enterprises rose by 20%,
and domestic credit grew by 22%. The retail price index rose by 8.8% in 1985.
There was also a rapid expansion in consumer goods imports. As a result,
foreign exchange reserves had fallen to $13.2 billion by the end of 1985
(equivalent to 4.2 months of imports), and the current account deficit for the
year was $12 billion, much of which was financed by an increase in foreign
borrowing. China's external debt by end 1985 reached $20 billion, up from
$13.1 billion in 1984 and the debt service ratio (including short-term debt)
rose to 8%. The Government responded by launching a strict stabilization
program that aims to control imports and borrowing and includes further
increases in interest rates as well as a series of adminaistrative directives
governing bank credit and project approval. Most recently, in Julv 1986, the
Renminbi was devalued from Y 3.2 to the US dollar to Y 3.7, and a program to
improve controls over external borrowing was introduced. As a result, aggre-
gate credit and investment as well as new import orders have begun to slow.



The balance of payments in 1986 is likely to show an improvement, albeit
small, from 1985.
Recent Reforms
8.        The Central Committee of the Chinese Comunist Party issued a major
document on "reform of che economic structure" in October 1984, whose
provisions have been embodied in the Seventh Five-Year Plan. These include:
(a) state enterprises should be made fully independent units which pursue
profits and are responsible for losses; (b) the scope of mandatory planning
should be reduced and replaced by indicative planning, while the focus of
planning should shift from annual to medium- and long-term guidance planning;
(c) a more rational price system should be intruduced, reducing the role of
r.tate-controlled prices and increasing the role of "floating" at-d free market
prices; and (d) the tax system should be improved, finance and banking should
be reformed, and a larger role should be given to indirect macroeconomic regu-
lation through indirect instruments such as tax, credit and pricing policy.
9.        Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remarkable spread of nonagricul-
tural activities like processing, transport, and commerce.  "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on cash crops, animal husbandry, or nonagri-
cultural activities) and pooling of capital by small groups of households in
various types of ventures are becoming increasingly common forms of economic
organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale markets for some agricultural
products have emerged. To encourage investment in land improvement and devel-
opment, farming contracts between collective and peasant households for the
use of land (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years) can
now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, the system of
agricultural procurement was changed. Previously the Government purchased
quota output of grain and other crops at relatively low prices and stood ready
to purchase all above-quota output at a higher price. Under the new system,
procurement up to a certain amount (below former quota procurement) is based
on contracts concluded voluntarily between peasants and procurement agen-
cies. Prices for these purchases are based on the relatively high average
price of past years. Output above the contracted amount must be sold by
peasants directly on the free market, but the Government will intervene to
purchase grain if the price falls to the original quota procurement price.
Thus, a considerably larger portion of basic crop production will be produced
for and traded on markets with flexible prices.
10.       The momentum of urban reforms has continued with significant
progress on several fronts. In enterprise management, the focus has been an
broadening and delineating the decisionmaking authority of urban enterprises.
Profit retention now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial
enterprises and to nonindustrial sectors like transpurt, commerce, construc-
tion, and other services. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as
well as a variety of joint ventures between them and state enterprises, have
grown rapidly (the number employed in urban individual enterprises rose from
150,000 in 1978 to 3.4 million in 1984).



- 4 -
11.       In financial reforms, the most important new development has been
the implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances by
state enterprises to the government budget. Though most enterprises have
switched to this system, the benefits have been limited because financial
discipline at the enterprise level remains weak. Efforts have been made to
strengthen accounting and auditing systems and more strictly enforce existing
financial regulations, but the expectation remains strong that the Government
will subsidize Losses.
12.       Progress has also been made with price reform.  The majority of
agriculture commodity prices were decontrolled even before the recent change
in pricing and procurement of grain. Prices of many consumer goods are also
set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating prices"
(up to 2OZ above or below official prices) are now allowed for many industrial
producer goods (either for all output or for output above the mandatory plan
target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw materials (which
in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized basic consumer
goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to implement,
hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living standards
and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some price
rises have occurred (e.g., for coal and petroleum), and, moreover, the share
of free-market transactions, at largely uncontrolled prices, has increased in
recent years. Gradually over time, a two-tier system is emerging; a large but
shrinking share of the total supply of most important goods is subject to
mandatory plan allocation and administratively set prices, while at the margin
a substantial and growing share is allocated by the market mechanism, largely
at flexible prices. This pattern may permit China to "grow out of the plan"
in a relatively smooth transition, though there are obvious threats to this
strategy arising from the strong incentive for arbitrage between planned and
unplanned realms.
13.       The Government recognizes the need to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management and has taken some steps to do so. The People's Bank
of China was established as a separate central bank at the beginning of 1984,
with its commercial banking functions taken on by the newly created Industrial
and Commercial Bank of China. In 1985, new methods of credit planning and
control were introduced and redeposit requirements were introduced for the
specialized banks. Interest rates (including deposit rates) were also raised
in 1985, with some move toward unification of rates and development of a term
structure resembling that in other countries. Technical transformation loans
with a maturity less than one year and loans for working capital now carry the
same 7.9% interest rate while loans of longer maturity carry higher rates, up
to 10.8Z for 10-year loans. However, interest rates on budgetary capital
construction loans (formerly grants) remain low, and there is a variety of
directed credit schemes. On the external side, greater use is now being made
of the exchange rate. The old internal settlement rate was abolished at the
beginning of 1985, and between January 1985 and the present, the Renminbi has
been devalued three times, most recently in July, by 16% against the US
dollar. Despite these changes, progress in perfecting new indirect levers of
control has been slow. Recent difficulties in securing macroeconomic balance
highlight the need to strengthen institutions and macroeconomic management
tcols (including monetary, fiscal, and exchange rate instruments) for a
decentralized and more market-oriented economy.



-5-
Long-Term Issues and Prospects
14.       In April 1986, a national Party conference adopted the new Seventh
Five-Year Plan covering the period 1986-90. The Plan reaffirms the comitment
to economic reform and provides guidelines for future reform and development.
Target growth rates (7.5% p.a. for industry, 4% for agriculture, 7.5% for CUP)
are below rates of growth achieved with the Sixth Five-Year Plan, investment
is to be restrained in the next few years, and emphasis is to be placed upon
quality rather than quantity of output. It is thought that slower growth will
facilitate reform and help maintain macroeconomic balance.
15.       The Plan identifies three main areas of reform.  First, enterprise
management and incentives are to be improved by: giving enterprises greater
autonomy in production, pricing, and employment decisions; lowering and
equalizing taxes; increasing competition; increasing accountability for
performance; and reforming personnel procedures. In addition, more small
state enterprises will be turned over to collective or individual management
through contracts or leases. Second, the role of the market is to be further
extended, and market networks strengthened. The scope of mandatory planning
will be further reduced, and markets for capital, technology, and labor will
gradually be developed. Third, the emphasis of planning wiLl shift from
detailed administrative control to indirect macroeconomic control through
economic policy. To this end a series of mutually reinforcing reforms in the
planning, pricing, fiscal, banking, and labor and wage systems will be intro-
duced during the plan period.
16.       Specific policy measures will take time to design and implement,
however.  Many of the reforms required will be difficult.  Since reforms in
different areas are closely interrelated, appropriate sequencing and coordina-
tion are essential. For example, price reform in the absence of improvements
in enterprise financial discipline will have limited benefits, yet tighter
financial discipline and more profit-oriented behavior would exacerbate the
adverse impact of distorted prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocation
system to promote greater labor mobility will be incomplete without eliminat-
ing many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises (which now provide
housing, medical care, and pensions for their workers and in many cases
education and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them with Government-
supported social service programs.
17.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means CUP growth of well over
6% p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as
continued high saving and investment rates. The Plan recognizes there must be
major structural changes in the economy over the next two decades, including a
reduction in the share of agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and
services (which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization.
There will also be a shift within agriculture, away from grain and basic crops
and into cash crops and animal husbandry. The new plan will emphasize
development of the service sector, mainly through removing restrictions on
collective and individual activity. Urban development will focus on small and
mediumr-sized cities and towns, while restrictions on growtn of large urban
areas will continue.



18.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with develcped countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve-
ments in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In energy, short-
ages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain growth
of transport and commercial infrastructure. Without large new investments and
improved efficiency, economic growth will lag. In mobilizing resources in all
these areas, China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally,
the rising share of the elderly in China's population (related to the slowdown
in population growth) means that more resources will have to be devoted to
maintaining their consumption levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
19.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problems which can be solved only by coordi-
nated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management, and
social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education and
training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial. Back-
ward technology and inefficient use of existing technology must be addressed
by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and transfer
of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories, suboptimal
scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in general are
related problems.
20.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a bene-
ficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to the
fore. Management of a reformed economy with indirect fiscal, monetary, and
other instruments is a major issue (see para. 15 above). In this context,
maintaining an adequate saving rate (since the Government no longer accounts
for the bulk of aggregate saving) and avoiding inflation (as well as deep
cyclical downturns) will be major goals. Assuring an adequate minimum
standard of living for the population and an appropriate level of social
services will become a major challenge, as enterprise and rural communal
responsibilities in these areas are reduced. The problem of poor, backward
rural areas in various parts of the country will continue to require atten-
tion. Redistributing financial resources to these areas through the fiscal
system, easing restrictions on migration out of the poorest areas, and lower-
ing nonagricultural wages to make investment in them more attractive are some
options for alleviating poverty.
21.       In order t  3obilize the external resources needed for rapid,
sustained growth the clan calls for export growth of 40-50% over the next five
years to reach $38 billion; greater efforts to attract foreign investment; and
increased but cautious commercial borrowing. Imports are expected to reach
$45 billion by 1990, implying a fairly slow growth rate of 4% per annum but on
a very high base volume of imports in 1984-86. By implication, the Plan calls
for continued borrowing on the world capital markets through the end of the
decade. Under this scenario China's current account deficit would average
around $7-8 billion p.a. during the remainder of this decade, equivalent to
about 1-2% of GNP. This implies that the present debt service ratio would
increase by 1990, although it would remain below the 15% ceiling given in the
Plan. If China's exports grew more slowly, imports would probably have to be



cut back, because a higher borrowing target, although feasible, might not be
comfortable in terms of debt service indicators. This highlights the need for
continued export growth in order to meet other Plan objectives and to service
present and future commercial borrowing. The Plan recognizes that flexible
use of exchange rate and pricing policies will be needed to encourage export
growth.
22.       Even with continued good export performance, China will have
substantial external capital requirements during the remainder of the decade,
and access to concessionary capital will continue to play an important role in
sustaining China's growth. China is still one of the poorer countries of the
world, but its access to concessionary capital for financing development and
modernization is limited. Apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount
of concessionary capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other
bilateral donors and will probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a.
during the rest of the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       To achieve the target growth rates envisioned in the Seventh Five-
Year Plan, to increase efficiency, and to maintain equity in distribution,
China will need continuing economic reforms. China will need to import more
technology, increase trade, and expand investment. In the next few years,
therefore, the Bank can best assist China by increasing its access to foreign
technology and capital and supporting the implementation of reforms that will
help to increase the efficiency of resource use dnd reduce poverty.
24.       To address China's objective of updating technology, the Bank will
play the role of an intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry, agri-
culture and social sectors, the Bank will contribute to technology transfer by
bringing the Bank's experience to bear on project design and implementation
and by helping China to seek appropriate technical solutions through interna-
tional competitive bidding, training, and foreign technical assistance.
25.       Bank assistance will be closely linked with the Government's reform
efforts. There are five major elements common to both rural and urban reform
in China that will be the focus of the Bcnk's involvement. First, institu-
tional change, involving both the separation of economic and administrative
functions and further decentralization of decisionmaking, will extend to every
sector in which the Bank is involved. Second, financial sector reform,
primarily development of financial institutions, has become a focus of Bank
assistance. Third, improving planning and project analysis will be critical
to reform in sectors such as agriculture and industry, where decisions are now
being made by households and independent enterprises, as well as in infra-
structure where direct government involvement will be required. The Bank will
therefore continue its emphasis on introducing appraisal methods and financial
planning as well as analysis of intersectoral issues. Fourth, the Bank will
be involved in the Government's major program of price reform and development
of indirect levers such as control via money, credit and fiscal policies. And
finally, the Bank will support reforms in health, education and other social
services and measures, in particular, to address the problems of poor regions.



-8-
Economic and Sector Work
26.       The Bank's economic and sector work in China aims at expanding the
understanding of the structure and direction of the Chinese economy and of the
tools of economic management. This work provide: a foundation for Bank Croup
lending and for the dialogue with the Government on development option. and
policies. The Bank's program of e.onomic and sector work in China is in four
main areas. The first consists of studies aimed at providing timely advice on
the macrosystemic elements of economic reform. Past work has included two
major economic reports, and a third will be produced this year based on the
findings of an FY86 mission which studied the evolving processes of mobiliza-
tion, intermediation and allocation of investment resources in China. A stuay
on policy options to reform China's external trade and borrowing regimes is
now under way and wilL be completed in FY87.
27.       A second area of the program is concerned with macroeconomic manage-
ment. Working in close cooperation with the IMF, the Bank will assist China
in examining medium-term macroeconomic prospects, with particular attention to
fiscal, balance of payments and external debt trends and related policy
issues. The Bank will also continue to organize seminars on macroeconomic
issues.
28.       The third area is sector analysis to provide support to the reform
process at the sectoral and micro levels, to strengthen sector planning and to
underpin the development of the Bank's lending program. Emphasis will be
given to sector work in industry, energy and transport, reflecting priorities
identified for the Seventh Five-Year Plan.
29.       The fourth area of economic and sector work is continued collabora-
tive economic study with the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and other
Chinese research institutions. This type of collaboration has proven to be an
effective means of introducing Chinese academics and technicians to modern
research concepts and techniques. A study of state enterprise management has
been completed, and work is now underway on a similar study of township and
village collective enterprises, which are expected to become increasingly
important industrial organizations in the reformed system.
Lending Operations
30.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in
May 1980, 43 projects involving lending of $4,266.1 million to China have been
approved.  Of the projects, thirteen have been in the agriculture sector,
eleven in energy, six in transport, four in zndustry, four in education, two
each in health and technical cooperation and one in water supply. In FY85,
IFC made its first investment in China of $17.02 million for automobile
manufacturing.
31.       In addition to the proposed project and the already approved Red
Soils Area Development and the Shuikou Hydroelectric Power projects, we expect
to present to the Board this year projects in port development, industry, edu-
cation, agriculture, urban sanitation and highway development. For FY88 and
beyond, we expect the lending program for China to continue to grow from



- 9 -
current levels. Infrastructure projects in energy and transport will remain
priorities. Technical renovation of enterprises, particularly in industry,
will be given greater attention and support as will the regional approach to
project development, which is the basis of a proposed project to meet the
needs of Cansu province.
32.       In the energy sector, future Bank lending will be aimed at improving
efficiency of energy consumption and expanding energy production. For
example, in the coal subsector, we will assist in upgrading the facilities and
operations of existing mines and in transferring improved technology for mines
under construction or in operation. In power, we will assist China in tech-
nology transfer, system planning, staff training and institution building. In
the petroleum subsector, the rationale for project involvement gill lie in the
identification, packaging and transfer of specialized technologies as well as
in the strengthening of investment pLanning and management capabilities.
33.       Future transport projects will be aimed at contributing to China's
efforts to efficiently meet the transport requirements of its growing
economy. In roads, major changes in organization and financing will be
required as a result of administrative decentralization and introduction of
the production responsibility system in rural areas. In railways, we will
focus on technologies to improve domestic production of railway equipment and
materials in addition to our work on line construction and electrification.
We also intend to broaden our involvement in ports to include coastal shipping
and inland water transport. For all transport subsectors, we will support
efforts to improve financial analysis and investment planning.
34.       Bank lending in industry will continue to support financial interme-
diaries which provide credit to state and collective enterprises. In
addition, we will expand lending through direct and subsector operations to
upgrade technology, conserve energy, and improve overall organization and
management, particularly in fertilizer, cement, machine tools and other
capital goods industries.
35.       Agriculture lending will focus on developing institutions to provide
services to individual farmers and to monitor and stimulate change in the pace
and pattern of agricultural development. The shift from grant to loan finance
and the increased autonomy of the rural banking system will continue to be
supported through rural credit projects. We will also assist with the train-
ing, research, extension, and other service activities of the ministries
concerned with agriculture. In addition, we expect to finance programs for
specialized agricultural development such as livestock and for irrigation and
area development.
36.       Bank lending in education will suppport China's efforts to expand
and improve the quality of higher education, develop technical and vocational
education and strengthen basic education by improving training of teachers and
administrators, increasing domestic capacity to produce teaching materials and
educational equipment, and raising the quality of schools administration at
the provincial level.



- 10 -
37.       Project preparation in the urban sector is currently concentrated in
Shanghai on efforts to improve services, especially in environmental upgrading
and development of municipal institutions. Future lending is expected to
include support for development of medium-size and small urban areas in
specific provinces. In addition, we expect to continue lending for rural
water supply. Bank lending in health will provide access to new medical
technologies for more efficient health care in both the lingering problems of
communicable disease, particularly in poor rural areas, and the emerging
problems of chronic disease. This Will involve further support for medical
training and planning and management cf service delivery systems. Projects
will also support the reform of systems for supplying and financing health
services.
38.       Cofinancing with multilateral and bilateral agencies has been
arranged for projects in coal, power, transport, agriculture and rural water
supply and will remain a feature of our assistance program. We will explore
further options for cofinancing with export credit agencies. Commercial bank
cofinancing and the use of B-loans also appear viable, particularly as China
increases the overall volume of its foreign borrowing. In technical assist-
ance, we will continue to incorporate into projects components for training,
overseas study, and access to foreign expertise. In addition, we will
continue our close collaboration with UNDP, particularly through our role as
executing agency for a second JNDP umbrella project in China. EDI activities
remain an important element of the Bank's program and in coming years will
provide an extensive program of policy seminars for senior Chinese officials,
and economic and financial management courses and sector-specific training for
officials from core and line agencies.
Implementation
39.       Project implementation is generally proceeding well.  Most project
agencies, as well as the Ministry of Finance and the State Planning
Commission, have established and staffed offices to handle Bank projects.
Disbursement performance has also been satisfactory. Special accounts have
been established for a majority of the approved projects and have helped to
speed disbursements. In October 1985, the Bank opened a resident office in
Beijing to support further expansion of the lending program, accelerate
project preparation, improve project implementation and further economic and
sector work.
PART III - AGRICULTURE
The Agriculture Sector
40.       Agriculture in China, including crops, livestock, forestry and
fisheries, provides sustenance to over one billion people, is the source of
income for some 190 million farm families, and accounts for about 35% of the
country's GDP. Only about 100 million ha of China's land area of 960 million
ha are arable. Farming systems are intensive, with large inputs of labor,
chemical and organic fertilizers and water. Nearly half of the arable land is
irrigated. Food grains occupy about 70Z of the crop land and account for



- 11 -
about one-third of total agricultural output. This intensive system of food
production has allowed China to meet the basic food requirements of its
population (about 22% of the world's total) from less than 8% of the world's
arable land. Kajor revisions in farm poLicies since 1979, most importantly, a
shift from communal. to family farming and major increases in farm prices,
have led to rapid growth and diversification in agricultural production. The
system of contracting production to small-scale family farms, within the
framework of collective or state ownership of land and major fixed assets, has
given farmers more flexibility in determining what crops to grow, how much to
produce and where to market their output.  In the period 1980-85, production
increased by 10% per year compared with an average of 3% per year in the
preceding 23 years.  In 1985, the Government began a new phase of reform,
replacing compulsory procurement quotas with voluntary contracts, adjusting
procurement prices and greatly enlarging the role of the market.  These
measures contributed to a decline in grain and cotton area and output as
farmers increasingly shifted production into other industrial crops and
livestock. As the current reforms are extended, the challenge to China's
agriculture will be to maintain an adequate growth rate while accommodating a
continued shift in consumption patterns.
Sectoral Objectives and Bank Operations
41.       The Government's long-term objectives in the agriculture sector are
(a) to increase and diversify the production of food, feed and industrial
crops to meet requirements created by population and income growth, and (b) to
raise incomes and employment opportunities in rural areas. Given China's
shortage of arable land, development planners have focused on the need to
increase the productivity of existing cropped areas and to develop efficiently
the remaining areas of unutilized land. Steps are also being taken to
stabilize food grain output at the 1983 level, increase production and quality
of animal feed, livestock, fruit, fish, and industrial crops, and expand agro-
processing activities so as to raise the value-added in the farm sector.
Support has been given to measures to further improve producer incentives,
including (a) extension of contracting systems which permit household-level
management within both the collective and state farm sectors; (b) continued
expansion of the role of the market; (c) adjustment of producer prices; and
(d) establishment of private, public, or joint public-private enterprises in
rural agro-processing, transport and commerce.
42.       The Bank's strategy for lending in China's agriculture sector has
been to support the Government's efforts as outlined above. Lending to date
has included two land development projects (North China Plain [Cr. 1261-CRA],
Heilongjiang Land Reclamation [Ln. 2261-CHA/Cr. 1347-CHA]) and six projects
for strengthening agricultural support services (A;ricultural Education and
Research [Cr. 1297.CHA], Second Agricultural Education [La. 2444-CHA,
Cr. 1500-CHA], Second Agricultural Research Project [Cr. 1516-CHA], Rural
Credit I [Cr. 1462-CHA] and II [Cr. 1642-CHA], and the Seeds Project
[Cr. 1577-aBA]).  Future lending is expected to include support for
specialized product subsectors and area development, along with selected
service activities. Projects of the specialized product subsector type
include the Rubber Development Project (Cr. 1417-CiA, Special Fund-F5-CHA),
the Forestry Development Project (Cr. 1605-CHA), the Freshwater Fisheries



- 12 -
Project (Cr. 1689-CiA), and proposed livestock and agro-processing projects.
The area development approach, which generally targets difficult agro-
technical development problems, combines assistance to crop and livestock
development and the strengthening of various support services. The Pishihang-
Chaohu Area Development Project (Ln. 2479-CHA/Cr. 1606-CRA) was the first of
this type and the Red Soils Area Development Project (Cr. 1733-CHA) the
second. Further projects of this type include the proposed project as well as
a project in Gansu Province. The lending program will continue to support
repeater projects in subsectors which are large and diverse--e.g., livestock
and agro-processing-or in subsectors which give important support to the
development of small-scale, family farming-e.g., rural credit. Implementa-
tion of ongoing Bank Group financed projects in the agriculture sector is on
schedule. Notable features of all the projects are the high standard of
management at the central, provincial and county levels and the enthusiastic
participation of the collectives and farmers.
Agriculture in Xinjiang
43.       The Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region is a frontier region in north-
west China bordering Mongolia, the Soviet Union, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and
India. Xinjiang is almost entirely surrounded by high mountains and is
divided into distinct northern and southern zones--centering on the Junggar
Basin and Tarim Basin, respectively--by the Tianshan range which extends
across the region from Soviet Central Asia for some 1,600 km. Both the Tarim
Basin and the the smaller Junggar Basin to the north are dominated by vast
desert areas fringed with a string of oases which support settled agricul-
ture. In the less arid north, large areas of productive natural grassland in-
tervene between desert and oasis. With an area of more than 1.6 million sq km
and a population of nearly 14 million, Xinjiang is China's largest province
and one of the least densely populated. Minorities, mostly Uygurs (6 million)
and Kazaks (1 million), comprise about 60% of the population. About 70% of
the population is rural with nearly 101 engaged in animal husbandry.
44.       Land  and Water Resources.  About two-thirds of Xinjiang's total
surface area of 160 million ha consist of areas unsuitable for agriculture,
including sandy desert, steep mountain terrain, and gravel and rock-covered
wasteland. The remaining third includes about 50 million ha of grassland and
3 million ha of cultivated land. Grains (primarily wheat and maize) account
for nearly 70% of the sown area, cash crops (cotton, sugar beet and various
oil bearing crops) about 20Z, and fruits and vegetables about 10%. Rainfall
is low-ranging between 200 and 400 mm-over most of the arable land and
irrigation is essential for crop production. Daytime temperatures in the
summer (April to September) reach 300 C but nights are much cooler. The
frost-free period ranges from 110 to 190 days.   The winters are cold with
temperatures below freezing from October to February. Snow melt from the
surrounding mountains is the main source of surface water. Rivers rise in
April and flows continue into August. Good quality groundwater is found over
wide areas especially in the Junggar Basin, and in some areas artesian
conditions exist. Snow melt which sometimes occurs in the form of torrential
runoff is the main source of recharge.



- 13 -
45.       Xinjiang's State Farm System.  The Xinjiang Agriculture, Industry
and Trade Corporation (XAITC) is part of a national network of state farms
organizations which has at its apex the Bureau of State Farms (BSF) within the
Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries (HAAF). BSF, formerly
the Ministry of State Farms and Land Reclamation, is responsible for overall
policy, planning, and administration of China's 2,048 state farms, about 30%
of which are in eight major border regions and the rest distributed fairly
evenly over 21 provinces and municipalities. BSF directly manages 604 state
farms in Guangdong, Heilongjiang, Yunnan and Xinjiang.  These farms account
for about half of the work force, two-thirds of the cultivated land, and half
of the grain output for all state farms. The remaining 1,444 state farms are
managed by provinces or counties and funded from local budgets. China's state
farms altogether manage about 30 million ha, which include 4.1 million ha
under cultivation, or 4.1% of the nation's total cultivated area. Although
the term "Corporation" in XAITC's title is an accurate translation from
Chinese, the XAITC is not a corporation in the usual sense since its role is
primarily planning, coordinating and supervising diverse development
activities. XAITC is responsible for supervising operations of over 400
enterprises under its direct control, allocating to its 14 branch companies
the capitaL and operating funds from the state budget, and approving branch
company investment programs. The 14 branch companies supervise operations of
medium-scale agro-processing and industrial enterprises and provide technical
services to the 171 state farms under their jurisdiction. Each branch company
has an average of 12 satellite farms with a total population of about 150,000.
46.       Past Development.  In Xinjiang, as in other of China's less-
developed border regions, state farms organizations have played the dominant
role in economic growth and modernization since 1949. Key tasks have included
developing land, improving infrastructure, managing investments in agriculture
and indur*ry, introducing new farming technologies, and providing technical
assistance to the collective sector. By 1979, state farms development pro-
grams in Xinjiang had brought positive results. Compared to 1949 the total
amount of cultivated land increased by 260X, total sown area by 220%, grain
production by nearly 400%, cotton production by 1000%, oilseed crop production
by more than 300% and livestock numbers by 230%.  The period of greatest
growth occurred from 1950 to 1966 when the area sown with grains increased to
2.4 million ha or 1.5 million ha more than 1949. Within the overall growth
pattern, there was a shift in regional growth rates with the center of produc-
tion moving from the Tarim Basin with its traditional oasis-based agriculture
to the Urumqi-Bole corridor in the north.
47.       Since 1979, as part of its overall program of economic reforms, the
Government has made changes in state farm operations designed to rationalize
use of resources and maximize profits. First, state farm organizations have
been given a greater degree of financial autonomy, including greater control
over investment decisions and responsibility for profits and losses. Second,
farm households have been given added incentive to increase production as a
result of the newly-instituted production responsibility system (PRS) which
uses contracts linking income to output performance to govern relations
between producer and state farm. Third, new enterprises are being estab-
lished, particularly in agro-processing, with a view to achieving higher
value-added. Increasingly, state farm enterprises are forming joint ventures



- 14 -
with a range of collective and state farm organizations--some of them outside
the province--and with foreign firms. These measures, along with such factors
as favorable weather and increased use of modern inputs, have contributed to
Xinjiang's nearly 9% annual growth rate since 1980. This growth record
includes a 6% p.a. increase in grain production despite a reduction in the
area sown to grain. Rural incomes per capita rose from Y 198 in 1980 to Y 355
in 1984. Despite recent gains, Xinjiang's per capita Gross Value of Agricul-
tural and Industrial Output (GVAIO) remains at only 78% of the national
average. This reflects an economy based largely on agriculture in an area
where farming is constrained by a short growing season. The critical factor
in the continued growth of Xinjiang's economy is making more efficient use of
available resources. There is potential for bringing more land under irriga-
tion by developing unused surface water and groundwater resources. Fencing
and aerial seeding have produced promising results in raising the carrying
capacity of the region's grasslands. Prospects are good for rapid growth of
agro-processing since Xinjiang is an important producer of raw materials such
as wool, cotton, and grapes and market trends for these products are favor-
able. Moreover, under the Seventh Five-Year Plan, the railroad will be
extended to the western border, making transport of processed products feasi-
ble and less costly.
Project Rationale
48.       Current Government policy calls for accelerating development of
China's poorer provinces in the north and west where gains from recent econo-
mic reforms have been less than in the more prosperous southern and eastern
provinces. Bank Group support for this policy is being sought by the Govern-
ment through participation in area development projects in Gansu and
Xinjiang. The proposed project would serve as a model for more efficient use
of Xinjiang's arid lands for crop and livestock production. It would mainly
involve development of 13 state farms in three locations-Bole, Zhaosu, and
Emin-near Xinjiang's western border. These areas have some of the best
undeveloped or partially developed land in the region, abundant water resour-
ces, an adequate road system, access to rail service on completion of the
westward extension, and well-developed technical and managerial skills in
existing state farms organizations. The seven additional project state farms
in the Hami/Turpan area to the east of Uirumqi are favorable in terms of cli-
mate, soil and water conditions for growing grapes, a high value crop with an
assured market.
49.       In  Xinjiang there is scope for introduction of better land
levelling methods; more efficient techniques of water use, including, in
selected areas, use of sprinklers; more advanced technology in the livestock
sector such as improved pastures, animal breeds and manAgement; improved crop
varieties; and more advanced and efficient processing facilities. Bank
involvement in the design of the project and its subsequent implementation
would facilitate the adoption of new technology. Bank participation would
also help in promoting a development approach which integrates land develop-
ment, raw materials production, agro-processing and marketing. Project
execution would be the responsibility of XAITC which has long experience in
the project areas in organization and management of irrigation and land
development programs. Project-supported crop and livestock production would



- 15 -
be carried out by state farm households or groups under the PRS which has been
widely adopted in both the collective and state farm sectors in Xinjiang.
Through established channels of technical assistance from state farms to
collectives, collective farmers in areas adjacent to the project areas would
benefit from the use of the project's new technology and have access to
processing plants and support facilities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.       The  original project proposal, prepared by BSF and XAITC, was
reviewed by a Bank Group mission in September 1985. During that and a subse-
quent mission, discussions involving these organizations and Bank staff led to
various changes in the project's scope and technical features. Negotiations
were held in Washington from January 12 to 16, 1987 with a Chinese delegation
led by Mr. Zhu Ping, Division Chief in the External Finance Department of
Ministry of Finance (HOF). A Staff Appraisal Report No. 6425-CRA, dated
February 3, 1987 is being distributed separately.   Special features of the
project are given in Annex III. A map showing project locations (IBRD 20152)
is attached.
Project Objective
51.       The main objective of the proposed project is to assist the Covern-
ment in making more productive use of Xinjiang's arid lands for crop and live-
stock production. The project includes irrigation of 32,300 ha for food,
fiber, and fodder crops, improvement of 44,700 ha of rainfed pasture, intro-
duction of improved animal breeds, and construction of agro-processing plants.
Project Features
52.       The main features of the project are as follows:
(a) construction of irrigation works on 32,300 ha of which 20,900 ha are
presently uncultivated;
(b) improvement of rainfed pasture on 44,700 ha through fertilizing,
fencing and seeding;
(c) provision of improved animal breeds, veterinary and livestock
equipment, and construction of animal sheds;
(d) construction of seven agro-processing plants and provision of
equipment;
(e) provision of farm machinery and construction equipment;
(f) construction of housing, community facilities, and warehouses in
newly developed areas; and
(g) local and overseas training and study tours.



- 16 -
The project would be carried out on 13 state farms in three locations near
Xinjiang's western border--Bole, Zhaosu, and Emin--and on seven state farms to
the east of Urumqi at Hami and Turpan.
53.       Irrigation.  About 16,700 ha of uncultivated land on five state
farms in Bole would be developed for irrigated crop production and 2,700 ha on
three state farms would be developed for irrigated pasture. The land to be
developed for crops is in numerous small blocks of 100 to 500 ha. About 250
tubewells would be provided to supplement surface water at times of low flow
and during periods of peak demand. The 2,700 ha to be developed for irrigated
pasture would be divided into blocks of about 100 ha irrigated solely from
groundwater. The 19,400 ha of newly developed crop land and pasture in Bole
would be linked to the rural road system by upgrading existing tracks and
adding some new roads. In Zhaosu, the 4,000 ha to be developed for irrigated
fodder already receives water from the Hasang River through a primitive system
of canals. The system would be improved by providing concrete lining in two
main canals and constructing laterals, sublaterals, and service units as
proposed for Bole. In the Emin area, the project would install a gravity
pressure sprinkler irrigation system on 5,800 ha out of a total of 50,000 ha
of hilly or sloping land where water distribution is currently a problem. At
Hami, about 1,500 ha would be developed for irrigated grape production by con-
verting 1,100 ha of irrigated wheat to grapes and reclaiming 400 ha of waste-
land. A further 1,100 ha of wasteland would be reclaimed to compensate for
the loss of the irrigated wheat areas.
54.       Pasture Improvement.  Three types of natural grassland would be
dealt with in this component.  The first is low quality rangeland in areas of
low rainfall (2,700 ha at Bole). This land would be fenced in 200 ha blocks
and seeded with a local variety of xerophytic shrub. The second type of
grassland is in areas of higher rainfall (23,300 ha at Zhaosu and 8,700 ha at
Emin) where fencing permits longer and controlled grazing periods. On the
third type of grassland (10,000 at Zhaosu), natural conditions favor the use
of more costly inputs such as fertilizer and improved pasture species.
55.       Livestock Development.  Improved breeds to be imported to upgrade
the local herds would include 320 head of Simmental and Holstein cattle,
110 Herino stud rams and 60 Yorkshire pigs. Equipment would be procured for
veterinary and artificial insemination centers on each of the 13 state farms
in Bole, Zhaosu and Emin. The project would also construct about 180,000 sq m
of animal sheds in the foothills of the Zhaosu and Emin project areas to pro-
vide shelter during the period of winter grazing. It would also provide
equipment to mechanize sheep shearing and improve wool handling on one farm in
each of the project areas.
56.       Agro-processing.  The project would support an agro-processing
component based on expanded production of raw materials as a result of the
project.  XAITC has proposed to construct and equip two slaughterhouses (at
Bole and Zhaosu) two wool processing plants (at Emin and Yining City), two
cottonseed oil plants (at Bole and Kuitun City), and a raisin plant (at
Hami). Detailed technical studies of the seven plants have been prepared by
XAITC with the assistance of central and regional design institutes specia-
lizing in the various products. Preliminary estimates of economic and finan-



- 17 -
cial rates of return for these plants appear satisfactory except in the case
of the Emin wool processing plant which is marginal. To confirm the economic
viability of the six plants and to reassess inclusion of the Emin plant in the
project, detailed studies of financial and economic feasibility of proposed
agro-processing plants would be carried out by XAITC and submitted to IDA for
review and approval before bid invitation. An assurance to this effect was
obtained from the Government at negotiations. An understanding was reached at
negotiations on the form and content of the feasibility studies, and that an
economic rate of return of at least 121 would be a criterion of acceptance.
In the event that any of the seven agro-processing facilities show economic
rates of return below 121, revised or alternative proposals for processing
agricultural products produced by the project would be considered as
candidates for project financing.
57.       Training.  The project would provide training to upgrade the skills
of local state farms personnel. Training in the operation, maintenance and
repair of machinery and equipment would be provided in part by equipment sup-
pliers as included in their contracts. This has worked well in previous IDA-
financed projects in China. Additional training in this area and other fields
such as the design and installation of sprinkler irrigation systems and
fencing systems, the selection of cold tolerant pasture species, and the
management of agro-processing plants, would be provided through study tours
abroad, short-term courses conducted locally and overseas, and visits of
experts to the project area for three to four months. While the project
provides necessary funding for these activities, some of the training may be
provided by bilateral sources who have expressed interest. During negotia-
tions an assurance was obtained that the training component would be carried
out in accordance with a program acceptable to IDA, and that the details and
schedule would be submitted for review by June 30, 1987.
Water supply and Demand
58.       Mountain streams fed by snow melt are the main sources of surface
water for the project area. One of the project areas, Zhaosu, is traversed by
an international waterway, namely the Yili River. Zhaosu lies within the
catchment of fasang, a small branch of the Tekes River which is a major
tributary of the Yili. The entire normal flow of the Hasang is already being
abstracted for irrigation. For most of the year there is no flow from the
Hasang into the Tekes river which originates in the USSR and eventually joins
the much larger Yili River which flows from China into the USSR. Project
works in the Zhaosu area consist of rehabilitating the existing irrigation
system, thus making more efficient use of available water and benefitting a
larger area. The project component would not affect the quality and quantity
of flows into the USSR, and since there are no relevant riparian agreements,
no notification of riparians would be necessary.
Implementation Schedule
59.       The project would be constructed over a period of about five years
from the start of the 1987 construction season in March. Land development,
irrigation works and building construction would be mostly confined to the
period March through October. Bids would be invited for construction equip-



- 18 -
ment in early 1987 and the equipment would be delivered well in advance of the
1988 construction season. Work would begin in March 1987 using existing
equipment supplemented by some imported equipment for which retroactive
financing would be provided. Procurement of agricultural machinery would
begin in 1988 so that the machinery becomes available as the new land is
developed. Procurement of agro-processing equipment would also begin in 1988
and the new plants would come on line in 1989.
Cost Estimates
60.       The total project cost is estimated at $115 million, with a foreign
exchange component of $70 mill;on or 60% of the total project cost. Cost
estimates for the irrigation works are based on the quantity estimates derived
from already completed alignment surveys. Unit prices are based on similar
work recently carried out in the project areas updated to December-1986
prices. Unit prices for work items employing project-supplied equipment--
e.g., land levelling and canal excavation-include fuel, operator costs and
overhead but exclude owning costs for equipment. All unit prices include 10%
for engineering and management. Physical contingencies of 15% have been added
to civil works costs. Price escalation for both foreign and local costs when
expressed in US dollars is based on annual international price escalation
rates for all goods and services of 3% in 1987, 12 in 1988-90, and 3.5% in
1991-93; and when expressed in yuan, is based on price escalation rates of
6.51 in 1987-90 and 4.5% in 1991-93.
Financing
61.       Bank Group assistance would be an IDA Credit of SDR 57.3 million
($70 million equivalent) and would cover the foreign exchange component which
is 60% of the total project cost. The balance of $45 million would be met by
the Government ($22 million) and XAITC and branch companies ($23 million).
Procurement
62.       Agro-processing equipment ($13.0 million), construction and farm
machinery and vehicles ($15.0 million), construction materials ($10.0 mil-
lion), electrification materials ($1.0 million) and livestock ($2.0 million)
would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Qualified domestic manufacturers would
be awarded a preference over competing foreign bidders of 15% or the customs
duty, whichever is lower, in bid comparison. Preparation of bid documents
would be carried out by the China National Machinery Import and Export
Corporation (CNNIEC). Bid invitation, evaluation and award recommendations
would be the responsibility of CIIEC in consultation with XAITC. Boilers and
storage bins for agro-processing plants ($3.0 million) would be procured
through local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with procedures accep-
table to IDA; experience in China has shown that such bulky components can be
fabricated close to the project areas and are of no interest to foreign
bidders. Miscellaneous equipment such as truck trailers, small agricultural
implements, pumps and motors for sprinkler systems ($1.0 million) would also
be procured through LCB. Civil works, including land development and irriga-
tion ($40.0 million) and building construction ($23.5 million), widely scat-



- 19 -
tered and carried out over five years, would be too dispersed to be suitable
for ICB. These works would be carried out by the state farms construction
teams in accordance with locaL procedures including force account. Goods
costing not more than $150,000 per contract and aggregating to not more than
$4.0 million would be procured on the basis of quotations from three qualified
suppLiers in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. Prior IDA review
of contract awards would include all ICB contracts and all other contracts for
goods exceeding $500,000. Consultants would be selected under terms of
reference agreed with IDA and in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines on the
use of consultants.
PROCUREMENT PROFILE /a
($ million)
ICB       LCB       Other /a    Total
Irrigation                                                    40.0         40.0
(20.0)      (20.0)
Buildings                                                     23.5         23.5
(0.0)       (0.0)
Agro-processing equipment               13.0        3.0        2.0         18.0
(13.0)     (3.0)       (2.0)      (18.0)
Machinery & vehicles                    15.0        1.0        2.0         18.0
(15.0)     (1.0)       (2.0)      (18.0)
Livestock                                2.0                                2.0
(2.0)                             (2.0)
Contruction materials                   10.0                               10.0
(10.0)                            (10.0)
Electrification                          1.0                   0.5          1.5
(1.0)                 (0.0)       (1.0)
Training                                                       2.0          2.0
(1.0)       (1.0)
Total                             41.0        4.0        68.0       115.0
(41.0)     (4.0)      (25.0)      (70.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA and
include contingencies.
/a    Includes force account construction, goods procured through shopping
procedures and training and study tours.



- 20 -
Disbursements
63.       Disbursements for agro-processing equipment, construction and farm
machinery, vehicles, livestock, and construction and electrification mate-
rials would be made at 100% of the foreign exchange cost for directly imported
items or 1001 of the ex-factory cost for locally manufactured items and 75Z of
local expenditures for imported items procured locally. Disbursements for
overseas training and consultant services would be at 100% of total expendi-
tures. Retroactive financing of SDR 410,000 would be provided for con-
struction machinery expenditures incurred after July 1, 1986. Disbursements
for overseas training, contracts for consultants, equipment, livestock,
machinery and vehicles costing less than $200,000, land development and
irrigation works would be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs). In
the case of land developmcnt and irrigation works, SOEs would be supported by
progress reports showing physical quantities and unit prices which would be
updated annually by the project offices and reviewed by IDA. Supporting
documents would be retained in the project offices and be made available to
IDA supervision missions. In order to provide for the efficient disbursement
of the credit proceeds, a special account would be opened in US dollars in a
bank acceptable to IDA with an initial deposit of US dollar equivalent of
SDR 4,100,000. Applications for replenishment of the special account would be
submitted quarterly, or whenever the special account is drawn down to 50% of
its initial deposit, whichever comes first. It is estimated that the project
would be completed by December 31, 1991 and the closing date would be December
31, 1992. The project disbursement profile is in line with that for specific
investment loans in China.
Accounts and Audits
64.       Records of expenditures on civil works, machinery and vehicles,
construction and electrification materials, and livestock would be maintained
by the project units of participating state farms. These racords would be
forwarded to branch company project offices which would prepare consolidated
accounts including their own records of expenditures on civil works and agro-
processing equipment. XAITC, in turn, would compile a complete report on
project expenditures including expenditures on training, to be submitted to
MAAF's BSF for review.  Assurances were obtained from the Government at
negotiations that XAITC would maintain consolidated project accounts for
auditing annually by the State Audit Agency and that the audited accounts
would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each financial
year.
Environmental Effects
65.       Project activities would improve environmental conditions and no
detrimental effects are anticipated. Drainage and irrigation would reduce
salinity and drought and improve the environment for crop production. The
tree crop-pasture intercropping would reduce wind erosion by providing addi-
tional ground cover. The additional cover provided by trees and crops would
lead to an increase in the number and species of wildlife in the project
areas. Construction of waste control facilities is being included in the



- 21 -
design for each of the agro-processing plants. An assurance was obtained
from the Covernment at negotiations that a report containing detailed decrip-
tion of waste disposal measures for each agro-processing plant would be
submitted to IDA for review and concurrence prior to bid invitation.
Project Organization and Implementation
66.       The proposed project would be executed by XAITC under the overall
direction of BSF in MAAF. BSF's Foreign Investment Management Office, which
is currently supervising three ongoing Bank Group projects (Heilongjiang,
DaC -vuevelojmnent, and Seeds), would provide general guidance to XAITC,
particularly in procurement matters, and would serve as the main link with
IDA. XAITC and the four branch companies involved in the project--Bole, Yili
(Zhaosu), Emin and Hami--have established coordinating committees to provide
policy guidance and facilitate inter-agency coordination. Project offices
(POs) and Project Units (PUs) at XAITC, branch company, state farm and enter-
prise levels would handle the day-to-day affairs of the project. At the XAITC
level, the Xinjiang Foreign Investment Management Office (XFIMO) established
at XAITC headquarters in Urumqi to handle Xinjiang's components of the Seeds
and Second Agricultural Research Projects, would be expanded to manage overall
implementation of project activities. XFIMO, staffed by experienced technical
and managerial personnel, consists of divisions of finance and budget, equip-
ment procurement, technical assistance and training, and monitoring and evalu-
ation. It would supervise project implementation activities of the partici-
pating branch companies (4) and state farms (20); prepare annual work programs
and budgets for land development and other project works; help coordinate
inter-agency activities; secure all Regional Government approvals; review
technical standards for design and construction of project works; approve
construction contracts and supervise construction; nominate candidates for
training; and arrange for distribution of equipment and machinery financed by
the IDA credit. XFIKO would approve disbursement of IDA and Government funds
by the People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC) to branch company and state
farm accounts and monitor repayment of these funds.
67.       The branch company POs would be responsible for preparing prelimin-
ary site surveys and designs, construction contracts with company construction
units and annual budgets. They would also, with the assistance of the local
PCBC branch, supervise construction progress and coordinate loan collection
for project state farms and enterprises. Project Units (PUs) have been estab-
lished for each of the 20 state farms and seven agro-processing facilities.
State farm PUs would be primarily involved in arranging for construction of
project works; specifically, they would organize labor for such tasks as road
construction, tree planting and erection of fences and would contract with the
state farms construction teams for such mechanized work as land levelling,
excavation of drainage ditches and tubewell construction. They would also be
responsible for the project during the production phase including supervision
of contracts with farm families and groups. PUs for the agro-processing
facilities would work directly with the branch company POs in arranging for
construction of buildings and procurement and installation of equipment. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that XFIMO, the branch company POs, and
the state farm and enterprise PUs would be maintained during the project
implementation period with staff, functions, and responsibilities acceptable



- 22 -
to IDA. Land developed by the project for crop and livestock production would
be worked by farm families or groups under the production responsibility
system. Project agro-processing facilities would be run as state-owned enter-
prises eegistered with the General Administration of Industry and Commerce in
accordance with State Council Regulations.
Financial Arrangements
68.       Terms and Conditions.  In line with current budgetary practice,
proceeds of the IDA Credit would be paused internally by HOF through MAAF to
XAITC at 4% interest rate per annum, with repayment over 20 years including a
five-year grace period. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by XAITC.
Domestic funds, which would account for about 40% of project costs, would come
from contributions by the Central Government in the form of a special
budgetary allocation and from the resources of XAITC, its branches, individual
state farms and enterprises. Project investments in agro-processing enter-
prises would be funded by a mix o5 interest-bearing loans, equity, and local
contributions generated by enterprise earnings. Costs of civil works for
these enterprises would be covered by local contributions. For IDA funds
provided by XAITC to agro-processing enterprises under the project, depending
on the financial requirements of the enterprise, up to 50% of the funds could
be treated as equity investment by XAITC (or its branches) in the enterprise,
while the remainder would be passed on as a loan at an interest rate in line
with prevailing rates applied by the Agricultural Bank of China to comparable
loans. An assurance to this effect was obtained from the Covernment at nego-
tiations. Loan repayments and XAITC receipts from enterprise distribution of
profits would provide XAITC's resources for repayment of obligations to HOF.
An assurance was also obtained from the Government that proceeds of the Credit
provided to individual state farms for land development would be fully
recovered through XAITC's normal contractual arrangements on terms equivalent
to the blended cost of these funds. Farms would recover costs from project
brigades and households. In line with current practice under the production
responsibility system, state farms would enter into contracts with these
households or groups specifying the farm's respcnsibility regarding farm
management, input supply, and commodity purchase and the farmer's obligation
to repay the costs of inputs, services, and capital investment.
Production, Marketing and Prices
69.       Annual incremental crop production on the  project's irrigated area
of 32,300 ha would include 21,300 tons of wheat, other grains, and oilseeds,
13,800 tons of cotton and cottonseed, 24,000 tons of grapes, 78,000 tons of
feed grain and fodder (expressed in hay equivalent), and additional quantities
of vegetables, melons, fruit and timber. In combination with the incremental
production of feed grains, fodder, and crop residues on p-oject irrigated
lands, increased production of pasture on 44,700 ha would be sufficient to
meet the feed requirements of 156,000 sheep, 10,500 cattle and 1,250 sows. At
full development, incremental production of cottonseed, grapes, live animals,
and wool would supply 45%, 100%, 50%, and 25Z of the raw material requirements
of the project's agro-processing industries. Additional quantitiee of raw
materials would be purchased from nearby state farms and collectives in order
to meet agro-processing targets at full development of 7,700 tons of refined



- 23 -
cottonseed oil, stearic acid, and margarine; 3,880 tons of raisins; 11,360
tons of fresh and preserved mutton, beef, and pork; 1,135 tons of clean wool
and wook tops and ocher wool products.
70.       The development of an appropriate marketing strategy and correspond-
ing mir of production for Xinjiang's agriculture in the 1990. would take spe-
cial &ccount of its remote location and unusual production potential. Incre-
mental production and sales would be concentrated in high-value products which
could be transported and marketed over long distances. Domestic and interna-
tional markets for incremental project output are expected to range from
favorable to excellent.  The mix of production and marketing strategy fo- the
proposed project accords with this approach.
Benefits, Justification, and Risks
71.       Employment opportunities generated by the prc5ect would help reduce
existing seasonal underemployment among the rural labor force in and around
the project areas. At full development, farming activities on the project's
irrigated areas would create an annual incremental demand for labor of about
2.5 million work days, equivalent to about 15,500 full-time jobs. The project
would also create the equivalent of an additional 5,100 and 3,360 full-time
jobs in animal husbandry and agro-processing respectively. The project would
iaprove living standards and income levels for a totnl of about 24,000 workers
and their families. Excluding income from other sources and using financial
prices for inputs and outputs, the annual per capita income for a farm family
would be about Y 750. Specialized households in the Hami/Turpan project area
would receive net incomes of about Y 850 per capita from grape production.
Full-time employees engaged in animal husbandry or agro-processing would
receive Y 900 to Y 1,100 annually in salaries plus bonuses. Highly skilled
labor and managerial staff would receive about Y 1450 annually.
72.       The  project's overall economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated to
be about 18%, and ranges from 13% for the Zhaosu project area to 23% for the
Bole project area. The ERR for investment in cropping is 29Z and that for
agro-processing is 15%. At a discount rate of 12%, which is considered to
approximate the opportunity cost of capital in China, the net present value of
the project is Y 190 million ($51 million). ERRs were tested for sensitivity
to variations in investment cost, the economic value of labor, projected
prices and yields, a one year lag in the onset of project benefits, and a
combination of & 10% increase in investment cost and a 10% reduction in
yields. The sensitivity analysis shows that the project's economic viability
would remain intact with likely levels of change in any single variable or
combination of variables.
73.       The project faces no significant technical, marketing or organiza-
tional risks. The irrigated crop and pasture improvement programs would apply
methods locally tried and proven to sites selected for their productive poten-
tial, including, especially, the availability of water resources. Farmers
have considerable experience with the crops to be grown and livestock raising
is part of a long tradition in Xinjiang. Moreover, there exists in the
region a well-developed structure of research, extension and training which
has been notably effective in the past in introducing new technologies to



- 24 -
fasmers. The agro-processing technology to be introduced by the project is of
standard design and has been in regular operation in other parts of the
world. To ensure effective transfer of this technology, the project would
provide a program of local and overseas training in addition to training
provided by equipment suppliers. The products to be produced under the
project have large and rapidly growing markets. Given XAITC's long experience
in managing irrigation and land development programs and the fact that project
offices at each level are already in place, no probLems are expected in
project implementation.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
February 5,, 1987
Washington, D.C.



- 25-                                               AINCK I
Page I of 3
Population    s  1,019 .illiw  (mid-1983)
GNP per capLta:  $300 (1983)
CHINA - ECONOIIIC INDFICTOKS
Amount - 1985                            Annual growtb rates (Z)
(million 55 at                     Actual                                    Prolected
Indicator                  current prices)/b 1980  1981   198i  1983  1986/a 798          198S     1901     1985    1989    1990
NAlTIONAL ACCODUIIS /a
CGram  domrttc product        265.300       6.6   4.9    7.8   9.6  14.0    12.3         6.8      6.8       6.8    6.8       6.8
Agrlcltcurs                  81,710      -1.7   6.4   11.2   9.0  13.9    14.2         4.9      4.9       4.9    4.9       4.9
Industry                    133.965      12.3   2.3   7.3   11.4  16.6    18.0         7.7      7.7       7.7    7.7       7.7
Serveies                     49.610       8.2   8.9    3.3   6.5   7.7    10.0         7.9      7.9       7.9    7.9       7.9
Coanumption                   175.780       9.1   5.2   5.9   9.0   12.5    12.5         8.9      7.4       7.4    7.4       7.1
Crons inveantnt               102,100       1.3  -1.8   10.9  15.2  20.7    40.0         2.3      4.8       4.8    5.1       5.7
Export. aE CIFS /a             27,582      17.8  15.7    0.6   9.5   13.0       5.0      8.9      8.8       8.6    8.8       8.3
Iqiorts of ClFsT 7             40.158      16.1  -6.7  -5.7   28.1  Z5.9    60.1         0.0      5.8       5.9    6.0      6.2
Crosm national aawlngs         90,110      -0.2    3.6   17.0  12.0  17.0    21.0        2.4      5.1       5.1    5.6       6.2
PRICES
CDP deflator (1980 - 100)                 100.0  101.8  101.7  102.9  107.6   113.1   118.7   124.7   131.0   137.5   144.4
Exchange rate (Tuon/UOS)                   1.50   1.70   1.89   1.98   2.32    2.95     3.45     3.70     3.70     3.70     3.70
Share of COP at _rket prices (2)                 Average annual increase (2)
t__  ~ at earrent ;rices)                  (at constant 1981 prices)
1960   197   1975   180   1_98   1990-      1960-70  1970-75  I975-80  1980-4i  1984-.9  1189-94
Cross domestic product In     160.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  300.0  100.0        6.1     5.2      6.6      9.0      7.3      6.6
Agriculture                  23.0  35.0  32.8  32.0  30.8  31.3             6.7     3.4      3.3    10.1       5.0      4.8
Industry                     48.0  61.0  45.8  48.0  47.1  49.9            7.8      7.5      9.9      9.6      8.6      7.4
Services                     29.0  24.0  21.4  20.0  21.1   18.8            3.4     4.5      5.4      6.6      8.2      7.5
Consumption                    62.4  70.8  69.1  71.3  66.1  69.3            6.1      4.7      6.4      8.1      8.4     6.8
Gros invesc_at                 37.8  29.2  31.1  30.0  38.4  30.9            9.5      6.9      9.7     11.3      5.1      6.1
Exports of GUFS                 4.8   2.5   5.3   7.1   10.4  10.0          -1.5    10.8       5.7     12.3      8.0      7.7
imports of GCIS                 5.0   2.7   5.5   3.4   15.1  10.2           1.Z    13.9    13.0    12.2         8.4      7.4
Cro - national sawin.p         37.7  29.2  30.9  28.9  33.9  30.7             9.1     6.7      7.2     14.0      4.8     6.2
An X of CDP
1957          1970           1980           1983           1985
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                  28.7           29.6          30.6           27.8           29.3
Current expenditures                              15.1           15.7          23.1           21.6           21.5
Surplus (+3 or deficit (-)                       +13.6         +13.9           .7.5           +6.2           +7.8
Capital expenditure                               13.7           13.3           11.0           7.8            8.2
Foreign finsacing                                  0.7            n.a.          0.5            0.2            0.4
1960-70    1970-75     1975-80    1980-84      1984-89     1989-94
a21113 UIDICATORS
CGP grwth rate (2)                                6.1         5.1         6.4         9.2        7.2         6.6
GNP per capits grouch rate (Z)                    3.5         2.9         5.2         7.9        6.1         5.5
energp coemWtcion groucb rate (2)                -0.3         9.2         5.8         4.1        5.3         4.8
ICEt                                              3.3        4.7         5.1          3.8        4.0         4.6
Marginal sevin  rate                              0.4         0.4         0.3         0.3        0.2         0.3
Import elasticity                                 0.2         2.7        2.0          1.4        1.1         1.2
/  Data for 1981 and 1982 are from different sources; data for 1982 exclude re-exports.
East Aslia and Pacific Regional OfEice
August 15, 1916



- 26 -                                                   ANNEXI 
Page Z of 3
Population       1,019 million (mid-1953)
CNP per capita: 6300 (1983)
CHINA - ErKERNAL TtADE
Amount - 1985                Annual growth rates (Z) (at constant prices) /b
(million USS at                               Actual                             Pro
current prices)        1980      1981     1982      1983     1984     19855    199
EXTERNAL TRADE /a
Merchandise exports                       25,108              14.8      17.3      5.5      10.1     10.4      0.4      8_7
Primary                                 13,762               1.5     -1.4       3.9     14.6      9.6     22.3       6.8
Manufactures                            11,346              32.2     36.2       6.6      7.0     11.1   -18.0       10.4
Merchandise imports                       38,231               6.8      7.2       0.2     29.7     22.3      44.9      6.2
Food                                     1,374               9.1     65.3     42.9    -30.9   -24.9   -46.5          7.1
Petroleum                                  15Z              52.6    -65.5    130.0    -43.5      30.8     20.4      35.5
Machinery snd equipment                 14,790              16.4     19.0   -41.7       34.7     82.3      73.4      5.1
Others                                  21.915               0.9   -13.5        7.1     71.7     16.8      36.4      6.3
PRICES
Export price index (1980-10O)                                100.0    102.7      98.7     88.8     90.5      83.6    126.0
Import price index (1980-100)                                100.0    104.5      89.2     76.7     78.4      75.1    112.0
Terms of trade index (1980-100)                              100.0     98.3    110.7    115.8    115.4    111.3    112.5
Composition of merchandise trade (2)                   Average annual increase (2)
(at current price.)                              (at constant prices)
1978        191         1985        1990      1980-84            1984-89             1989-94
Exports                         100.0       100.0        100.0      100.0        10.8                7.9                7.6
Primary                        53.4        46.6         54.8       42.1        6.7                6.4                 6.1
Manufactures                   46.6        53.4         45.2       57.9        15.2               9.4                 8.2
Imports                         100.0       100.0        100.0      100.0        14.9               8.5                 7.5
Food                           12.8        17.4          3.6        9.7        13.9               8.9                 8.5
Petroleum                       0.5         0.4          0.4        0.9        13.0              17.2                16.1
Machinery and equipment        18.9        29.2         38.7       33.3        23.6              12.0                 6.8
Others                         67.9        53.0         57.3       56.1        20.5               6.7                 7.5
Share of trade with         Share of trade with         Share of trade with
industrial                  developing                 the USSR and
countries (Z)               countries (2)           Eastern Europe (2)
1977     1980     1983      1977     1980     1983      1977     1980     1983
lIRECrION OF TRADE
Exports                                    36.4      44.7     42.1     46.8      48.7     53.2     16.8       6.6      4.7
Imports                                    63.1      73.6     69.0     20.7      19.7     24.5     16.2       6.7      6.5
Ia  Based on custos statistics.  Exports, f.o.b.. imports, f.o.b.
/b  Growths in 1985 of itenized exports and imports are preliminary estimates.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
August 15. 1986



-27 -                                             ANNFX I_
P  e3of  3
Population    :  1,019 million (mid-1983)
CUP per capita:  $300 (1983)
CHINA - BALANCE OF PAYMFNITS, EXrERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Pillions of US$ at current prices)
Actual                                     Projected
Indicator                                        197P    1979    1980    19R1         198z       1983       L984        1985    P190
BALANCF OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and nonfactor services  10,370  14,983  20,324  24,423    23,637    23,186    26,716                27,515   58,590
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b. /a            9,607  13,658  18,492  22,027    21,125    20,707    23,905            25,10R   52,130
Imports of goods and nonfactor aervices  11,668  17,759  24,058  23,446    18,900    20,711              26,746      4n,290   63,180
Df which:  Merchandise f.o.b. /a           10,745  16,212  22,049  21,n47    16,876    18,717    23,890            38,231   56,950
Net factor income from abroad                     -8     -77    -117    -200          452      1.253      1,620         413      -R50
Net transfers                                    597     656      640      464        530        436        3n4         171       300
Current account balance                        -709  -2,197  -3,211   1,241         5,719      4.164      1,892    -11,989   -5,140
Private direct investment (net)                    -       -       57      265        43n        636      1,100       1,05R    1,950
Official grant aid (net)                           -       -       21      156        -44         75        117          72       140
NLT loans (net)                                  549   3,815   1,069       31n        301        927       -145       3,269    4,450
Disbursements                                 549   3,895   1,670   1,659         2,481      1.600        718       5,016    6,390.
Amortization                                    -       80      601   1,348       2,180        673        863         99h    1,940
Other capital lb                               -628  -1,021   2,455        -47       -115    -1,672    -2,E89         2,239         -
Change in reserves
C"-" indicating increase)                     788    -597    -391  -I,925    -6,291    -4,130             -95       4,6on   -1,400
International reserves                        6,677   7,274   7,665   9.590    15.8R1    20,011    20,106            15,506   23,500
Of which:  Cold Ic                          5,120   5,120   5.120   5,12n         5.120      5,120      5,120       5,120    5,120
Reserves as months of imports                   6.2      4.5      3.5      4.R       1n.1       11.7        9.1         4.5       4.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /d
Cross disbursenent                                         ..      ..        .. .                            .
Official grants                                ..       ..       ..
Concessional loans                             ..       ..       ..
DAC
IDA
Other
Nonconcessional loans
Official export credits                      ..       ..       ..       ..         ..         .
tBRD                                         ..       ..       ..
Other multilateral                           ..
Private                                      .         .       .        ..                    ..
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                549   4,364   5,433   5,261           6.5        6.9        7.1        11.6
Offtcial                                     ..       ..       ..      ..          ..                               4.7
Private                                      ..       ..       ..       ..         ..         ..         ..         6.9
Undisbursed debt                               ..       ..       ..       .
Deot service
Total service payments                           -      ..        .
Interest                                     ..       ..       ..      ..          .          .
Payments as Z of exports                      0.4      2.7      6.3      9.0       31.4        4.q        5.0         8.0
Average interest rate of new loans (E)             -       -        -        -          -          -          -           -
Average maturitv of new loans (years)             -        -        -        -          -          -          -           -
Ia  Data for 1978-81 are not comparable with those of 1982-85 because of a difference in their sources.  The latter exclude
re-exports.
lb  Includes net use of IMF credit and net flow of short-term cRpital.
77 Valued at US$402/troy ounce.
rd Excludes abort-term loans (one year or less).
Fast Asia and Pactfic Regional Office
August 15, 1986



- 28 -                                            IANNEX I I
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A. STArEKENr OF BANI LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(am of September 30. 1986)
Loan or                                                                                  US5 mllIton
Credit                                                                          Amount (lears cancellationa)
Nuimber   Year       Borrower                Purpone                            Bank    IDA    Undimbursed/a
2021/1167    1981  People'B Republic of China  University Development              100.0    100.0         0.8
1261    1982  People's Repubtlc of China  North China Plain Agriculture          -      60.0       14.1
2207    1982  People-C  Republic of China  Three Ports                         69.0       -        20.5
1297    1982  People's Republic of China  Agric. Edteation & Reeearch           -      75.4       16.5
2226/1313    1982  People's Republic of China  Industrial Credit                    40.6     30.0        19.0
2231    19R3  People's Republic of China  Daqing Petroleum                    162.4       -        63.6
2252    1983  People-s Republic of China  Zhongyuan-4lenitu Petroleum         100.8       -        63.1
2261/1347    1983  People-s Republitc of China  Heilomgjiang Land Reclamation       25.3     45.0        17.5
1411    1983  People-s Republic of China  Polytechatc/TV University              -      85.4       39.9
1412    1983  People-s Republic of China  rechnical Cooperation                  -      10.0        3.9
1417    1984  People's Republic of China  Rubber Development                     -     100.0       47.9
2382    1984  People's Republic of China  Lubuge Hydroelectric                145.4       -        94.1
2394    1984  People-s Republic of China  Railway                             220.5       -        67.8
1462    1984  People' Republic of China  Rural Credit                           -      50.0       29.1
1472    1984  People's Republic of China  Rural Health & Medical Educ.           -      85.0       48.8
2426    1984  People-s Republic of China  Iara..ay Petroleum                   99.5       -        67.3
2434/1491    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Industrial Credit            105.0     70.0        71.5
2444/1500    1984  People-s Republic of China  Second Agricultural Education        45.3     23.5        28.2
1516    1984  Peopteas Republic of China  Second Agriculteral Research           -      25.0       15.0
1551    1985  People'. Republic of China  Second University Development          -     145.0      166.6
2493    1985  People'. Republic of China  Second Power                        117.0       -        98.3
2501    1985  People's Repubtic nf China  Changeun (Luan) Coal Mining         126.0       -        122.8
1557    1985  Peopleec Republic of China  Seeds                                  -      40.D       40.6
1578    198S  People's Repubtic of China  Rural Vater Supply                     -      80.0       73.3
253911594    1985  PeopLe's Republic of China  Highwray                             42.6     30.0        67.3
2540    1985  People-s Republic of China  Second Railway                      235.0       -       229.2
2561    1985  People's Republic of China  Fertilizer Rehabilitation ind        97.0       -        93.2
Energy Saving
1605    1985  People's Republic of China  Forestry Development                   -      47.3       52.5
2579/1606    1985  People's Republic of China  Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development  17.0       75.0       103.1
2580    1985  People-s RepubiLc of China Weiyuan Gas Field Technical           25.0       -        23.0
Assistance
1642    1986  Peopleas Republic of China  Second Rural Credit                    -      90.n       92.6
2659/1663    1986  People-s Republic of China  Third Industrial Credit              75.0     25.0        96.4
1664    1986  People's Republic of China  Second TechnLcal Cooperation           -      20.0       20.1
1671    1986  People's Republic of China  Provincial Universitics                -     120.0       13.1
2678116B0    198b  "eople's Republic of China Third Railway                        160.0     70.0      236.5
2689/b  1986  People's Republic of Chins  Tianjin Port                        130.0       -        130.0
1689    1986  People-a Republic of China  Freshwater Fisheries                   -      60.0       63.1
2706    1986  People-s Republic of Chine  Beilungang Thermal Power            225.0       -        225.0
2707    1986  People-s RepablIc of China  Yantan Hydroelectric                 52.0       -         52.0
2708    1986  People's Republic of China  Liaodong Bay Petroleum Appraisal   30.0         -        30.0
2723/1713/b  1986  People's Republic of China  Rural Health & Prev. Ned.            15.0     65.0        84.4
17377W  1987  People's Republic of China  Red Soils                              -      40.0       41.3
Total                                                                            2.459.9  1,666.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                   2,459.9  1.666.2
Total Undinbursed                                                                1,783.0  1,214.0    2,997.0
B. STATEMENr OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as ot September JU. 195b)
Amount in U$ mllion
Year   Obligor                                     Type of bisiness               Loan     Equity      Total
1985   Cuangzhou and Peugeot Automobile Co.        Automobile                       15.0      2.0        17.0
Total Cross ComLitments                                                             15.0       2.0       17.0
Less cancel,ations, terminations,
repayment and sales
Total Commltments now held by lFC                                                   15.0      2.0        17.0
Total Undicbursed                                                                   15.0       2.0       17.0
/a  As credits are denomlnated in SORe (since IDA Replenishoent VI), undisbursed SDR credit balances are con-
verted to dollars at the current exchange rate between the dollar and the SOR. to soew caseS, therefore,
che undisbursed balance may indicate a dollar amount greater than the original principal credit amount
expressed in dollars.
lb  Not yet effective.
Notes:  l. The status of the projects listed is Statement A is described in a separate report on all Bank/tDA
financial projects is execution, which is updsted twice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2.  Subsequent to the above date of Statement A. a loan of S140.0 million won approved for the Shuikou
Hydroelectric Power Project.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
CHINA
XINJIANG AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project         :  14 months
(b)  Project prepared by                   :  Ministry of Agriculture,
BSF and XAITC
(c) First presentation to IDA and
first mission                         :  September 1985
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission        :  June 1986
(f)  Completion of negotiations            :  January 1987
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness         :  June 1987
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Detailed studies of financial and economic feasibility of proposed
agro-processing plants would be carried out by XAITC and submitted
to IDA for review and approval before bid invitations (para. 56).
(b) Training would be in accordance with a program acceptable to IDA;
details and schedule would be submitted for review by June 30, 1987
(para. 57).
(c) A report containing detailed description of waste disposal measures
for each agro-processing plant would be submitted to IDA for review
and concurrence prior to bid invitation (para. 65).
(d) XFIMO, the branch company POs, and the state farm and enterprise PUs
would be maintained during the project implementation period with
staff, functions, and responsibilities acceptable to IDA (para. 67).
(e) Proceeds of the Credit provided to agro-processing enterprises for
purchasing agro-processing equipment would be provided on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA (para. 68).
(f) Proceeds of the credit provided to individual state farms through
XAITC's normal contractual arrangements would be fully recovered on



U.S.6R.        j      st, <,
/  '\'-'-\}j   HILONCJANO   /  ii      
~Arca )     t MONGOLIA            '                         '
of Map                                  yJIIN.  
Xl   -,_,_L  NE,I   DtOF N-
X'IN<::JIANG  -      it'                     JL - _,
*~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ WNN  \H~i11I  \eA, -. '-.
rGG                                                                             L                         , \                                     TPACFIC
OCFAAN
U.S.S.R.    )  lemhay
200                                                                            u \.Jah y
T  A  13  A                   Hoboksar
Emin)¢
Ao~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
-;P .       AIu~JmKarmayf
.3
a~~0eqa                      N%z  P                                                                                                           --i
<2   .-    _,                __ 'he
l's~  6z*  -> -                                                                                                                            =-
2~~~~~~~~~~~~
TO ~ ~ ~ ~ Tk
40D 
A  State Farms:
~__    _  1  76  6  84  11 165          16 Red Star #1
_"-"w  2  77  7l86    12 166            17 Red Star #2
-~~-  3  81  8  89    13 16i7           18 Rocket
4  82      99D         14 221           19 Huangtian
5  83      10 161    15 Nursery         20 Red Star #3



IBRD 20152
CHINA
XINJIANG AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farms and Companies in PrAOecl
A       State Farms
*       Agro-Processing Facilities
0    Xnjilang Agriculture, Industry and Trade Corporatlon
*_  0  Branch Companies
Isohyets in Millimeters
0---|3 N * Elevations in Meters:
;fI~                                                      A~bove 3.tW0
Below 500
F-oads
*-    r\  *  Railroads
-v--;*-   Railroad Under Construction
),.(\  - Z                          t      Airports
,r~e-S, 'Lakes and Rivers
0    Towns
-t-ffi-4> Q -; r 43 ~~~~~~~~ProvirnteCapital
-   . nte69 National Capial
- ----t ~~~-   2°a                    : * --: ~~County Boundaries
* j                          1 .: ~~~~~~~~Pretecture Bounttaries
n  5 \                               ~~~~~~~~~~~PrDvince Bounbdaries
.--s2 . .    \                      -*-  I~~~~~~~~nlemat60nal Boundaries
-.                                0~~~~~~~~~~~~ 51  1WO    ISO      2w
; __   _ ' _KILOMETEr
1                            1.
'5~~~~~~
* Agr,Processing:
1 Slaughterhouse             5 Wool Processing Factory
2 Wool Processing Factory    6 Oilseed Plant
3 Slaughterhouse              7 Raisin Plarn
4 Cotonseed Plant
SEPTEMBER 1988






