D _Mmut Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6425-CiA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
xINJIANG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 3, 1987
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit        - Yuan (Y)
US$1.00              -  Y3.70  (September 1986)
Y 1.00                  US$0.27
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)             3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)        0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)       -  2.47 acres
1 ton                   1,000 kg
2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (kg)         2.2 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYNS USED
ABC           - Agricultural Bank of China
AITC          - Agriculture, Industry and Trade Corporation
BSF           - Bureau of State Farms
CC            - Coordinating Committee
CNMIEC        - China National Machinery Import and Export Corporation
FIMO          - Foreign Investment Management Office
GAIC          - General Administration of Industry and Commerce
GVAIO         - Gross  Value  of Agricultural  and  Industrial Output
GVAO          - Gross Value of Agricultural Output
ICB           - International Competitive Bidding
kW            - kilowatt
LCB           - Local Competitive Bidding
mcm           - million cubic meter
MOF           - Ministry of Finance
MWREP         - Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
PCBC          - People's Construction Bank of China
PO            - Project Office
ppm           - parts per million
PRS           - Production responsibility system
PU            - Project Unit
SOE           - Statement of Expenditure
sq km         - square kilometer
XAITC         - Xinjiang Agriculture, Industry and Trade Corporation
XFIMO         - Xinjiang Foreign Investment Management Office
VARIANT SPELLINGS FOR PLACE NAMES
Aibi      =  Ebinur
Kuitun    -  Kuytun
Wusu      - Usu
Yili      -  Ili
Yining    -  Ining



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
XINJIAMG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project S!ma
Borrower:     People's Republic of China
Amount:       SDR 57.3 million (US$70 million equivalent)
Terms:        Standard
Project
Description:      In support of the Government's policy to speed up
development of China's poorer provinces in the north
and west, the proposed project would expand the
irrigated area for crop production, improve
pastures, and promote livestock development on 20
state farms in northern Xinjiang. Specifically, it
would construct irrigation works on 32,300 ha to be
planted with food, fiber, and fodder crops, improve
4,700 ha of iainfed pasture through fertilizing,
fencing and seeding, and introduce Improved animal
breeds. To handle the increased production of raw
materials, the project would construct and equip agro-
processing facilities such as cottonseed oil
processing plants, wool processing plants,
slaughterhouses, and raisin production facilities.
In addition to agro-processing equipment, the
project would proviqe tractors, combine harvesters,
balers, silage equipment, scrapers with laser-
control, bulldozers, fuel tankers and refrigerated
trucks. A project-supported training component
would be used to train equipment operators, plant
managers and workers, and project personnel. At
full development, the project would produce annually
about 21,300 s:ons of wheat, other grains, and
oilseeds, 13,800 tons of cotton and cottonseed,
24,000 tons of grapes, 78,000 tons of feed grain and
fodder, 11,300 tons of fresh and preserved mutton,
beef, and pork, and 1,100 tons of clean wool, wool
tops, and other wool products. It would provide an
additional 24,000 full-time jobs and raise annual
per capita incomes of farm families to about Y800
and of full-time employees engaged in animal
husbandry or agro-processing to about Y1000. The
project faces no significant technical, organi-
zational or marketing risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of thei officil duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorW Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
Local       Foreign         Total
. .........($ min)...….…....
Irrigation                     20.6          16.8            37.4
Pasture improvement             1.2           1.0             2.2
Livestock development           3.6           2.9             6.5
Agro-processing                 6.7          20.1            26.8
Machinery & equipment           0.0          17.1            17.1
Buildings                       7.3           2.4             9.8
Training                        0.7           0.8             1.5
Base cost /a               40.1          61.3           101.3
Physical contingencies          3.3           5.7             9.0
Price contingencies             1.6           3.0             4.6
Total Project Cost         45.0          70.0           115.0
Financing Plan:
IDA                                     70.0           70.0
Central Government        22.0                          22.0
XAITC & Branches          23.0                          23.0
Total                    45.0          70.0           115.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank/IDA F               1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
Annual                4.0    17.0    23.0    23.0      3.0
cumulative            4.0    21.0    44.0    67.0    70.0
Rate of Return:     18%
/a The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



XINLJIA .U               DEW1INT  PROJECT
,Ish gI Contents
Palge
I.  BACKGROUND ********.**......*............................... 
Introduction  ..*..****...........                             1
The Agricultural sector . ..........  ................ .  .    1
Sectoral Objectives and Bank Operations ............    2
Agriculture                 .......in.....ia......................... . .
Project Rational.  ........................   a8
II.  THE PROJECT          ***E *********.*.**....#...... .#.         9
Location *******ee*t*        ...*.           ........... ****    9
Climate and Vater  esources . .....         .................    .   9
Soils ...........                 ........... *.... *e.....  10
State Farms in the troject Areas ........,..........   10
Agro-processilg ....................... **.****.......   12
Infraatructure and Support Services .................  12
111. THE PRWJSC  ........................ # ...... ..00 ...   15#i
Project Descriptt.m  ..... ... ..........................  15
Areas to be Developed  .....................    ............  15
Irrigation                     ......           ..................  16
Pasture Improveent *         ... .  #. .. . .  . .. .. .... ..  17
Uivestock Dw.lo.ut                 ........ ................... . .  18
AgroprocesIng ..... .............................. ...  18
Equipm_nt and Materials .............................  19
Buildings           ...........................................  20
Training ............................   20
Water Supply and Dm    ....         .................   21
Status of Desipg  ..............               .      .....  22
Impleantation Sobdule ..........................  22
Cost catimtes .............. * .......#*..40........  22
Financing ................................   23
Procurement                     ...........  23
Disbursoemnts .....................  24
Accounts and Audits .........        ............. I ... . . ...  26
Environmental Effects ............................  26
This report io bausd on the fin4ings of a preappraisal mission to
China in September 1983 and an appraisal mission in June 1986.
Members of the prappaisal miSsion were W.P. Ting, J.B. Doolette,
P. Harrell, A. Puoan   (IDA) sad C. Cronberg (Consultant).  The
appraisal mission omprse d V.T. Smith, W.P. Ting, J.B. Doolette,
P. Harrell, A. Plaza* L.$. Tay (IDA) and V. Bilbo (Consultant).



- ii -
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT    ........................   27
Project Organization and Implementation                  .   27
Financial Arrangements        ....................... .......   29
Project Launch Workshop ............................   30
Execution of Project Works ....                   ...   30
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting   .         .31
V.  PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICES.....                          32
Production              ....32
Markets and Prices.                          .        .  34
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS .37
Production and Benefits  . ..     37
Employment and Incomes   .               .37
Project Charges    .                  .38
Economic Analysis    .                 .38
Risks                            ..40
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..............  41
TABLES IN THE TEXT
3.1 Areas to be Developed .16
3.2 Cost Summary .23
3.3 Procurement Profile .25
5.1  Cropped Areas, Yields end Production .33
5.2  Incremental Output of Animal Products .34
6.1 Summary of Rate of Return and Sensitivity
Analysis  . .39
ANNEXES
1. Background Data
Project Area Statistics
Climate
2. Cost Data
Cost Summary
Expenditure Schedule
Expected Price Increases
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Cost Estimates by Project Area
Cost Estimates: Agro-processing Equipment
Cost Estimates: Machinery and Vehicles
Cost Estimates: Office and Laboratory Equipment
Cost Estimates: Training



- iii-
3. Financial and Economic Benefits
Farm-gate Prices for Major Products and Inputs
Crop Budget at Pull Development
Animal Budgets at Full Development
Agro-processing Budget at Full Development
Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Rates of Return and Switehing Values by Component
4. Implementation Schedule
5. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
LISTS OF CHARTS
1. Organizational Structure of MAAF
2. Organization for Project Implementation
3. Channels for the Use and Recovery of the IDA Credit
MAP
IBRD  - 20152   - Project Locations



CHINA
XINJIANG AGRICULTURAL D VEWPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01     The Government of China has requested Bank Group assistance in
financing an area development projOct in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous
Region. The rproject would include irrigation of 32,000 ha for food,
fiber and fodder crops; fencing and other improve_ents to develop 45,000
ha of rainfed pasture; the construction of agro-processing facilities;
and provision of livestock for breed improvement. It would be carried out
on 13 state fanms in Bole, Zhaosu, and lmin In northwest Xinjiang and on
seven state farms near Hami and Turpan which lie to the east of Urumqi.
The project would serve as a model for more efficient use of Xinjiang's
arid lands for crop and livestock production.
The Agricultural Sector
1.02    Agriculture in China, including crops, livestock, forestry and
fisheries, provides sustenance to over one billion people, is the
source of income for some 190 million farm families, and accounts for
about 35% of the country's GDP. Only about 100 million ha of China's
land area of 960 million ha are arable. Farming systems are intensive,
vith large inputs of labor, chemical and organic fertilizers and water.
Nearly half of the arable land is irrigated. Food grains occupy about
70% of the crop land and account for about one-third of total
agricultural output. This Intensive system of food production has
allowed China to meet the basic food requirements of its population
(about 22% of the world's total) from less than 8% of the world's arable
land.
1.03    Major revisions in farm policies since 1979, most importantly,
a shift from communal to family farming and major increases in farm
prices, have led to rapid growth and diversification in agricultural
production. The system of contracting production to small-scale family
farms, within the framework of collective or state ownership of land and
major fixed assets, has given farmers more flexibility in determining
what crops to grow, how much to produce and whore to market their
output. Results have been dramatIc: production increased by 10% per
year over the period 1980-85 in comparison with an average of 3% per
year In the preceding 23 years. G.a-n output reached a record 407
million tons in 1984, 34* greater than the 1978 figure, despite a
reduction in the area sown with graLns. In 1985, the Government began a
new phase of reform, replacing compulsory procurement quotas with
voluntary contracts, adjusting procurement prices and greatly enlarging
the role of the market. These measures contributed to a decline in
grain and cotton area and output as farmers lncreasingly shifted
production into other industrial crops and livestock. As the
current reforms are extended, the challenge to China's agriculture will
be to maintain an adequate growth rate while accoodating a continued
shift in consumption patterns. In terms of the average Chinese diet,
Chinese planners project a rapid increase In the deMand for fruits,



-2-
vegetables, meat, poultry, fish, and dairy products with a corresponding
decrease in the share of direct grain consumption.
Sectoral Oblectives and Brnk Operations
1.04     The Government's long-term objectives in the agricultural
sector are (1) to increase and diversify the production of food, feed
and industrial crops to meet requirements created by population and
income growth, and (2) to raise incomes and employment opportunities in
rural areas. Given China's shortage of arable land (0.1 ha per capita),
development planners have focussed on t.e need to increase the
productivity of existing cropped areas and to develop efficiently the
remaining areas of unutilized land. Steps are also being taken to
stabilize food grain output at the 1983 level, increase production and
quality of animal feed, livestock, fruit, fish, and industrial crops,
and expand agro-processing activities so as to raise the value-added in
the farm sector. Support has been given to measures to further improve
producer incentives, including (a) extension of contracting systems
which permit household-level management within both the collective and
state farm sectors; (b) continued expansion of the role of the market;
(c) adjustment of producer prices; and (d) establishment of private,
public, or joint public-private enterprises in rural agro-processing,
transport and commerce.
1.05     The Bank's strategy for lending in China's agriculture sector
has been to support the Government's efforts as outlined above. Lending
to date has included two land development projects (North China
Plain [Cr. 1261-CHA], Heilongjiang Land Reclamation [Ln. 2261-
CHA/C'. 1347-CHA]) and five projects for strengthening agricultural
support services (Agricultural Training and Research (Cr. 1297-CHA], the
Second Agricultural Research Project [Cr. 1516-0-CHA], Rural Credit I
[Cr. 1462-CHA] and II [Cr. 1642-CHA], and the Seeds Project [Cr. 1577-
CHA]). Future lending is expected to include support for specialized
product subsectors and area development, along with upgrading selected
service activities. Projects of the specialized product subsector type
include the Rubber Davelopment Project (Cr. 1417-CHA, SP-5-CIA), the
Forestry Development Project (Cr. 1605-CHA), the Freshwater Fisheries
Project (Cr. 1689-CHA), and proposed livestock and agro-processing
projects. The area development approach, which generally targets
difficult agro-technical development problems, combines in a single
project assistance to crop and livestock development and the
stre.-gthening of various support services. It is appropriate for
most areas of China, including poverty areas lacking infrastructure and
services as well as areas where much basic infrastructure is already in
place and further productivity growth requires upgrading of physical
works and support services. It takes advantage of the close integration
of governmental functions at the local level in China, which facilitates
inter-agency cooperation. The Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development Project
(Ln. 2479/Cr. 1606-CUA) was the first of this type and the Red Soils
Area Development Project (Cr. 1733-CHA) the second. Further projects of
this type include the proposed project as well as a project in Gansu
Province. The lending program will continue to support repeater
projects in subsectors which are large and diverse--e.g., livestock,
agro-processing--or in subsectors which give important support to the
development of small-scale, family farming--e.g., rural credit.



- 3
Implementation of ongoing Bank Group financed projects in the
agriculture sector is on schedule. Notable features of all the projects
are the high standard of management at the central, provincial and
county levels and the enthusiastic participation of the collectives and
farmers.
Agriculture in Xiniiang
1.06     Location.  The Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region is a
frontier region in northwest China bordering Mongolia, the Soviet
Union, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and India. Xinjiang is almost entirely
surrounded by high mountains and is divided into distinct northern and
southern zones--centering on the Junggar Basin and Tarim Basin,
respectively--by the Tianshan range which extends across the region from
Soviet Central Asia for some 1,600 km. Both the Tarim Basin and the
smaller Junggar Basin to the north are dominated by vast desert areas
fringed with a string of oases which support settled agriculture. in
the less arid north, large areas of productive natural grassland inter-
vene between desert and oasis. Though Xinjiang, which covers 1.6
million sq km, is China's largest administrative unit in terms of area,
only 2% of the land is under cultivation and the population density at
9 persons per sq km is one of China's lowest.
1.07     Climate. Water Resources and Land Use.  Xinjiang has an
arid to semi-arid continental climate with low to insignificant annual
precipItation except in the mountains, and large differences in
temperature between summr and winter and between night and day.
Average annual precipitation ranges from less than 20 mm in the deserts
to 600 mm in the mountains. Rainfall is low over most of the arable
land and irrigation is essential for crop production. Daytime
temperatures in the summer (April to September) reach 30 degrees C but
nights are much cooler. The frost-free period ranges from 110 to 190
days. The winters are cold with temperatures below freezing from
October to February. In most parts of Xinjiang, the winter cold
restricts farmers to only one crop a year. It also leads to high
mortality rates among livestock in the absence of shelter and adequate
reserves of fodder.
1.08     Total surface runoff in the province as a whole is estimated at
88 billion cu m with the north and south each *laiming half and the Ytli
and Ertix river basins alone accounting for one-third. Some 48 billion
cu m of total runoff are being harnessed for irrigation through various
water conservancy schemes, Surface streams are primarily derived from
melting snows and glaciers, secondarily from springs and sudden rains.
Fluctuations from year to year tend to be small. Rivers rise in April
and flows continue into August. Good quality groundwater is found over
wide areas especially in the Junggar Basin, and in some areas artesian
conditions exist. Snow melt which sometimes occurs in the form of
torrential runoff is the main source of recharge.
1.09     About two-thirds of Xinjiang's total surface area of 160
million ha consists of areas unsuitable for agriculture, including
sandy desert (deserts account for 23a of Xinjiang's total area), steep
mountain terrain, and gravel and rock-covered wasteland. Of the
approximately 60 million ha currently utilized for agricultural



.4 -
production, the forested erea accounts for about 2.1 million ha, water
surface 4.7 million ha, cultivated land 3.2 million ha and the rest,
about 50 million ha, is defined as natural grssland. Grassland areas
are further classified on the basis of rainfall, gras species ard
yields as good qualit., (19 milliou ha), medium quality (14 million ha),
and poor quality (17 million ha). About 75% of the good quality
grassland is in the north, nearly 20% of it in the Yili area. In recent
years, herd increases bave led to problem of overgrazing, especially of
lowland pastures; in fact, Xinjiang's total pasture area is reported to
be decreasing due to degradation from overgrazing.  The 3.2 million ha
of cultivated land, which includes about 650,000 ha reclaimed since
1955, represents only 2% of Xinjiang's total area.  About 85% of this
area is irrigated; the rest is rainfed agricultural land, the bulk of
which is in the Yili and Changji regions. An estimated 2.9 million.ha
of the total 3.2 million ha are planted each year with the remainder
left fallow. Grains (primarily wheat and corn) account for nearly 70%
of the sown area, cash crops (cotton, sugar beet and various oil seed
crops) about 20%, The romaining 10% is used to grow fruits and
vegetables.
1.10  r=o&Ijation. Marked changes bave occurred since 1949 in the size,
distribution and composition of Xinjiang's population. In 1949, the
total population was about 4 million, three-fourths of it concentrated
in the oases of South Xinjiang. By the lateo 1950's the total had
reached almost six million with about two-thirds in the south. The
present population is nearly 14 million with about eight million in the
north and six in the south. Until 1949, only 6% of Xinjiang's
population was classified as Han. By 1958, this figure had risen to 17%
and by 1973 to 35%. At present, about 40% or 5.6 million people are Han
with 60% or more than eight million belonging to various minority groups,
mostly Uygurs (six million) and Kazaks (one million). Over 80% of the
Uygurs live In the Tarim Basin. The Kazaks are concentrated in the
north where there are also communities of Mongols, Uzbek, Hui and other
of the 13 minority groups found in the region. Of the total population
of 14 million, nearly 70% is rural with about 10% engaged in animal
husbandry. Agriculture is organized into collectives and state farms:
in 1984 there were 731 collectives with a population of 7.3 million
and a labor force of 2.8 million and 319 state farms supporting a
population of 2.7 million and a labor force of 1.1 million.
1.11   XZi  ani'As State Farms ystm. The Xinjiang Agriculture,
Industry and Trade Corporation (YAITC) is part of a national networ'- of
state farms organizations which has at its apex the Bureau of State
Farms (BSF) within the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and
Fisebries (IMAF). The BSF, formerly the Ministry of State Farms and
Land Reclamation, is responsible for overall policy, planning, and
administration of China's 2,048 state farms, about 30% of which are in
eight major border regions and the rest distributed fairly evenly over
21 provinces and municipalities. The BSF directly manages 604 state
farms in Guangdong, Heilongj iang, Yunnan and Xinjiang. These farms
account for about half of the work force, two-thirds of the cultivated
land, and balf of the grain output for all state farms. The remaining
1,444 state farm  are mnaged by prov_nces or counties and funded from
local budgets; the BSF role is limited to providing technical guidance
tbrough its representative units at the local level. China's state



fazms altogether manage about 30 million ha which include 4.1 million
ha under cultivation or 4.1% of the nation's total cultivated
area.   In 1984, the total output value for state farms amounted
to 14.7 billion yuan, up 91* over 1978; this represented 1% of
total national Gross Value of Agricultural and Industrial Output
(GVAIO).
1.12     The Government views the state farms network as an effective
vehicle for integrated rural development especially in remote areas and in
introducing new tochnology in more established areas. The state farms
network has a large complement of managers experienced in large scale
development programs. They have been in the forefront of efforts to
introduce new farming technologies to China's agriculture such as improved
crop varieties and livestock, and to promote farm mechanization and.
development of agro-processing.   As part of the economic reforms since
1979, the Government has made changes in state farms operations designed to
rationalize use of resources and maximize profits. First, state farms
organizations have been given a greater degree of financial autonomy,
including greater control over investment decisions and responsibility for
profits and losses. Second, farm households have been given added incentive
to increase production as a result of the newly-instituted production
responsibility system (PRS) which uses contracts linking income to output
performance to govern relations between producer and state farm. To
s-cengthan financial discipline within state farms enterprises, the use of
contracts has been extended to cover transactions between enterprises at
various levels and provision of services to farmers or enterprises by
various technical and marketing units.. Third, new enterprises are being
established, particularly in agro-processing, with a view to achieving
higher value-added. Increasingly, state farms enterprises are forming joint
ventures with a range of collective and state farms organizations--some of
them outside the pr:ovince--and with foreign firms.
1.13     In the case of Guangdong, HeilongJiang, Yunnan and Xinjiang, the
3SF determines the overall inmestment plan for state farms subject to the
approval of the provincial government. It is responsible for allocation of
grant funds from the state budget to the provincial agriculture, industry
and trads corporations (AITCs) and ensuring the availability of materials
needed to implement plamned investments. Of the four directly-sanaged
AITCs, Xinjiang has a unique relationship--termed "direct affiliation"--with
the BSF whereby, for historical reasons related to strategic location and
the sizeable minority population, appointments of all provincial state farm
personnel are made by the Central Government. Although the term
"Corporation" in ZAITC's title is an accurate translation from Chinese, the
XAITC is not a corporation in the usual sense since its role is primarily
planning, coordinating and supervising diverse development activities. XAITC
is responsible for supervising operations of over 400 enterprises under its
direct control, allocating to its 14 brahch companier the capital and
operating funds from the state budget, and approving branch company
investment programs. The 14 branch companies supervise operations of
medium-scale agro-processing and industrial enterprises and provide
technical services to the 171 state farms under their jurisdiction. Each
branch company has an average of 12 satellite farms with a total population
of about 150,000.   Before 1979, all profits from the state farms and branch
companies were remitted to the XAITC which coordinated distribution of
subsidies to units in deficit. Wit?h the increased decentralization o£



-6-
financial management after 1979, farms and companies have been allowed to
retain a greater portion of their profits and are expected to cover costs
through revenue earning activities. Overall, after a period of losses from
1967-80 due mainly to price structure distortions, the state farms in
Xinjiang have shown a positive balance sheet with small (Y 60 million in
1983) but growing profits.
1.14      Xinliang's Development to 1979. In Xinjiang, as in other of
China's less-developed border regions, state farms organizations have
played the dominant role in economic growth and modernization since
1949. Key tasks have included land development, improving
infrastructure, managing investments in agriculture snd industry,
introducing new farming technologies, and providing technical assistance
to the collective sector. Initial investments in Xinjiang in the
1950's focussed on industrial development in the Urumqi-Karamay region
and completion of the railroad from Hami to Urumqi. Rapid population
increases in the north accompanying this development spurt led to grain
shortages and an expansion of south to north grain shipments. To reduce
a growing dependency on grain produced in the south, efforts were
stepped up to develop land and water resources along the northern slopes
of thi Tianshan and the Yili Valley. Newly-organized state farms began
construction of the region's first large-scale irrigation systems, often
based on old, poorly maintained schemes. By the mid-1960's the focal
point of state farms efforts was renovation of irrigation works on
Xinjiang's communes, part of a general policy of strengthening
infrastructure for the collective sector. Whereas in 1949 only one
million ha of land were irrigated in Xinjiang, by the late 1970's
irrigated land amounted to an estimated 2.8 million ha of which
two million ha were served by large irrigation systems. Along
with land development and irrigation, high priority was given to
farm mechanization, a precondition for production increases in
Xinjiang where large tracts of land are farmed and essential crop
operations must be performed quickly because of the short growing
season. Mechanization increased rapidly after 1949 and by 1966
about 50% of all cultivated land was worked using farm machinery.
About 95% of this machinery belonged to the state farms. In the
next ten years, emphasis was placed on increasing the rate of
mechanization on the collectives. By 1976, the collective
sector's share of total farm machinery had increased to 67%.
1.15      The state farms development initiative in Xinjiang from 1949
to the late 1970's brought positive results. The total amount of
cultivated land increased by 260%, total sown area by 220%, grain
production by nearly 400%, cotton production by 1000%, oil seed crop
production by more than 300% and livestock numbers by 230%. The period
of greatest growth occurred from 1950 to 1966 when the area sown with
grains increased to 2.4 million ha or 1.5 million ha more than 1949;
grain yields rose to 1.4 tons/ha an increase of 0.4 tons/ha over 1949;
and total grain production reached 3.4 million tons or six times the
1949 figure. It is estimated that grain production grew at an average
of 6% in the petiod 1950-71, with growth slowing thereafter to an average of
0.6% for 1972-77 then starting a recovery trend in 1978 when the grain total
was 500,000 tons above the 1977 figure. Within the overall growth pattern,
there was a shift in regional growth rates with the center of production
moving from the Tarim Basin with its traditional oasis-based agriculture to



- 7 -
the Urumqi-Bole corridor in the north. In 1949, South Xinjiang was
responsible for 63% of the province's total grain production as compared to
32% for the north and 5% for the east. By 1959, the comparable figures were
54%, 42% anl 4% and by 1976, 46%, 49% and 5%.
1.16    Recent Performance and Future Prospects.  Agricultural
production in Xinjiang has grown at close to 9% annually since 1980.
Grain production increased at more than 6% per year between 1980-84
despite a 9% reduction in the area sown to grain. Cotton output reached
192,000 tons in 1984, twice the figure for 1979. Total livestock
numbers in 1984 were 30 million head, a 15% increase over 1980. About
half of Xinjiang's livestock are in the northwest, in the Yili, Bole,
Emin and Altai regions. Rural per capita incomes rose from Y198
in 1980 to Y307 in 1983 and Y355 in 1984. The Gross Val'Ae of
Agricultural Output (GVAO) for the region in 1984 was 5.') billion yuan
compared to 3.1 oillion in 1980.
1.17     The rapid growth of Xinjiang's agriculture aQ'ter 1980 has been
the result of a number of factors including favorabla weather, increased
use of modern inputs such as chemical fertilizer aild improved crop
varieties, and the restructuring of rural institutions as called for in
the Government's overall program of economic reforms. By 1985, about
85% of Xinjiang's communes had relinquished their administrative
functions to newly-formed township governments and split up into farmer
cooperatives and other forms of collective enterprise. Under this new
system, virtually all households in the collective sector were
practicing some form of contracting for production. Within the state
farm sector, the move to family farming, either through contracting with
individual households or groups of households, began on an experimental
basis in mid-1983 with about a thousand households. By 1985 nearly all
state farms had adopted some kind of contract system linking income to
output performance. Types of contracts vary by region and state farm
depending on land conditions. Until recently, the typical contract
guaranteed farmers a fixed wage equivalent to 80-90% of their total
income with 10-20% tied to output performance calculated on a profit-
sharing basis with the state farm. Now, increasingly, income is being
entirely linked to output. Under this type of contract, farmers are
required to meet a production quota set annually by the state farm
(usually based on an average of the previous three years' output) but
have the right to retain all above-quota production as income. As in
the case of the collectives, the shift to family farms has created
stronger incentives for farmers to increase productivity and has meant
that production planning is more market oriented.
1.18    Despite recent gains, Xinjiang's per capita GVAIO remains at
only 78% of the national average. This relatively low output figure
reflects an economy based largely on agriculture in an area where
farming is constrained by a short growing season( para. 1.07).
Continued growth depends on more efficient utilization of available
resources.   In most existing irrigation schemes, there is potential for
bringing more land under irrigation by developing unused surface water
and groundwater resources. The spread of irrigation in recent years has
not only increased the area under food and cash crops but has created
opportunities for irrigated fodder production as well as more crop
residues for animal consumption. Fencing and aerial seeding have also



- 8 -
produced promising results in raising the carrying capacity of the
grasslands.  In the case of Xinjiang's agro-processing subsector which
at 88 of GVAO is well below the national average of 16%, there are
prospects for rapid growth ower the next decade. First, Xinj iang is an
important producer of raw materials such as wool, hides, long-staple
cotton, grapes and sugar beset and both output and demand trends for
these products have shown marked increases in recent years. Second,
under the Seventh Five Year Plan, the railroad will be extended to the
western border, making transport of processed products feasible and
less costly.
Pro10ct Rationale
1.19     Recent Government policy calls for speeding up development of
China's poorer provinces in the north and west where gains from recent
economic reforms have been less than in the more prosperous southern and
eastern provinces. Bank Group support for this policy is being sought
by the Government through participation in area development projects in
Gansu and Xinjiang. The proposed project would serve as a model for
more efficient use of Xinjiang's arid lands for crop and livestock
production. It would mainly involve development of three areas close to
Xinjiang's western border. These areas have some of the best
undeveloped or partially developed land in the region, abundant water
resources, an adequate road system, access to rail service on completion
of the westward extension, and well-developed teebnical and managerial
skills in existing state farms organizations. The two additional
project sites east of Urumqi are favorable in terms of climate, soil,
and water conditions for growing grapes, a high value crop with an
assured market.
1.20     In Xinjiang there is scope for introduction of better land
levelling methods; more efficient techniques of water use, including, in
selected areas, use of sprinklers; more advanced technology in the
livestock sector such as improved pastures, animal breeds and
management; improved crop varieties; and more up-to-date and efficient
processing facilities. Bank involvement in the design of the project
and its subsequent implementation would facilitate the adoption of new
technology. Bank participation would also help in promoting a
development approach which integrates land development, raw materials
production, agro-processing and marketing. Project execution would be
the responsibility of the XAITC which has long experience in the project
areas in organization and management of irrigation and land development
programs. Project-supported crop and livestock production would be
carried out by state farm households or teams under the PRS which has
been widely adopted in both the collective and state farm sectors in
Xinjiang. Through established channels of technical assistance from
state farms to collectives, collective farmers in areas adjacent to the
project areas would benefit from the use of the project's new technology
and have access to processing plants and support facilities.



9.
II. THE PROJECT AREAS
Location
2.01     The proposed project aroas are in the northern part of the
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region at the western and eastern ends of
the Tianshan range. The largest sites cover parts of 13 state farms
on the western border about 500 km from the Regional capital of Urumqi
in the counties of Bole near Lake Aibi (Ebinur), Zhaosu and Jinghe in
the Yili River Valley, and Emin and Yumin in the Tarbagatay foothills
to the north. ProJect activities would take place on seven state
farms in Bole, two in the Zhaosu area, and four in bmin involving a
gross area of 74,000 ha. Two additional project sites are located in
Turpan and Hami counties which lie 150 km and 500 km to the east of
Urumqi.   Project activities in the Hami/Turpan area would take place
on seven state farms and cover a gross area of about 3,100 ha,
Project agro-processing facilities would be located in Bole (2),
Zhaosu, Emin, and Hami, and near the two cities of Kuitun and Yining.
Project locations and area statistics are given in IBRD Map 20152 and
Annex 1.
Climate and Water Resources
2.02     North Xinjiang has a continental climate with hot surmers and
cold winters. Average daily temperatures range from a January low of
17 degrees C to 27 degrees C in July-August. Winter temperatures
generally stay below freezing from November to March. Most of the
precipitation in the cultivated areas is in the form of rainfall and
winter snovfalls are light. Heavy snowfalls are comin in the mountain
ranges and there is a permanent snow cover above 4,000 m. High winds and
sand storms are common in North Xinjiang in spring and su=mer.
2.03      The project areas show significant differences in climate.
Bole, between 200 and 600 i above sea level, has less tban 200 mm
rainfall, but has adequate sunlight conditions (about 2,700 sunshine
hours), a frost-free period of 170-180 days, and, hence, a six month
growing season. Zhaosu at an elevation of 1,800 to 2,000 a has an
average rainfall of 500 mm, the highest in Xinjiang. However, Zhaosu's
frost free days are fewer (110), sunshine hours less (2,500) and growing
season shorter (3 1/2-4 1/2 months) than in other parts of North
Xinjiang. Emin, at an elevation of 700-1,000 i, has average annual
rainfall of 270 mm, a frost-free period of between 110-140 days, and a
total of about 2,700 sunshins hours annually. The growing season in
bin is between 4 and 4 1/2 months.
2.04     The Hami/Turpan region, while at aiout the same latitude
as the project areas in the northwest, is butter and drier than these
areas. Turpan is a basin surrounded by hi% mountains. At its center
is a depression 160 m below sea level where annual rainfall is less than
25 mm and temperatures can reach as high as 45 degrees C during the
su=er months. Habi to the east is a desert oasLi with insignificant
rainfall (annual average of 30 mm) and high temperatures (monthly
average exceeding 10 degrees C) for seven months. The frost-free period
ranges from 170-190 days in Hami and from 270-300 days In Turpan.



- 10 -
2.05     The main source of surface water in the project areas is snow-
melt runoff from the surrounding mountains. River flows, which occur
from April to August, are generally more reliable and predictable than
rainfall-derived runoff. Floods occur most years when high temperatures
in the mountains, often accompanied by heavy rain, lead to rapid melting
of the snow cover. This flooding is the main source of recharge to the
groundwater; aquifers with good quality groundwater underlie all of the
project areas.
Soils
2.06     The soils in the Bole, Zhaosu and Emin project areas are
mainly grey desert, grey calcareous, and meadow soils which occur,
respectively, in the plains areas, in the foothills where they are
associated with alluvial deposits, and at higher elevations. The
predominant soil type in the Hami/Turpan project area is grey desert
soil which is often found in combination with coarse alluvial deposits,
frequently gravel. Thin layers of salt occurring on uncultivated land in
the Bole project area were originally deposited by mountain torrents
crossing salt outcrops. These salt layers present no problems for crop
cultivation since they are partly removed by land levelling and the
remainder is quickly leached out by irrigation. In Hami, salinity has
occurred in some areas due to underwatering but this can be readily
avoided by adequate irrigation and drainage. The organic matter content
of the soils in all project areas is in the reasonably high range of 1
to 4%. Soils generally are well-structured with deep profiles.
overall, soils in the project areas present no problem for crop
production when irrigated and drained.
State Farms in the Prolect Areas
2.07    Farm Size. There are about 27,000 families, or a population of
119,000, on the project state farms in Bole, Zhaosu, Emin and
Hami/Turpan.  These farms have an area under crops of about 97,000 ha
and about 272,000 ha of grassland. The area of crops managed by a farm
family ranges from about 2.0 ha where there is full irrigation to 8.0 ha
where the crop is rainfed. In Hami/Turpan, the average family farms
about one ha.   The cropping ratio in all project areas is close to 1;
nearly all of the sown area yields a single harvest in late summer.
Grassland carrying capacity ranges from 3-4 ha per large animal
equivalent in Zhaosu to 15 on the Bc'.e steppe.. Average size of herd per
herdsman is about 250 animals in Zhaosu and Emin and 100 in Bole.
2.08     Crop and Livestock Production. Land managed by project state
farms in Bole consists of extensive cropped areas surrounded by arid
steppe with a sparse grass cover. This gives way to better quality
grassland in the distant foothills to the north and northwest. By
contrast, project farms in Zhaosu and Emin are characterized by a
smaller cropped area surrounded by vast tracts of good quality
grassland. Hence, the focus of the agricultural economy of Bole is crop
production with livestock a secondary feature while in Zhaosu and Emin
the reverse is true. The major crops grown on project state farms in
Bole are grains, oilseeds, and high-quality, long-staple cotton.
Bole produces all the grain it needs and exports virtually all of its
cottorn output to Japan. Oilseeds, which account for about 7% of



- 11 -
cultivated land, are processed mainly in Bole City; present output
supplies about two-thirds of the market demand in the City and nearby
state farms and collectives. In addition, Bole project farms manage
53,000 ha of rainfed grassland. This helps support a livestock
populbtion of 86,000 head, of which sheep and goats account for 85% and
cattle 7%. Pig raising is a household sideline activity on Bole project
farms; pigs numbered about 9,000 in 1985. Pigs are also raised by
specialized households which belong to neighboring collectives.
2.09      Surrounded by high-quality natural grassland, Zhaosu is
ideally suited for large-scale livestock development. The two project
state farms contain 75,000 ha of grassland which support 87,000 head of
livestock, mostly sheep. The total cultivated area on the two project
farms is about 20,000 ha, most of which is either rainfed or partially
irrigated. Nearly all of this area is planted with wheat and
rapeseed, grown mostly for local consumption. Emin is also an
important livestock area. Project state farms in Emin manage an
estimated 143,000 ha of grassland which support a livestock population
of about 165,000, primarily sheep and goats. Wheat and oilseed
dominate crop cultivation. Plans are to increase wheat yields through
improved irrigation, to reduce the area planted with oilseed, and to
increase alfalfa production. At present, about 17% of total grain
production is shipped outside the area, mainly to Karamay. On the
project state farms in Hami/Turpan, crop cultivation dominates
agriculture with livestock raising carried out as a minor sideline
activity by individual households. Major crops are wheat and various
fruits, mainly melons and grapes. Wheat occupies 70% of the cropped
area on the project state farms. Yields are low and grain must be
imported from other parts of Xinjiang. Plans are to shift production
from grains to the higher value fruits, especially grapes, for whic:i the
climate is well-suited.
2.10      In Bole, livestock production is closely linked with farming.
Individual farmers or household groups keep small flocks close to their
cultivated fields, supporting them mainly from crop byproducts. Only
replacement animals--animals which are not breeding--are taken to the
distant foothills for grazing during the spring and early summer. In
Zhaosu and Emin, animals are raised under semi-nomadic conditions in
which herdsmen and animals move in well-established seasonal patterns.
Under this system there are three grazing areas: (1) a spring/autumn
grazing area in the plains ^xsed from mid-March to mid-July and again
from mid-September to early December, (2) a winter grazing area located
in the foothills for protection from winter winds and storms and
occupied from early December to mid-March, and (3) a summer grazing area
in the mountains which is used from mid-July to mid-September. Grass is
abundant in the sumer pastures,. but thaese are accessible for only two
months of the year. Winter pastures afford some protection, but are
low-yielding and unreliable because of winter weather conditions.
Grazing pressure is thus greatest on the spring/autumn pastures which
not only must sustain the animals for six to seven months a year, but
ideally should provide supplementary fodder to carry them through the
winter months. In fact, supplies of cut fodder for winter have become
increasingly scarce in recent years as part of a downward spiral of
increased animal numbers, overgrazing and deteriorating pasture. During
the winter months, the feed constraint in combination with the severe



. 12 -
cold and the lack of animal shelters has led to high mortality rates, a
decllne In breeding efficiency (law conception rates, low number of live
births), and a decline in animal products (weight loss in meat auimls,
breaks in wool fiber). These probles are more serious for the improved
breeds recently imported to upgrade product quality than for the hardy
breeds native to XinJUang.
2.11      To reduce the burden on scarce feed supplies, state fares are
mowing to change established notions regarding herd composition: for
example, the sale of well-grown, young animals within the year is now
being encouraged so that a reduced flock or herd consisting mainly
of replacemt females and breeding animals would be carried through the
winter. Steps are also being taken to improve pastures: trials are
being conducted using improved pasture species and fencing bas been
Introduced in selected area to allow for regeneration of indigenous
grasses and controlled grazing. Although useful, efforts thus far to
create the foundation for Increased livestock production have been
largely piecomal; state farms have not had the resources to tackle on a
large-scale in an integrated project measures to improve and expand
pasture land, provide winter fodder and shelter, and improve animal
breeds.
Agro-urocess
2.12     Processing capacity for agricultural comodities produced in
the project areas is very limited. Most existing facilities are small-
scale plants established in the 1950's which are outmoded in equipment
and inefficient in design and operations. Bole at present has two
vegetable oil extraction plants, one run by the county the other by
state farms. Both use simple mechanical screw presses. Product yields
and quality are low.  The vegetable oil processing plant in Kuitun is a
large, well-run plant with a present output of over 17,000 tons of
cotton seed oil and meal per year. Product quality is a problem,
however, due to inadequate oil refining equipment. Existing wool
processing plants in Shihezi and Yining City process about two-thirds of
the raw wool produced in Bole, Zhaosu, and Emin. Equipment and plant
design are satisfactory, but capacity is inadequate to handle total
existing output as well as planned increases in output in the project
areas. Bortala Prefecture (the site of the Bole project farms) runs
two small slaughterhouses which supply meat mainly to the population
in the immediate area. Slaughtering equipment is almost entirely
anual, cooling equipment is outdated, and the general level of hygiene
In both operations is very low. No meat is processed. The fruit
processing industry In the Hami/Turpan area, though still small-scale,
bas undergone some recent expansion in operations. Within the past five
years, three wineries and one fruit juice plant have been established,
one of them a joint venture with a foreign firm. State farms in Turpan
bave also set up simple operations for processing grapes into raisins.
Grapes are air-dried naturally, a method which is slow but inexpensive
and appropriate to the climate. Sortling and packaging are done manually
wilth resultant problem of quality control and product losses.
Infrastructure and Support Services
2.13    Iransprt and Pover Facilities.  The project areas are all



- 13 *
connected to Urumqi and other major towns by all-weather roads. The
main highway to the northwest Is being upgraded. The railway is being
extended west of Urumqi and is scheduled to reach Wusu, about 200 km
west of the capital by 1987 and by 1990 to reach Bole and the Alashan
Pass at the border with the USSR. Existing electrical transmission and
distribution lines which are part of the Xinjiang Regional power grid
serve state farms in Zhaosu, Ruin, Hami/Turpan and the cities of Yining
and Kultun. Bole has its own network. Electric supply in all project
areas Is mainly generated by small to medium size hydropower schemes.
A few diesel and thermal power plants also function as standby units
during the winter months. In Bole, construction of a 2 x 6,000 kW
thermal power plant is being planned to meet the additional need for
power to operate project tubewells and agro-processing facilities.
2.14     Irriaatio  Organizations.  Management of Xinjiang's water
reo8ur0es is the jolt responsiblity of the Xinjiang Water Resources
Bureau and the XAITC Water Management Bureau both of which operate
under the overall policy direction of the Ministry of Water Resources
and Electric Power (MVREP).  Lower level management units include county
and prefecture water resources bureaus, branch company water management
divisLons, and water management departments on each state farm.
Xinjiang is divided into 25 major irrigation command areas, each serving
20,000 ha or more, about 400 medium scale (700-20,000 ha) areas, and
over 500 small-scale (under 700 ha) schemes.
2.15     Aaricultural Credit.  The Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) is
the main institution charged with the mobilization of funds and
financing of development activities in rural areas. ABC is represented
in Xinjiang by a network of offices at the regional, prefecture, county
and township levels and on each state farm. ABC extends loans for
agriculture (crops, livestock and aquaculture) and industrial and
comercial activities to collective and state-owned enterprises and
individual households. Interest rates are currently 7.92% for one-year
working capital loans and range from 7.92 to 10.8% for fixed asset
loans. Interest rates payable to individuals for time deposits range
from 5.4% (six months) to 8.28% (five years). Though the various
enterprises within the state farms system as well as the individual
farms and their constituent households are eligible to borrow from ABC,
such borrowing to date has been limited. The major source of capital
construction and working capital funds has been low-interest or
interest-free budgetary funds channeled to state farms as part of the
'within plan" allocation. However, the role of ABC in credit extension
to state farms   enterprises and households may be expected to increase
as the Government increasingly shifts from grant to loan financing of
development projects and from subsidized interest rates to rates which
approximate the opportunity cost of capital.
2.16     Research. Extension and Training. Xinjiang has a well-
established institutional structure for agricultural research,
extension, and training which has been notably effective in channeling
improved technology and research results to farmers. The Xinjiang
Acadey of Agricultural Sciences, a branch of MAAF's Chinese Academy of
Agricultural Sciences, opera,es 54 prefectural and county institutes
which conduct research in agriculture and animl husbandry. The XAITC
runs a parallel network of institutes under its own Academy of



- 14 -
Agricultural Sciences. This includes 17 institutes directly under the
XAITC and 14 under the branch companies. Institutes located in the
vicinity of the project areas include: three institutes in Bole City
handling animal sciences, land improvement, and general agriculture;
institutes for wheat and corn research and grassland research in Ylli
Prefecture (Zhaosu); institutes for grassland research and wheat and
rapeseed research in Tacheng (near Emin); and a general agricultural
research institute at Hami. The XAITC research network has a staff of
about 5,500 researchers and technicians. The design and funding of
research programs for the region as a whole are coordinated by the
Xinjiang Science and Technology Commission. The total research budget
of the XAITC in 1985 was 6.1 million yudn, about 60% of it in the form
of a grant from the Central Government.
2.17     County and state firm research institutes typically are
involved more in extension aid demonstration work than actual research.
In addition, extension serv'ces and short-term training programs for
farmers are provided by county agro-technical extension stations, state
farms agricultural experiment stations, and state farms livestock
stations. The experiment and livestock stations on the 20 project state
farms are staffed by about 270 technicians. This gives a
ratio of about one technician per 130 farmers. The major source
of new recruits for the research and extension organizations are the
Xinjiang August First Agricultural College (errollment 2,255), the
Shihezi Agricultural College (enrollment 1,300), and 13 secondary or
polytechnic level agriculture schools which have a combined enrollment
of about 2,000. These institutions also offer upgrading programs for
existing research/extension staff. Demand for agricultural researchers
and technicians is expected to rise markedly in response to plans for
diversification and expansion of agriculture in Xinjiang. Moreover, the
increased emphasis on development of agribusiness, expansion of agro-
processing, and production for export will create an additional demand
for personnel trained in such areas as business, finance, marketing, and
management. To meet this demand, the branch companies are sponsoring
large programs of education and training in both technical and
management fields. For example, the Bole Branch Company is at present
financing university-level training for 500 personnel; this includes 35
participants in a year-long course in business administration at the
Tianjin Management Institute. In addition, in 1985 more than 300
personnel attended short-term courses in such areas as accounting and
finance, management of irrigated farming, and maintenance and repair of
farm machinery.



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
Project Description
3.01     The project includes irrigation of 32,300 ha for food, fiber
and fodder crops, improvement of 44,700 ha of rainfed pasture, intro-
duction of improved animal breeds, and construction of agro-processing
plants. The project would serve as a model for more productive use of
Xinjiang's arid lands for crop and livestock production. The main
features of the project are as follows:
(a)   construction of irrigation works on 32,300 ha of which
20,900 ha are presently uncultivated;
(b)   improvement of rainfed pasture on 44,700 ha through
fertilizing, fencing and seeding;
(c)   provision of improved animal breeds and veterinary
and livestock equipment, and construction of
animal sheds;
(d)   construction of seven agro-processing plants and
provision of equipment;
(e)  provision of farm machinery and construction equipment;
(f) construction of housing, community facilities,
and warehouses in newly developed areas; and
(g)   local and overseas training and study tours.
Areas to be Developed
3.02      The project would be carried out on 13 state farms in three
locations near Xinjiang's western border--Bole, Zhaosu, and  Emin--and
on seven state farms to the east of Urumqi at Hami and Turpan.
Development proposed for these areas is summarized in Table 3.1.



- 16 -
Table 3.1: AREAS TO BE DEVELOPED
Bole   Zhaosu   Bmin   Hami/Turpan  Total
.  .  .  .  .  -    -   ha  - -   -   -     -  -  -  -  -
......... ... ....... ..... .............. .. ...  X*.... .......... ,........... ...... ..... 
Irrigation for:
Crops         16,700    -      5,800      1,100      23,600
Fodder           -    4,000                           4,000
Pasture        2,700         -              -         2,700
Grapes           -      -         -       2,000       2,000
Total Irrigated   19,400  4,000    5.800       3.100      32,300
Pasture
Improvement   2,700  33,300    8,700                 44,700
Irrimation
3.03     Bole. About 16,700 ha of uncultivated land on five state
farms in Bole would be developed for irrigated crop production and
2,700 ha on three state farms would be developed for irrigated
pasture. The land to be developed for crops is in numerous small
blocks of 100 to 500 ha, most of which is commanded by existing main
and branch canals. These blocks would be divided into 40 ha service
units each served by a concrete-lined lateral about 1000 m long and
with four sub-laterals spaced at 200 a. A 4 a wide gravel surfaced
road would be constructed along the lateral, together with a 4-5 a
wide windbreak. Open drains about 1.5 a deep would be excavated
between the sub-laterals to provide subsurface drainage. Land clearing
(mostly light shrubs) and land levelling would be carried out over the
area to be developed for crops. Modern laser-controlled equipment
would be used for land levelling; about 80% would be light to moderate
(200 * 400 cu m/ha) with somewhat heavier levelling on the remaining
20%. About 250 tubewells would be provided to supplemont surface water
at times of low flow and during periods of peak demand. These wells
would be spaced at 800 to 1200 m to pump water into the lateral
canals. Wells in the area generally yiold 150-200 cu m/hour and are
80-120 a deep. Casing diameter is about 4>4 m- and the molls are
fitted with submersible electric pumps. Addl%.!onal power facilities
will be included in the project to serve the tubewells.
3.04     The 2,700 ha to be developed for irrigated pasture is mostly poor
quality grassland. Only light levelling would be needed. Blocks of about
90 to 100 ha would be irrigated solely from groundwater. Each block would be
served by one well located at the center of the block. The pasture would be
cut and fed green or conserved for winter feeding. The pasture would be
grown in 60 m wide strips separated by six rows of trees (poplar and elm).
The trees serve as windbveaks, and would eventually be harvested for sale
as poles. The 19,400 ha of newly developed crop land and pasture in Bole
would be linked to the rural road system by upgrading existing tracks and
adding some new roads. These would generally be 6 a wide gravel surfaced
roads. Gravel is available within a short distance of the project sites,
tho terrain is flat, and the need for cross drainage works is limited.



- 17 -
3.05     Zhao8u. The 4,000 ha to be developed for irrigated fodder
already receives water from the Hasang River through a primitive system
of canals. The system would be improved by providing concrete lining in
two main  eanals--the Main Canal East (14 km) and the Main Canal West (16
km)--and constructing laterals, sublaterals and service units as
proposed for Bole. These would improve irrigation on 2,000 ha each in
State Farms 66 and 67.
3.06     Emin. About 50,000 ha in the Rmin project area are  served by
an existing irrigation network. However, most of this land is hilly or
gently sloping which impedes efficient distribution of water at the farm
level. As the first phase in a long-term program to deal with this
problem, the project would install a sprinkler irrigation system on
5,800 ha out of the total 50,000 ha. The land selected is on two state
farms: 3,200 ha in 13 blocks or. State Farm 166 and 2,600 ha in eight
blocks on State Farm 167. A single sprinkler unit would serve about 250
ha. It would be supplied through a head pond filled by existing
irrigation bhannels. The land below the ponds is of sufficient slope
that the sprinklers would operate by gravity pressure rather than
pumping. The main line would consist of abcout 1,500 m of 400 mm
diameter concrete pipe installed underground. Branch lines, consisting
of 600 a to 800 a of 250 mm pipe, would connect with movable aluminum
laterals to which the sprinkler heads are attched.
3.07    Hami/Turpan. At Hsai, about 1,500 ha would be developed for
irrigated grape production by converting 1,100 ha of irrigated wheat to
grapes and reclaiming 400 ha of wasteland. A further 1,100 ha of
wasteland would be reclaimed for wheat production to compensate for the
loss of the irrigated wheat areas. Existing surface water irrigation on
the land converted from wheat would be supplemented by ten tubewells.
On the reclaimed land, groundwater would be the main sou.ce of water
supply and 20 wells would serve the 400 ha of grapes and 50 wells the
1,100 ha of wheat. Wells in the area yield 100-140 cu m/hr and are 50
to 100 a deep. Trellises would be erected at Hami and on 500 ha at
Turpan. At Turpan, project activities would be limited to provision of
trellises since irrigation is already available on the 500 ha of
=ixisting two-year old vines. The trellises would be constructed of
concrete posts and beams with wires attached to support the vines.
Pasture InDrovement.
3.08      Three types of natural grassland would be dealt with in this
component. The first is low quality rangeland in areas of low rainfall
(2,700 ha at Bole). This land would be fenced in 200 ha blocks and
seeded with a local variety of xerophytic shrub. Trials in these areas
have sbown that fencing to exclude animals for a year or two allows good
rgeneration of overgrazed grassland, and that subsequent rotational
grazing in the fenced areas leads to further increases in grassland
carrying capacity. The second type of grassland is in areas of higher
rainfall (23,300 ha at Zhaosu and 8,700 ha at Emin) where fencing
permits longer and controlled grazing periods. On the third typ of
grassland (10,000 ha at Zhaosu), natural conditions favor the use of
more costly inputs such as fertilizer and Improved pasture species. White
clover, alfalfa and selected grasses (Bromus. Dactylis and AaroDVron



- 18 -
species) have been introduced successfully in trial areas. Fertilizer
application would be triple superphosphate Lt the rate of 150 kg per ha
once a year. These areas would also be fenced in 200 ha blocks to
facilitate menagement.
Livestock Development
3.09     Improved breeds to be imported to upgrade the local herds would
include:
(a)   320 head of Simmental and Holstein  cattle  (300
cows, 20 bulls);
(b)   110 Merino stud rams; and
kc)   60 Yorkshire pigs (50 sows, 10 boars).
3.10      Equipment would be procured for veterinary and artificial
insemination centers on each of the 13 state farms in Bole, Zhaosu and
Emin. The project would also provide equipment to mechanize sheep
shearing and improve wool handling on one farm in each of the project
areas.
3.11     About 180,000 sq m of animal sheds would be constructed in the
foothills of the Zhaosu and Emin project areas to provide shelter
during the period of winter grazing (para. 2.10). The sheds would be
simple in design and would be constructed using local bricks, cement and
thatch for insulation.   They would have facilities for drinking water,
waste disposal, care of young animals, and treatment of sick animals.
Aro-processim
3.12     The project would support an agro-processing component based
on expanded production of raw materials as a result of the project.
XAITC has proposed to construct and equip two slaughterhouses (at Bole
and Zhaosu), two wool processing plants (at Emin and Yining City), two
cottonseed oil plants (at Bole and Kuitun City), and a raisin plant (at
Hami). Detailed technical studies of the seven plants have been prepared
by the XAITC with the assistance of central and regional design
institutes specializing in the various products. Preliminary estimates
of economic and financial rates of return for these plants appear
satisfactory except in the case of the lmin wool processing plant which
is marginal (Annex 3). To confirm the economic viability of the six
plants and to reassess inclusion of the 1min plant in the project,
detailed studies of financial and economic feasibility would be
carried out by XAITC and submitted to IDA for review and approval
before bid invitation. An assurance to this effect was obtained
from the Government at negotiations. An understanding was
reached at negotiations on the form and content of the feasibility
studies, s2nd that an economic rate of return of at least 12% would be
a criterion of acceptance. In the event that any of the seven agro-
processing facilities show economic rates of return below 12%, revised
or alternative proposals for processing agricultural products produced
by the project would be considered as candidates for project
financing. The proposed agro-processing facilities are described below



* 19 -
and equipment lists are given in Annex 2.
3.13      Slaughterhouses.   The number of animals, mainly sheep, cattle
and pigs, would increase as a result of improvements in pasture, feed
supplies, and livestock management. Existing slaughterhouse facilities
at Bole and Zhaosu are poorly-equipped, unhygienic, and low-capacity
operations (para. 2.12). To meet additional output from the project
and neighboring areas and to upgrade product quality, the project would
construct and equip a modern slaughterhouse at Bole with an annual
capacity of 22,500 pigs, 104,000 sheep, and 2,900 cattle and one at
Zhaosu which would handle 120,000 sheep and 12,000 cattle per year. The
Bole plant vtuld have a processing line for pork and two lines
appropriate for either sheep or cattle. Cold storage and freezing
facilities would be included at both the Bole and Zhaosu plants. About
35* of the mutton, beef and pork production would be sold fresh and 65%
frozen; an additional 30% of the pork would be processed into sausages
and other partially cooked products.
3.14     Wool Processing Plants.  At present, the raw wool produced in
the Bole, Zhaosu and Emin project areas is either processed in Shihezi
and Yining or shipped unprocessed to eastern China. Since the Yining
and Shihezi plants are already operating at full capacity, the project
would construct and equip two new plants, one at Emin, the other at
Yining, to handle total present production as well as project output.
Each of the proposed plants would have the capacity to process 3,000
tons of raw wool into 1,000 tons of slivers (semi-processed wool) per
year. The Yining plant includes a knitting and fabric line for
production of a wool-rabbit hair (Angora) blend.
3.15       Cottonseed Oil Plants. The project would upgrade an existing,
poorly-equipped cottonseed oil plant at Bole (para. 2.12), by installing
a 2.1 ton/hour capacity solvent extraction unit (consisting of a rotary
extraction cell, drier, distillation unit and recovery unit for hexane)
and a 1.25 ton/hour capacity oil neutralization unit. Attention
wou!d be given to equipment layout and overall plant design, especially
as they relate to maintenance of hygienic L.onditions and safety
standards for workers. The plant presently operating at Kuitun would be
upgraded from the standpoint of product quality by addition of equipment
for bleaching (1.7 ton/hour), deodorizing, and hydrogenation (0.9
ton/hour).
3.16      Grape Processing. At full development, about 90% or 24,000
tons of the grapes produced on project farms at Hami/Turpan would be
processed into raisins with the remaining 10% made into wine or sold as
table grapes. Given moisture loss during processing, the standard
conversion by weight of grapes to raisins is 5:1.   Facilities to dry,
clean, grade and package about 4,000 tons of raisins annually would be
constructed at Hami. Grapes produced at Turpan would be air dried and
then transported to Hami for processing.
Eq.lipment and Materials
3.17     The short growing season in the project areas makes it
necessary to supplement farm labor with equipment for land preparation,
planting and harvesting. The equipment to be provided by the project



* 20*
itnludes combine harvesters and tractors (60 to 160 UP) with farm
ioplements. lT  pature Improvement and lvestock  no moents
would be   ortd by ors, balers,  1a            quipment, veterinary
equipment, and eqipmest to mechanize shee  Shearin& and wool handling.
pquimnt to be provided for land l3.ve4ig and cana construction would
Include self-propelled scrapers with,'loar. cntrol, bulldozers, backhoes
and dump trucks. TransportatLon e4uipment wuld include geeral purpose
trucks, fuel tankers and refriprated  kucas. TM project would also
Include procur nt of steel, timbro and a'  t mainly for use In
construction of agro-processing plants.           lisp nt ists are given in
Annx 2.
Buildinas
3.18    The project would include construction of 200,000 sq a of
buildings, excluding animal sheds and agro-processing facilities. Nearly
half of this total would be housing for farmers who have land use contracts
for management of newly developed land, mainly in the Sole project rea.
Warehouses and garas account for another 25S and the remainder chiefly
includes coumnity facilities such as schools,  cUnis and offices.
Buildings would be constructed of brick, tile and concrete according to
local standards for siUmila construction.
Trainnwa
3.19    The project would provide training to upgrade the skills of
local state farms pr somnel and introduce them to new technology in the
following areas:
a) the use of modern construction equipment (especlally land
levelling) and agricultural mahinery;
b) the design, Installation and operation of sprinkler Irrigation systems;
c) the slectlon of cold-tolerant pasture species;
d) the dsign and Installation of fencing systems;
*) the use of modern sheep shearing and wool hannding equipmnt; and
f)  the anageent, operation and maintenance of agro-processing
Plants.
This training would be provided In sevral ways. Training In the
operation, maintennce and repair of machinery and equipment
would be provided In part by equlpmnt supplers as part of their
contracts. This bh  worked well In previous IDA-financed projects
in China. Additional training in this area and other fields
would be provided through stuy tours abrod, short-term cous"s
conducted locally and oversa, and vislts of exerts to the
project are  for tbree to four mnths (Anne 2). W*h the
project provides necessary funding for the  activities, so  of
the traini   may be provided by bilateral sources who hae
e3pressed interet.  During nSotiAtions an asOurancO was obtained
that the training compownt would be carried out in accordnce with a



a 21 -
schedule acceptable to IDA, and that the details and schedule of the
proposed training program would be submitted for review by June 30, 1987.
Water Supply and Demand
3.20     Mountain streams fed by snowmelt are the main sources of
surface water for the project area. Typically, the stream flow begins
to rise in late March, reaches a peak in July and gradually falls off
to the end of October. Flows from year %o year are more dependable
than streams supplied by rainfall. Records have been kept for all of
the useable stream since the 1950's. The water is of excellent
quality. Groundwater is available throughout the project areas at
depths of 50-120 m. Yields of wells range from 100 to 200 cu m per
hour. The water quality is good, generally between 500 and 1000 ppm
total dissolved solids.
3.21     One of the project areas, Zhaosu, is traversed by an inter-
national waterway; namely, the Yili River. Zhaosu lies within the
catchbent of the Hasang, a small branch of the Tekes River which is a
major tributary of the Yili. The entire normal flow of the Hasang is
already be'rg abstracted for irrigation. For most of the year there
is no flow   am the Hasang into the Tekes River which originates in
the USSR an -intually joins the much larger Yili River which flows
from China xc  rhe USSR.  The project works in the Zhaosu area
consist of rehabilitating the existing irrigation system thus making
more efficient use of available water and benefitting a larger area.
The project component would not affect the quality and quantity of
flows into the USSR, and since there is no relevant riparian
agreement, no notification of riparians would be necessary.
3.22     Bole. The seven state farms involved in the project have
23,000 hb of lmad served by existing irrigation systems which are
supplied by five rivers. At present there is surplus water available
in all months of the growing season. However, the addition of 16,700
ha of irrigated crop land will require tubewells to supplement surface
water supplies. Detailed studies of supply and demand carried out by
the XAITC Water Management Bureau show that about 250 wells would be
needed to meet peak demands. The total demand (existing plus the
project) is about 265 mcm of which 65 mem would come from groundwater,
with a monthly peak demand of 22 mcm in July; this would require the
wells to operate at a utilization factor of about 70%.
3.23     Zhsosu. The 4,000 ha of land to be developed by the project
already receive water from the Hasang River. Improvement of the
irrigation system would reduce losses and the existing supply would be
more than adequate for the area to be developed.
3.24     Emin. Numerous streams have been d-veloped at !min to
irrigate some 50,000 ha. However, the hilly terrain presents problems
for surface irrigation and the aim is gradually t, convert to
sprinklers. The 5,800 ha to be developed by the tiroject already has
an ample supply of water which will be used more efficiently through
the use of sprinklers.
3.25     al/TurE"n. The 1,100 ha of presently cultivated land to be
developed for grapes Is already irrigated from streams and springs,



- 22 -
but 50 tubewells would be added to assure an adequate supply. The new
area (400 ha) to be developed would be supplied from tubewells.
Status of Design
3.26     All the areas to be irrigated have been selected and
alignment surveys completed for all main, branch and lateral canals.
These provide an accurate basis for quantity estimates. Service units
will be surveyed to a scale 1/4,000 and detailed layouts and land
levelling plans prepared well in advance of each constnrction season.
Estimates for service wnits are based on existing irrigated areas
close to the project areas. Designs for the agro-processing plants
will be coordinated with the equipment layouts prepared by the
equipment suppliers.
Implementation Schedule
3.27     The projeet would be constructed over a period of about five
years from the start of the 1987 construction season in March to the
end of the 1991 construction season in October. Land development,
irrigation works and building construction would be mostly confined to
the period March through October. Bids would be invited for
construction equipment in early 1987 and the equipment would be
delivered well in advance of the 1988 construction season. Work would
begin in March 1987 using existing equipment supplemented by some
imported equipment for which retroactive financing would be provided
(para.3.31). Procurement of agricultural machinery would begin in 1988
so that the machinery becomes available as the new land is developed.
Procurement of agro-processing equipment would also begin in 1988 and
the new plants would come on line in 1989. An implementation schedule
is given in Annex 4.
Cost Estimates
3.28     The total project cost is estinated at US$115 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$70 million or 60% of the total. Cost
estimates for the irrigation works are based on the quantity estimates
described in para. 3.26. Unit prices are based on similar work
recently carried out in the project areas updated to December 1986
prices. Unit prices for work items employing project-supplied
equipment--e.g., land levelling and canal excavation--include fuel,
operator costs and overhead but exclude owning costs for equipment.
All unit prices include 10% for engineering and management. Civil
works and buildings have a relatively high foreign exchange component
because China is a net importer of refined petroleum products, cement,
and construction steel which account for a high proportion of unit
costs relative to the low wages paid to the construction trades in
China. Physical corttingencies of 15% have been added to civil works
costs. Price escalation for both foreign and local costs when
expressed in US dollars is based on annual international price
escalation rates for all goods and services of 3% in 1987, 1% in 1988-
90, and 3.5% in 1991-93; and when expressed in yuan, is based on price
escalation rates of 6.50 in 1987-90 and 4.5% in 1991-93. Estimated
costs are summarized in Table 3.2 and further details are given in Annex 2.



- 23 -
Table 3.2: COST SUMMARY
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Fx
-   (Y million)-----  ----(US$ million)----  *
Irrigation        76.1    62.3   138.4    20.6   16.8    37.4  45
Pasture
Improvement      4.4     3.6      8.0     1.2    1.0     2.2  45
Livestock
Development     13.2    10.8    24.0      3.6    2.9     6.5  45
Agroprocessing    24.8    74.4    99.2      6.7   20.1    26.8  75
Machinery and
Equipment        0.0    63.4    63.4      0.0   17.1    17.1 100
Buildings         27.1      9.0    36.1     7.3    2.4     9.8  25
Training           2.6      3.1     5.7     0.7    0.8     1.5  55
Base  Cost  148.2   226.7   374.9    40.1   61.3   101.3  60
Physical
contingencies   13.2    20.2    33.3      3.3    5.7     9.0
Expected price
increases       23.9    36.6    60.5      1.6    3.0     4.6
Total prolect
cost        185.3   283.4   468.7    45.0   70.0   115.0  60
Financing
3.29      Bank Group assistance would be an IDA Credit of SDR 57.3 million
(US$70 million equivalent) and would cover the foreign exchange
component which is 60% of the total project cost. The balance of US$45
million would be met by the Government (US$22 million) and XAITC and
branch companies (US$23 million).
Procurement
3.30      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3. Agro-
processing equipment (US$13.0 million), construction and farm
machinery and vehicles (US$15.0 million), construction materials
(US$10.0 million), electrification materials (US$ 1.0 million) and
livestock (US$2.0 million) would be procured on the basis of
internattonal competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. Qualified domestic manufacturers would be awarded a
preference over competing foreign bidders of 15% or the customs duty,
whichever is lower, in bid comparison. Preparation of bid documents
would be carried out by the China National Machinery Import and Export
Corporation (CNMIEC). Bid invitation, evaluation and award
recommendation would be the responsibility of CNMIEC in consultation
with the XAITC.   Boilers and storage bins for agro-processing plants



- 24 -
(US$3.0 million) would be procured through local competitive bidding
(LCB) in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA; experience in
China bas shown that such bulky components can be fabricated close to
the project areas and gre of no interest to foreign bidders.
Miscellaneous equipment such as truck trailers, small agricultural
iUplements, pumps and motors for sprinkler systems (US$1.0 million)
would also be procured through LCB. Civil works, including land
dewelopment and irrigation (US$40.0 million) and building construction
(US$23.5 million), v4idely scattered and carried out over five years,
would be too dispersed to be suitable for ICB. These works would be
carried out for the most part by state farms and branch company
construction teams in accordance with local procedures including force
account. The recent trend is toward competitive bidding for local
construction jobs with construction teams from the state farms and
collective sectors and from Xinjiang and other provinces participating
in the bidding. Wherever feasible, project management would encourage
competitive bidding. Goods costing not more than US$150,000 per
contract and aggregating to not more than US$4.0 million would be
procured on the basis of quotations from three qualified suppliers in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. Prior IDA review
would include all ICB contracts and all other contracts for goods
exceeding US$500,000. Consultants would be selected under terms of
reforence agreed with IDA and in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines
on the use of consultants.
Disbursements
3.31     Disbursements for agro-processing equipment, construction and farm
machinery, vehicles, livestock, and construction and electrifi- cation
materials would be made at 100% o! the foreign exehange cost for directly
Lmported items or 100% of the ex-factory cost for locally manufautured
Items and 750 of local expenditures for Imported items procured locally.
Disbursements for overseas training and consultant services would be at
100% of total expenditures. Disbursements for land development and
Irrigation works would be at 50% of total expenditures. Retroactive
financing of SDR 410,000 would be provided for construction machinery
expenditures incurred after July 1, 1986. Disbursements for overseas
training, contracts for consultants, equipment, livestock, machinery and
vehicles costing less than US$200,000, land development and irrigation
works would be made against statements of expenditure (SOIs). Iri the case
of land development and irrigation works, SOls would be supported by
progress reports showing physical quantities and unit prices which would be
updated annually by the project offices and reviewed by IDA. Supporting
docum_nts would be retained in the project offices and be made available to
IDA supervision missions. In order to provide for the efficient
disburssment of the Credit proceeds, a special account would be opened in
Us dollars In a bank acceptable to IDA with an initial deposit of US dollar
equivalent of 8DR 4,100,000. Applications for replenishment of the special
account vould be submitted quarterly, or whenever the special aczount is
drawn down to 50% of its initial deposit, whichever comes first.



v 25 -
Table 3.3:  IROCRKY  PRPILE
(Us$ million)
ICs    LUS    Other/a   Total
Irrigation and pasture                             40.0    40.0
improvement                                      (20.0)   (20.0)
Agro-processlng equipmnt          13.0     3.0      2.0     18.0
(13.0)   (3.0)    (2.0)   (18.0)
Machinery & vehicles              15.0     1.0      2.0     18.0
(15.0)   (1.0)    (2.0)   (18.0)
Livestock                          2.0                       2.0
(2.0)                     (2.0)
luildings                                          23.5     23.5
(0.0)    (0.0)
construction materlals            10.0                      10.0
(10.0)                    (10.0)
Blectriflcation                    1.0               .5      1.5
(1.0)            (0.0)    (1.0)
Training                                            2.0      2.0
(1.0)    (1.0)
Total                       41.0     4.0     68.0    115.0
(41.0)   (4.0)   (25.0)   (70.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed
by IDA and include contingencies.
/a    Includes  force  accout construction, goods procured
through shopping procedues, and training md study tours.



- 26 -
3.32      It is estimated that the project would be completed about
December 31, 1991, and the closing date would be December 31, 1992.
The disbursement experience in China, although short, has been
favorable and better than Bank-wide and regional averages. The
projected disbursement profile is in line with that for specific
investment loans in China.  Estimated schedules of expenditures and
disbursements are given in Annex 2.
Accounts and Audits
3.33     Records of expenditures on civil works, machinery and
vehicles, construction and electrification materials, and livestock
would be maintained by the project units of participating state farms.
These records would be forwarded to branch company project offices
which would prepare consolidated accounts including their own records
of expenditures on civil works and agro-processing equipment. The
XAITC, in turn, wou.d compile a complete report on project
expenditures to be submitted to the BSF for review. Assurances were
obtained from the Government at negotiations that the XAITC would
maintain consolidated project accounts for auditing annually by the
State Audit Agency and that the audited accounts would be submitted to
IDA within six months of the close of each financial year.
Environmental Effects
3.34      Project activities would improve environmental conditions
and no detrimental effects are anticipated. Environmental impact
studies were undertaken by the Xinjiang Regional Bureau of
Environmental Protection for each of the project areas. Environmental
control standards for each area would be enforced in accordance with
national regulations. Drainage and irrigation would reduce salinity
and drought and improve the environment for crop production. The tree
crop-pasture intercropping would reduce wind erosion by providing
additional ground cover. The additional cover provided by trees and
crops would lead to an increase in the number and species of wildlife
in the project areas. Provision for waste control is being included as
required in the design of the agro-processing plants. An assurance
was obtained from the Government at negotiations that a report
containing a detailed description of waste disposal measures for each
agro-processing plant would be submitted to IDA for review and
approval before bid invitation.



- 27 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Prolect Organization and Implementation
4.01     General. The proposed project would be executed by the
Xinjiang Agriculture, Industry and Trade Corporation (XAITC) under the
overall direction of the Bureau of State Farms (BSF) in the Ministry
of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries (MAAF) (Chart 1). The
BSF's Foreign Investment Management Office (FIMO), which is currently
supervising three ongoing Bank projects (Heilongjiang, Rubber
Development, and Seeds), would provide general guidance to the XAITC,
particularly in procurement matters, and would serve as the main link
with IDA. XAITC and the four branch companies involved in the
project--Bole, Yili (Zhaosu), Emin and Hami--have established
coordinating committees to provide policy guidance and facilitate
inter-agency coordination. Project offices at the XAITC, branch
company, state farm and enterprise levels would handle the day-to-day
affairs of the project. Land developed by the project for crop and
livestock production would be worked by farm families or groups under
the production responsibility system.  Project agro-processing
facilities would be run as state-owned enterprises registered with the
General Administration of Industry and Commerce (GAIC) in accordance
with State Council Regulations. The organization for project
implementation is shown in Chart 2.
4.02     BSF Foreign Investment Management Office.  The FIMO would be
responsible for overall direction of the project, liaison with IDA,
and coordination with other Ministries. It would review project
accounts, administer the overseas training program, prepare
applications for IDA disbursements, and exercise oversight on all
aspects of project execution. The FINO would also assist XAITC in
procurement of equipment required by the project. The CNMIEC, in
consultation with XAITC, would be responsible for bid invitation, bid
evaluation, and contract award.
4.03     Coordinating Committees and Project Offices.  The XAITC
Coordinating Committee (CC), made up of representatives from such
XAITC agencies as the Materials Supply Bureau, the Capital
Construction Bureau, the Agriculture Bureau, and the Planning and
Finance Bureau, would function as a policy, planning, and review board
for the project. The CC would meet periodically as needed to
coordinate the activities of these agencies in project implementation
and to make project-related policy decisions. The CC would also serve
to keep the Regional  Government apprised of overall progress in
project implementation.
4.04      Primary responsibility for design, procurement and
construction supervision would rest with the XAITC which was
responsible for project preparation. A Xinjiang Foreign Investment
Management Office (XFINO), established at XAITC headquarters in Urumqi
to handle Xinjiang's components of the Seeds and Second Agricultural
Research Projects, would be ex*anded to manage overall implementation



- 28 -
of project activities in Bole, Zhaosu, Rmin, and Haui. The XFI3O,
headed by the ZAITC General Maager and two deputies, bas a staff of
oeperienced teoial and mnagerial personnel, including engineers,
ccountants, economisto and agriculturalists. It consists of
divisions of finance ad budget, equlpment procurement, technical
assistance and training, and onitoring and evaluation. It would
supervise project implp _ntat_.^ activities of the participating
branch companies (4) and state farms (20); prepare annual work
programs and budgets for land devolopment and other project works;
help coordinate inter-agency activities; secure all Regional
Govrnmnt approvals; review technical standards for design and
construction of project works; approve construction contracts and
supervise construction; nominate candidates for training; and arrange
for distribution of equipment and machinery financed by the IDA
credit. The XFIMO would approve disbursement of IDA and Government
funds by the provincial People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC) to
branch company and state farm accounts and monitor repayment of these
funds.
4.05    A structure of coordinating committees and project offices
similar to that at the XITC level has been established for the four
project branch companis In Bole, Yili (Zhaosu), Ruin and Hami.
Branch company CCs, uade up of representatives from relevant
administrative and technical divisions within the branch company,
wold meet periodically to review program  and project budgets
prepared by implementing units and to assess progress in
tiplementation. Zach branch company Project Office (PO) consists of a
director, deputy director and 7-10 staff members drawn from the
company who are qualified livestock specialists, irrigation
engineers, agronomists, mechanical engineers, economists and
accountants. The branch company POs would be responsible for
preparing preliminary site surveys and designs, construction contracts
with company construction units, and annual budgets. They would also,
with the assistance of the local PCBC branch, supervise construction
progress and coordinate loan collection for project state farms and
enterprises.
4.06        Project Units (PUs) have been established for each of the
-20 state farms and sevon agro-rrocessing facilities. State farms PUs
would be primarily involved in arranging for construction of project
works; specifically, they would organize labor for such tasks as road
construction, tree planting, and erection of fences anud would contract
with the state farms construction teams for such mechanized work as
land levelling, excavation of drainage dLtches, and tubewell
construction. They would also be responsible for the project during
the production phase including supervision of contracts with farm
families and groups. PUs for the agro-processing facilities would
work directly with the branch company P0. in arranging for
construction of buildings and procurement and installation of
equipment. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the XFIHD,
the branch company YOs, and the state farm and enterprise PUs would be
maintained during the project implementation period with a staff,
functions, and responsibilities acceptable to IDA.



- 29 *
4 07    Farm Households. Rights to use land newly developed by the
project would be granted by state farms through renewable, long term
contracts to individuals or farm families in parcels whose size vould
be determined by household labor capacity for the particular type of
activity. For fnamilies engaged in livestock production, animals would
also be allocated on a per worker basis. Farmers/herdsmen would be
selected for crop and livestock contracts by the state farm management
on the basis of previous output performance, demonstrated skills, and
level of education and training. Since the newly developed areas
would generally require greater inputs of physical labor for initial
cultivation, most contracts for this type of land would be given to
young farmers who are recent middle school graduates. Rights to use
improved land would be maintained through a continuation of existing
contracts with production quotas and fees adjusted annually as is
current practice. Contracts on both new and improved land would
specify the amount of land to be cultivated, expected level of
production, purchase price to be paid by state farm to farmer for
agreed quotas, amount of profit to be turned over to the state farm,
charges for use of service facilities, advances made by farm to farmer
for purchase of fuel and other inputs, agricultural taxes, and number
of days of labor to be contributed to maintenance of public works.
Farmers would retain the option to use any available channels for sale
of above quota production.
4.08    Operation of Agro-processina Facilities. Project agro-
processing facilities would be owned by the branch companies and
operated as commercial activities with their output priced at
competitive market levels. Legally, they would have the status of
state-owned enterprises with charters registered with the GAIC
defining the scope of their activities, sources and amount of capital,
borrowing powers and management structure. Raw materials for
processing would be supplied by both state farms and collectives.
About 80% of project production would be consumed domestically with
the rest exported abroad, mainly to markets in Japan, Hong Kong and
Southeast Asian countries.
Financial hrranaements
4.09   Terms and Conditions.  'n line with current budgetary practice,
proceeds of the IDA Credit would be passed internally by the Ministry of
Finance ("OF) through NAAF to the XAITC at a 4% interest rate p.a., with
repayment over 20 years Including a five year grace period. The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by XAITC. Domestic funds, which would account
for about 40% of project costs, would come from contributions by the Central
Government in the form of a special budgetary allocation and from the
resources of the XAITC, its branches, individual state farms and enterprises.
4.10     Project investments in agro-processing enterprises would be funded
by a mix of interest-bearing loans, equity, and local contributions
generated by enterprise earningp. The costs of civil works for these
enterprises would be covered by local contributions. For IDA funds provided
by ZAITC to agro-processing enterprises under the project, depending on the
finLacial requirements of the enterprise, up to 50* of the funds could be
treated as equity investment by XAITC (or its branches) in the enterprise,
while the remainder would be passed on as a loan at an interest rate in line



- 30 -
with prevailing rates applied by ABC to comparable loans. An assurance to
this effect was obtained from the Government at negotiations. Loan
repayments and XAITC receipts from enterprise distribution of profits would
provide XAITC's resources for repayment of obligations to MOP. An assurance
was obtained from the Government at negotiations that proceeds of the Credit
provided to state farms for land development would be fully recovered
through XAITC's normal contractual arrangements on terms equivalent to the
blended cost of all funds provided for this purpose. State farms would
recover costs from household or group farms participating in the project.
In line with current practice under the production responsibility system,
state farms would enter into contracts with these households or groups
specifying the farm's responsibility regarding farm management, input
supply, and commodity purchase and the farmer's obligation to repay the
costs of inputs, services, and capital investment.
4.11     Channelini of Funds.  Most IDA funds would be disbursed
directly to vendors under standard ICB trrangements. The remaining
IDA funds and all domestic funds would be channeled through the PCBC
and, upon approval of local project offices, would be disbursed
against project expenditures. PCBC branches at the county and
prefectural levels would be responsible for collection of all project
repayments for transfer to XAITC's account with the Xinjiang Regional
PCBC (Chart 3).
Prolect Launch Workshop
4.12     To initiate the implementation phase of the proposed project,
Swnk and local, staff would conduct a project launch workshop in
Xinjiang for staff of the XAITC, branch companies, and state farms who
are responsibl. for carrying out the proposed project. The purpose of
the workshop would be to review the total process of implementation
and to clarify individual tasks and responsibilities at each level.
Topics to be covered would include: procurement and contracting
procedures, project financial management, use of microcomputers in
project implementation, and project monitoring and evaluation. To
promote efficiency in data gathering and analysis and project
reporting, the project would provide microcomputers, typewriters, and
duplicating equipment to the XAITC and local project offices.
Execution of Prolect Works
4.13     Within the framework of review and approvals by the XFIMO,
branch company POs and state farm PUs would be responsible for
executing the project's land development, infrastructure improvement,
and agro-processing components. MNst land development including land
levelling and excavation of drainage ditches would be carried out by
the state farm's construction team using its own machinery, including
machinery furnished by the project, and its own and/or hired labor.
Infrastructure improvement, including roads involves partly manual and
partly mechanized operations. The state farm PU would organize labor
for manual tasks and would contract with the farm construction team
for work requiring Vi8e of machinery. Arrangements for constructing
agro-procossing facilities would be the responsibility of the branch
company POs working with the enterprise PUs. Construction would be
carried out by branch company construction units.



- 31 -
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
4.14     The XFIMO in cooperation with the POs and PUs would monitor
project progress and evaluate the project's economic benefits and
overall impact. Each state farm and enterprise PU would provide to
the branch company PO information on the following: progress in land
development and construction, cropping patterns, production levels,
marketing channels and prices, training, contract terms and
conditions, and incomes of project beneficiaries as well as the extent
of their participation in project activities. This information,
available in part through the state farms' routine recordkeeping
system and in part compiled from the PUs' separate records and
interviews with farm households, would be forwarded to the branch
company PO on a quarterly basis. The branch company PO would use this
information in preparing a quarterly report of physical and financial
progress, which would include as well an account of its own
expenditures. This report would be submitted to the branch company
coordinating committee and to the XFIMO. The XFIMO would review and
evaluate reports from each branch company and, on this basis, prepare
a semi-annual progress report for submission to the XAITC's
Coordinating Committee and the BSF in MAAF. The BSF would, in turn,
submit these semi-annual reports to the Bank Group. Reporting on
financial progress would include information on actual and cumulative
expenditures using a format similar to the detailed cost estimates
(Annex 2). Monitoring and evaluation by the POs and coordinating
committees at each level would be based on the quarterly and semi-
annual reports. Monitoring and evaluation methodology would be one of
the main topics of discussion at the project launch workshop to be
held at the outset of project implementation (para. 4.12).
4.15      Not later than six months following completion of credit
disbursements, the XFIMO, working with the POs and PUs, would prepare
for submission to the Bank Group a Project Completion Report (PCR) in
which project results would be compared with appraisal estimates. The
PCR would describe changes in production technology, changes in prices
in real terms, changes in earnings and incomes of project farmers,
changes in permanent employment resulting from the project, and
related cost recovery issues. The economic and financial rates of
return would be recalculated on the basis of actual costs and re-
estimated benefits.



32 -
V. PRODUCTION. MARXEING AND PRICES
Product.on
5.01       On the land to be developed for irrigated crops and fodder,
cropping patterns would generally follow those practiced on the
established areas of the st te farms. Each year, farms prepare their
cropping plans well in advance of the farming season. These plans
specify the location and area of each crop, taking into account the
farms' own needs and market prospects outside the farms. For major
export crops, such as cotton, each farm has an area allocation set by
the branch company in consultation with the XAITC. The plan for each
farm Is arrived at in consultation with farmers' comittees
representing each of the farm's brigades. Production of vegetables and
household livestock (pigs, poultry, etc.) is left to the initiative of
individual households. Crop production is carried out by individual
farmers, or groups of farmers, ander contract to the state farm (para.
4.07).
5.02      Planting and harvesting dates for the main crops  are as
follows:
Plant              Harvest
Winter Wheat           Kid-September        Nid-July
Spring Wheat          Mid-March             Early August
Corn                  April                 September
cotton                Mid-April            Mid-October
Alfalfa (4 years)      Kid-March            June/September
Crop rotation is practiced to a certain extent, with alfalfa grown in
rotation with food grains or cash crops to increase soil nitrogen.
5.03     Wheat is the preferred staple food grain in Xinjiang and
tberefore occupies an important place in the cropping pattern. With
Irrigation, good farmers achieve 4.5 t/ha and an average yield of 3.5
t/ha is attainable. The climate in Bole is especially favorable for
high quality cotton and farmers are experienced in cotton cultivation.
About 70% of the cotton produced in the province In 1985 was first
grade, long-staple cotton. Yields average 1.0 t/ha of gisnnead cotton.
Alfalfa is grown to provide feod for animals through the winter. Part
of the corn crop is also used as fodder. At Emin, the cropping pattern
with project is not expected to change sgnificantly, but improved
Irrigation would lead to much higher yields. The partially irrigated
wbast at Zbaosu would be replaced by irrigated fodder to help meet a
growing demand for foed. Irrigated pasture at Bole would consist mainly
of forage legumes and selected grasses laid out in 60 a strips between
windbreaks (six rows wide). Windbreaks would also be planted in the
Irrigated areas to provide protection against the high winds coamon in
Xnjiang. The windbreaks, mostly poplars, would also be harveted (in
rotation so as to maintain wind protection) to provide construction
pole.
5.04     The hot, dry climate in the Bami/Turpan areA provides
fwvorable conditions for producing the higb quality grapes for which the
maea bas been famus for centuries. With a total production of about



a 33 0
110,000 tons, the area supplies about 40% of China's total grape
output.  In the past, grapo production ba been pri  rily a household
operation; more recently, state farms have Initiated grape growitg on a
larIgr scale. To establish project vineyards, grape cuttlngs would be
propagated in nurseries in raised beds or under plastic cover and
planted in the fields in spring. Harvesting would take place from mid-
August through September. With the project, grape yields of 12 t/ha
would be achieved. Table 5.1 sbows cropped areas, yields and production
of main crops.
Table 5.1: CROPPED AREAS, YIELDS AND PRODUCTIOI
~~~....... ......................................... 0.... ... ......,...................  ,............  
Cropped Area         Yield          Prodution
Present Puture/a Present Future   Present Future
.---' 000 ha ----   .----- th ---  -- .. IOOoton....
..... ............_.____........................__................... ___ .......___..........._.__,*
Zhaos
Wheat        4.0      -       2.2       -       8.8
Fodder crops   -     4.0       -       5.0       -     20.0
4.0    4.0
Riol
Uncultivated 19.4     -        -                          -
Wheat         -      3.5               3.5              12.3
orn          -1.6              -       4.0       -      6.4
Alfalfa/b     -      4.0       -       6.0       -      24.0
Cotton/c             4.3       -       1.0              4.3
Pasture/b    -       2.2               4.0       -      8.8
Windbreaks/d  -      3.8               n.a.      -      n.a
19.4   19.4
kin
What        4.2    2.9       1.8      3.5       7.6   10.2
Rapeseed    1.7    1.7       1.0      2.0       1.6    3.4
Alfalfa/b    -      1.2       -       6.0        -     9.6
5.8    5.8
uaiTrvn
Uncultivated 1.5          -        -             -       -
Whe"t       1.1    1.1       2.8      3.5       3.1    3.9
Grape       0.5/o  2.0        -      12.0        -    240
3.1    3.1
Total         32.3   32.3
/a At full development. /b Hay equivalent. /c Ginned cotton
/t Harvested after 15 years at 300 cu u/ha.  /e Young vines
5.05      Livestock. A major purpose of the projeot is to ovwrcoms the
hortage of anlml feedstuffs in the project areas during the winter
months. This would allow a more blanced use of seasonal feed resource.
and thereby lead to an lnerease in livestock production. Pature
fin prov nt In Bole (2,700 ha), Zhaosu (33,300 ha), and lin (8,700



-34.
ha) through fencing, fertilizing and seeding would zes4t In the
incremental production of 54,000  tons of fodder (expressed in hay
equivalent). The irrigated pasture developed by the project in Bole
(2,700 ha) and Zhaosu (4,000 ha) and the area of alfalfa would produce
75,000 tons of fodder (hay equivalent). About 50% of the total fodder
produced wousld be conserved as hay or silage with the remainder consumed
fresh during spring-summer-autumn grazing. About 18,000 tons of feed
grain grown on cropped areas developed by the project would be processed
by local mills into balanced feed concentrate.
5.06     Increased fodder availability along with improved shelter for
animals during the winter would reduce mortality and weight loss and
lead to expansion of cattle and sheep numbers. At full development,
incremental gains in livestock at Zhaosu and Emin would amount to 86,000
sheep and 4,500 cattle. At Bolt, the new herds and flocks established
by the project would reach 70,000 sheep, 6,000 cattle and 1,250 breeding
sows in ten years. Based on these gains, state farms would market an
additional 5,460 tons of meat and 800 tOns of wool. Overall product
quality would also be improved as a result of the project-supported
program to upgrade local breeds by using imported $Simsntal and Holstein
cattle and Merino stud rams.   Incremental outputtby project area is
summarized in Table 5.2.
Table 5.2: INCRWKNTAL OUTPUT OF ANIMAL PRODUCTS
Zhaosu      Bole        Eml        Total
Hutton (tons)      1,490         800        480        2,770
Beef (tons)          865         825                  1,690
Pork (tons)                   1,000                   1,000
Wool (tons)          340         310        160         810
Hides (no.)       62,400      32,900       17,100    112,400
Pelts (no.)       13,200      9,000        5,600    27,800
Milk (tons)                    5,500                  5,500
.- - - - - - - -- - - - - - -  ....................... ... ....... .............. ............... .....................
Markets and Prices
5.07     Markets. The development of an appropriate marketing strategy
and corresponding mix of production for Xlij iang' a agriculture in the
1990s will take special account of the province's remote location and
unusual production potential. Incremental production and sales will be
concentrated in high-value products which can be transported and
marketed over long distances.  The mix of production and marketing
strategy for the proposed project closely accords with this approach;
the products to be marketed outside the project srea are high-value
crops and processed products which are easily transported by rail --
cottonseed oil and its byproducts, cotton, meat and hides, raisins, and
clean wool and wool products. All other crop production is limited to
intermediate goods, such as bay and silage which are consumed by animals
supplying project agro-processing plants, and would not enter regular
market channels.



- 35 -
5.08       Domestic  and international markets for  incremental  project
output  are expected to range from favorable to excellent.   Markets for
individual commodities are summarized below:
(a)   Grain. Xinjiang became self-sufficient in grain production in
1984/85 and it is expected that future expansion of provincial demand
for grain will be moderate. However, the market for the limited
quantity of incremental grain to be produced in project areas will be
favorable since (i) a significant portion of Xinjiang's existing food
grain area will be switched to feed and fodder production as the
province further expands and modernizes livestock production over the
next decade and (ii) grain sales to the neighboring grain-deficit
provinces of Gansu and Qinghai will continue to grow.
(b)   Cottonseed Oil. Xinjiang became self-sufficient in oilseed
production in 1984/85. However, vegetable oil has a relatively high
income elasticity of demand so that provincial demand for vegetable oil,
unlike grain, should keep pace with income growth. Demand for
incremental project vegetable oil would also be buoyed by the two
factors mentioned above favoring project grain sales. Consumers in
Xinjiang have not been widely exposed to modern refined vegetable oils,
so the initial market for the bleached and deodorized cottonseed oil and
margarine produced in the Kuitun and Bole projact areas may be weak.
Market acceptance in the longer term should be favorable since refined
vegetable oil offers significant flavor, storage, and health advantages.
(c)   Cotton. China's output of cotton increased dramatically
during the early 1980s and, despite becoming a net exporter in 1984,
stocks have now increased to alarming levels. Although the
Government successfully cut back production in 1985 by decreasing the
price to producers and reducing contract procurement, cotton supplies
still exceed demand. However, Xinjiang produces a long staple cotton of
uniform length and high tensile strength and international sales of this
superior quality cotton have not been adversely affected by the excess
supply of common grades of cotton grown elsewhere in China.
Furthermore, Xinjiang was partially exempted from the 1985 controls on
production because (i) the province enjoys lower unit production costs
and (ii) the Government attaches a high priority to fostering
development in northwest China. Foreign demand for Xinjiang
cotton continues to be extremely strong and it is expected that up to
80% of high-quality project cotton vould be released to the internat.onal
market.
(d) Meat and Hides. Per capita meat consumption in Xinjiang is now
about 13 kg per year, or only 85% of the national average. Demand
currently exceeds supply and, since meat and meat products have a high
income elasticity of demand, demand for these products should easily
keep pace with growth in provincial income. Consequently, the market
for the project's incremental meat and meat products is favorable.
Furtl^rmore, about one third of the pork handled by the slaughter-
houses in Bole and Zhaosu would be processed into sausage and
other preserved meats. These would substitute for processed products
now imported from east China and would not be subject to the
seasonality of fresh meat production in Xinjiang.



- 36 -
(e) Raisins. At less than 0.1 kg per year, per capita raisin
consumption in China is extremely low. Raisins are in short supply even
in Xinjiang where 40% of the nation's raisins are produced. Xinjiang
raisins are distinguished by their high sugar content and the fact that
no insecticides are used in their production. The project would
introduce improved raisin processing and packaging technology and It is
expected that 80% of the project's raisin production would be marketed
at premium prices outside the project area and abroad.
(f) Wool and Wool Products. China annually Imports close to US$100
million of wool, or about 60,000 tons. Incremental fine wool production
in the Zhaosu, Emin, and Bole project areas would substitute for these
imports, with 50% of production marketed within Xinjiang and the
remainder sold to provinces on the eastern seaboard.
5.09      Prices. As part of the 1985 agricultural reform, China's quota
procurement system was replaced by a contractual procurement system,
with the Government setting contract prices annually In light of market
conditions. The effect of the new system has been to bring contract
prices more closely in line with market prices and to allow farmers
somewhat greater autonomy in ostablishing cropping patterns. However,
the contractual procurement system has not been implemented ovenly
across commodities or regions; farmers across the country are no longer
obliged to meet procurement quotas for seat, for example, but are still
required to meet de facto quotas for wheat and rice in China' key grain
commodity bases. In Xinjiang, project farmers now face prices which are
at or near market and world prices for all major inputs and outputs.
The only exceptions to this rule are contract prices for live animals
(sheep, cattle, and pigs) which appear to be somewhat below
corresponding world prices, and processed foods such as vegetable oil,
meat products, and hides which are somewhat above. Project farmers also
enjoy more freedom in selecting their cropping pattern than they did in
the recent past, and it is expected that they will increasingly take
advantage of this freedom in the years ahead by responding to local and
international market incentives.
5.10      In view of the Government's coimitment to maintaining
agricultural production incentives during the ongoing reforms of the
marketing system, the financial analysis bas been conducted using 1986
average prices. Futute price trends for Individual commodities remain
uncertain, but it is unlikely that producer prices for basic cowmodities
will suffer sharp declines. For the economic analysis (para. 6.05),
farm input and output values are based upon Bank Group commodity price
forecasts for 1995, adjusted for international and domestic transport
costs and expressed in 1986 constant prices. Conversion factors are
used to derive economic prices for items which do not enter in
international trade.



- 37 -
VI. BINEFITS. JUSTITFCATION. AND RISKS
Production and Benofits
6.01     Annual incremental crop production on the project's irrigated
area of 32,300 ha would include 21,300 tons of wheat, other grains, and
oilseeds, 13,800 tons of cotton and cottonseed, 24,000 tons of grapes,
78,000 tons of foed grain and fodder (expressed in hay equivalent), and
additional quantities of vegetables, melons, fruit and timber. The
project would also improve production on 44,700 ha of pasture, introduce
new livestock breeds, and construct 180,000 sq m of animal sheds. in
car'bination with the inemental production of feed grains, fodder, and
crop residues on project irrigated lands, increased production of
pasture would be sufficient to meet the feed requirements of 156,000
sheep, 10,500 cattle, and 1,250 sows. At full development, incremental
production of cottonseed, grpes, live animals, and wool would supply
45%, 100%, 50%, and 25% of the raw material requirements of the
project's agro-processing industries. Additional quantities of raw
materials would be purchased from nearby state farms and collectives in
order to meet agro-processing targets at full development of 7,700 tons
of refined cottonseed oil, stearic acid, and margarine, 3,880 tons of
raisins, 11,360 tons of fresh and preserved mutton, beef, and pork,
1,135 tons of clean wool, and wool tops and other wool products.
nulovyment and Incomes
6.02      Employment opportunities generated by the project would help
reduce existing seasonal underemployment saong the rural labor force in
and around the project areas. At full development, farming activities
on the project's irrigated areas would create an annual incremental
demand for labor of about 2.5 million work days, equivalent to about
15,500 full-time jobs. Most of the new farming jobs would be created in
the Bole and Hami project areas.  The project would also create the
equivalent of an additional 5,100 and 3,360 full-time jobs in animal
husbandry and agro-processing respectively. With the exception of some
of the highly skilled labor, these new positions would be filled
locally.
6.03     The project would improve living standards and income levels
for a total of about 24,000 workers and their families. The average
farm family of five in the Bole project area, for example, would plant
3.5 ba of irrigated land to wheat and other cereals (26%), cotton (220),
feed grain and fodder (36%), and other crops (16%). Annual production
of feed grain, fodder, and crop residues would be used In the production
of 133,000 sheep, 7,600 cattle, 17,700 pigs for sale as live animals,
810 tons of wool, and 5,500 tons of milk. Excluding income from other
sources and using financial prices for inputs and outputs, the annual
per capita income for such a farm family would be about Y750. It is
stimated that specialized households In the Hami/Turpan project area
would receive net incomes of about Y850 per capita from grape
production. Full time employees engaged In snimal husbandry or agro-
processing would receive Y900 to Y1100 annually in salaries plus
bonuses. Highly skilled labor and managerial staff would receive about
11450 annually. These estimated per cepita incomes are equivalent to



* 38 -
or slightly exceed income levels for other farm and agroprocessing
workers in rural Xinjiang.
Prolect Charges
6.04      The cost recovery index for the project would be about 90%.
Contributions from the XAITC, representing direct and immediate cost
recovery, would amount to Y85 million, or 20% of project costs. About
Y252 million would be extended as medium to long term loans to
individual state farms for irrigation, pasture improvement, and
livestock development. These loans would be fully recovered on terms
equivalent to the blended cost of these funds. About Y88 million
would be provided to branch company enterprises for agro-processing.
Up to 50% of this could be treated as equity and the balance would be
fully recovered at an interest rate in line with prevailing rates
applied by ABC to comparable loans. Individual state farms -would
recover their loan repayment costs from project households and agro-
processing enterprises through a variety of charges in accordance with
terms specified in long term production contracts (paras. 4.07 and
4.10). Operation and maintenance costs would be fully recovered
through user fees, agricultural taxes, and labor contributions.
Economic Analysis
6.05      An economic analysis was undertaken for the project as a
whole, for each of the project areas, and for each of two
subactivities (crop production and agro-processing). The total
investment cost used in the economic analysis includes physical
contingencies but excludes price contingencies It also excludes
expenditures for farm housing, amounting to US$5.5 million, for which
the unquantified social benefits would at least equal costs. Project
costs and benefits were expressed in terms of economic values
converted to local currency at the official exchange rate of Y3.70 -
US$1.00. The economic wage rate is estimated as Y2.75 per day,
equivalent to the average wage in collective agriculture of about
Y2.0, multiplied by the consumption conversion factor. Since there is
a general surplus of unemployed and underemployed labor in the
Xinjiang state farm system, and little need to draw on labor from
outside this system for project construction or farming, the
opportunity cost of project labor may in fact be lower than this
figure.
6.06      Using these assumptions and discounting costs and benefits
over 30 years, the project's overall economic rate of return (ERR) is
estimated to be about 18%, and ranges from 13% for the Zhaosu project
area to 23% for the Bole project area. The ERRs for investment in
crojping and agro-processing are 29% and 15% respectively. At a
disoount rate of 12%, which is considered to approximate the
opportunity cost of capital in China, the net present value of the
project is Y190 million (US$51 million).   The ERRs were tested for
sensitivity to variations in itvestment cost, the economic value of
labor, projected prices and yields, a one year lag in the onset of
project benefits, and a combination of a 10% increase in investment
cost and a 10% reduction in yields (summarized in Table 6.1). The
sensitivity analysis shows that the project's overall economic



v 39 -
viability would remain intact with likely levels of change in any
single variable or combination of vaiables. Switching values
(value of the vatiable tested at which the NPV of the project,
with benefits and costs discounted at 128, is reduced to zero)
were calculated (Annex 3). These indicate that returns to agro-
processing projects are moderately sensitive to declines in
projected product prices. This is not unusual for agro-
processing ventures; moreover, in market economies, changes in
prices of processed products normally induce offsetting changes
in raw material prices. However, this moderate sensitivity in
combination with low preliminary estimates of ERRs for some of
the proposed agro-processing components argues for conducting
more detailed economic feasibility studies before committing
funds to these investments (para. 3.12).
Table 6.1: SUMMARY OF RATE OF RETURN AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
........... ................................. _.. ...__... ._....._ __._._
Project Area
Bole/                   Hami/
Variation              Project  Kuitun  Zhaosu  Emin  Turpan
.. .. .. . .. .. . ... .... . . . . . .. . . . ..... ...  . . .
-  -  -   EtRRin 8   -  -  --
Base Case
Total                   18       23       13      14      18
Investment costs
up 10%                   17       21       12      12      16
Economic value of
labor
-up 358\a/             17       22       12     13      17
Prices down 10%           14       19        9      11      14
Yields down 10%           14       19        9       9      14
One year lag in
project benefits         16       20       12      12      16
Combination 10% cost
overrun and 10%
decrease in yields       13       17        8       8      13
Net Present Value
(Y million)             190      152       15      4      25
.   E .. ... ....... .................... . p...ero a.
\a/ Economic value of labor at Y3.75 per work day.



- 40 -
Risks
6.07    The project faces no si*gif eant toenical, marketing or
organizational risks. The irrigated crop and pasture improveont
program would apply methods locally tried and proven to sites
selected for their productive potential, including, especially, the
availability of water resources. Local farmrs have considerable
experience with the crops to be grown and livestock raising is part of
a long tradition in Xinjiang. Noreover, there exists in the region a
well-developed structure of research, extension and training which has
been notably effective in the past in introducing new technologies to
farmers. The agro-processing technology to be introduced by the
project is of standard design and has been in regular operation in
other parts of the world. To ensure effective transfer of this
technology, the project would provide an program of local and
overseas training in addition to training provided by equipment
suppliers. The products to be produced by the project bave large and
rapidly growing markets. Given XAITC's long experience in managing
irrigation and land development programs and the fact that project
offices at each level are already in place, no problems are expected
In project implementation.



- 41 -
VIi. AGRBBKINTS REACHED AND RECONHENDATION
7.01     At negotiations assurances were obtained from the
Government that:
(a) detailed studies of the financial and economic feasibility of
proposed agro-processing plants would be carried out by XAITC and
submitted to IDA for review and appronal before bid invitation (p2ra.
3.12);
(b) the training component would be carried out in accordance
with a schedule acceptable to IDA to be submitted for review by June
30, 1987 (para. 3.19);
(c) the XAITC would maintain consolidated project accounts
for auditing annually by the State Audit Agency and that the
audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months of
the close of each financial year (para. 3.33);
(d) a report containing a detailed description of waste disposal
measures for each agro-processing plant would be submitted to IDA for
review and approval before bid invitation (para. 3.34);
(e) the XFINO, the branch company POs, and the state farm and
enterprise PUs would be maintained during the project implementation
period with a staff, functions, and responsibil.ties acceptable to IDA
(para. 4.06);
(f) proceeds of the Credit provided to agro-processing
enterprises would be provided on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA (para. 4.10); and
(g) proceeds of the Credit provided to state farms for land
development would be fully recovered through XAITC's normal contractual
arrangements on terms equivalent to the blended cost of all funds
provided for this purpose (para. 4.10).
7.02     An understanding was reached with the Government at
negotiations on the form and content of the feasibility studies for
the agro-processing plants and that an economic rate of return of at
least 12% would be a criterion of acceptance (para. 3.12).
7.03     State Council approval of the Development Credit
Agreement would be a condition of offectiveness of the Credit.
7.04     SubJect to the above conditions,  the proposed project
would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 57.3
million  (US$70 million equivalent) on standard IDA  terms.   The
Borrower would be the People's Republic of China.



~~ kRImaUMAL            LOOM~ FRO3Ec
oect Area Statistics
tle            Zhaosu              min              U fLi/ m
(State fans      (StAte fame    (State fa=  #161,   (State Fwa:             Tta
#81, 82, 83      #78 & 77)       165, 166, 167)       Ped Star #1-3
84, 86, 88, 90)                                         }ga  Tiara,  cdaNt,
N=suy, #221)
P     4a1atian ('000)            44.5             17.9             24.0                  32.8            119.2
q1bta1fauiLies               9.9              3.9              5.7                   7.8             27.3
03ltiwXted area ('000 ha)        19.9             19.3             49.4                   8.5             97.1
CmRped area ('000 ha)            19.1             19.3             46.5                  7.1              96.3
Grains (mainily tmat)        9.6             10.5             28.5                   5.1
o=Votbr grains               1.7              0.3              1.3                  0.7
cxittma                       5.0             0.0              0.0                  0.5
Oil sed                      2.0              8.5             14.7                  0.6
Alfalfa, other feed c        0.8              0.0              2.0                   0.2
RAirfei2pmrtially
irgated ('000ha)                                18.4             48.4                                   64.8
Irrigated ('000 ha)              19.9              1.0              3.0                  8.5              32*4
Gramlard area ('000 ha)          53.0             75.0            143.7                                  271.7
LAvestock (muber)
shoep/goatbs                71.0             74.0            165.0                                  310.0
Pits                         9.0              0.3              0.6                                    9.9
Cattle                       6.1              9.5             21.0                                   36.6
cr z
4-3I X
0IP



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
coi
XINJIANG  AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
0.16011
Lucatios                an     Fe      No      i       PAy      Am      hl      0In       p     it      Nw       Ot I    o utd
T_pature (C)
Vial.,            -10.00   -7.00    2.60   12.10   16."0   20.50   22.60   21.60   16."0    9.40      .9    4.I0
Ids                -11.30  -I.     -1.30    9.0   16.80   21.30   23.1   21.40   13.60    6.7   -2.30  -12.06
Kituit             -16.60  -13.00    -.90   11.50   1L."0   24.20   2620   24.40   13.20    6.60   -1.*0  -11.70
bin               -14.40  -12.50   -3.00    3.60   15.60   20.30   22.30   20.90   15.00    6.70   -2.60  -10.60
Hee               -12.20   -5.80    4.50   1320   20.20   25.20   27.20   25.10   19.10    9.90    -.60   -9.00
Rainefll bed)
lining             17.00   17.00   25.20   27.10   27.80   27.10   23.60   14.10   12.70   19.0   24.40   20.80        257.5
late                4.40    3.90   13.20   19.30   2.40   32.90   26.40   18.50   11.70   11.20    7.20    4.60       10.1
uito                5.0    6.00   12.20   20.90   22.30   20.40   10.50   14.40   12.30   10.00    1.10    7.50         15s.$
Esin               14.50   15.40   22.50   31.60   32.60   22.50   24.20   12.0   16.90   26.00   31.40   19.0         21.2
Nod                 1.70    1.10    1.00    2.60    2.80    6.40    5.90    5.00    3.00    2.10    1.60    1.60        34.1
Evfaptil  (m)
iming              131.00   26.0   77.20  190.10  221.70  234.00  259.10  243.1V  182.90  110.60   0.20   13.0        1613.4
b3le                7.20   15.30   52.30  185.30  224.80  262.50.. 20.50  2530   172.80   84.80   24.00    6.60        1569.4
KIitun              7.30   14.30   54.60  183.O   313.30  362.80  408.60  351.80  239.20  115.60   31.60    1.60      2109.9
bin                 13L10   20.60   54.10  173.20  264.00  295.50  311.20  311.0   212.60  106.60   29.40    12.I0    17.6
(Ibii              23.70    6.20  179.20  332.70  445.20  471.40  502.10  45."0  31390  134.10   70.50   26.50        3060.4
Sknsine Hwrs (brs.)
Timing             156.60  166.60  204.80  243.20  290.40  29.30  322.30  314.20  270.60  226.90  167.70  137.90      302.6
Id1                165.60  175.90  202.00  254."   305.80  306.0  325.30  318.50  280.50  220.00  138.00  122.10      2315.7
Kuitun             156.60  169.10  200.90  250.10  307.40  313.60  331.90  319.30  281.60  231.70  147.70  109.23     2821.5
EBi                156.60  180.30  219.10  148.90  29.60  313.20  333.40  330.60  267.00  203.20  149.00  135.50      21.3
Hed               212.50  227.40  21.30  259.0  333."   337.40  335.90  332.20  306.0   232.90  224.60  201.10          60.3



-44-
ZuI&                         ANNEX 2
Table 1
XIlIJlANa   1     1     IPROJECT
bt SU
Component                     1ocal Poreip Total       local Foreign   Total F.E.
,,,.60000a a()  ........  .....- (SS  ) -.---      t
IRRIGATION
Irrigated Crops            69.1    56.5   125.6    18.7    15.3    33.9  45
Irrigated P"atur             3.4     2.8     6.3     0.9     0.8      1.7  45
Electrification              3.6     3.0     6.6     1.0     0.8      1.8  45
sub-total              76.1    62.3   138.4    20.6    16.8    37.4  45
PASTURE DPOUN
Improved Grasland            1.2     1.0     2.3     0.3     0.3      0.6  45
Grassland Fencing            3.1     2.6     5.7     0.9      0.7     1.5  45
Sub-total               4.4      3.6     6.0     1.2     1.0      2.2  45
LIVESTOCK1 DEVELOST
Livestock                    3.2     2.6     5.9     0.9     0.7      1.6  45
Anlma1 sheds, pens, etc.   10.0      6.2    16.2     2.7      2.2     4.9  45
sub-total              13.2    10.8    24.0      3.6     2.9      6.5  45
AGROPROCESSING
Slaughterhouses              3.3     9.9    13.2     0.9      2.7     3.6  75
Wool Processing Plants      14.3    42.9    57.2     3.9    11.6    15.4  75
Cottonsed .011 Plants        6.0    18.1    24.2     1.6      4.9     6.5  75
Grape Processing             1.2     3.5     4.7     0.3      0.9     1.3  75
Sub-total              24.8    74.4    99.2      6.7    20.1    26.8  75
MACHINERY AND EQ(UIVKUT
Construction                 0.0     9.3     9.3     0.0      2.5     2.5 100
Agricultural                 0.0    39.0    39.0     0.0    10.6    10.6 100
Transportation               0.0    10.2    10.2     0.0      2.8     2.8 100
Fuel depot and workshop      0.0     3.0     3.0     0.0     0.8      0.8 100
Office and laboratory        0.0     1.6     1.6     0.0      0.5     0.5 100
Sub-total               0.0    63.4    63.4      0.0    17.1    17.1 100
BUILDINGS
HoL ing and services        17.0     5.7    22.7     4.6      1.5     6.1  25
Stores and garages           9.4     3.1    12.5     2.5     0.8      3.4  25
Sios for all8g              0.6     0.2     0.9     0.2     0.1      0.2  25
Sub-total              27.1      9.0    36.1     7.3     2.4      9.8  25
TRAINING                         2.6     3.1     5.7     0.7      0.8     1.5  55
BASE COST                      146.2   226.7   374.9    40.1    61.3   101.3  60
PHYSICAL CONTiNOUCIRS           13.2    20.2    33.3     3.3      5.7     9.0
EXPECTED PRICE INCREASE         23.9    36.6    60.5     1.6      3.0     4.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST             165.3   283.4   466.7    45.0    70.0   115.0  61



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Table2
X WNIANG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECW
Expenditure Schedule
Component                        1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992  Total
* .   *.- **     (US$ million) --..-----. …--
IRRIGATION
Irrigated Crops               4.8   10.5    9.2    5.1    3.1    1.4   33.9
Irrigated Pasture             0.3    0.5    0.5    0.3    0.1    0.0    1.7
Electrification               0.3    0.6    0.5    0.3    0.1    0.0    1.8
PASTURE IMIROVEYMET
Improved Grassland            0.1    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.6
Grassland Fencing             0.2    0.5    0.4    0.3    0.2    0.0    1.5
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
Livestock                     0.0    1.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.6
Animal sheds, pens, etc.      2.9    2.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    4.9
AGROPROCESSING
Slaughterhouses               0.3    0.7    1.7    0.9    0.0    0.0    3.6
Wool Processing Plants        1.5    4.6    4.3    2.8    2.2    0.0   15.4
Cottonseed Oil Plants         0.5    2.5    2.0    1.3    0.3    0.0    6.5
Crape Processing              0.1    0.7    0.3    0.2    0.0    0.0    1.3
MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT
Construction                  0.4    1.3    0.6    0.2    0.0    0.0    2.5
Agricultural                  1.7    6.3    1.7    0.8    0.0    0.0   10.6
Transportation                0.4    1.4    0.7    0.2    0.0    0.0    0.8
Fuel depot and workshop       0.1    0.4    0.2    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.8
Office and laboratory         0.1    0.3    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.5
BUILDINGS
Housing and services          0.7    1.6    1.7    1.4    0.7    0.1    6.1
Stores and garages            0.4    0.9    1.8    0.3    0.0    0.0    3.4
Silos for silage              0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.2
TRAINING                          0.5    0.4    0.4    0.2    0.0    0.0    1.5
BASE COST                     15.4   37.0   26.1   14.5    6.7    1.6  101.3
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES         1.4    2.7    2.4    1.5    0.7    0.2    9.0
EXPECTED PRICE INCREASES       0.3    1.4    1.3    0.9    0.6    0.2    4.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST            17.1   41.1   29.8   17.0    8.0    2.0   115.0



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
CHINA
XINJIANG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Expected Price Increases
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992   Total
Base Cost (Y million)      56.9   137.0   96.5   53.7    24.8        5.8   374.9
Phys2cal contingency.       5.3    10.0      9.0     5.7     2.7     0.7    33.3
Annual escalation rate       6.5%    6.5%    6.5%    6.5%    4.5%    4.5%
Price contingency multip   0.03    0.10    0.17    0.25    0.32    0.37
Expected price increase     2.0    14.6    18.1    14.7      8.7     2.4    60.5
Total cost (Y m)       64.3   161.7   123.6    74.1    36.1      8.9   468.7
base Cost (US$ million)    15.4   37.0   26.1   14.5         6.7     1.6   101.3
Physical contingency        1.4      2.7     2.4     1.5     0.7     0.2     9.0
Annual escalation rate       3.0%    1.0%    1.0%    1.0%    3.5%    3.5%
Price contingency multip   0.02    0.04    0.05    0.06    0.08    0.12
Expected price increase     0.3      1.4     1.3     0.9     0.6     0.2     4.6
Total cost (US$ m)     17.1    41.1    29.8    17.0      8.0     2.0   115.0



- 47 -
i               ~~~~~ANNEX 2     
Table 4
CHINA
XINJIANG A RICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
..........* *.. ........ .................... .........     -...
IDA              Disbursement                 Bank Group
Fiscal Year Semestral Cumulative Cumulative Disbursement Profile/_a
or semester  -- (US$ million) --    (%)      Year/Semester (0)
*....................................... ..       .†
1988                                         Year 1
1st          0.8       0.8        1          1st         0
2nd          3.2       4.0        5          2nd         5
1989                                         Year 2
lst          7.0      11.0      16           1st        16
2nd         10.0      21.0       30          2nd        29
1990                                         Year 3
lst         10.0      31.0      44           1st        44
2nd         13.0     44.0       63           2nd        61
1991                                         Year 4
lst         12.0      56.0      80           1st
2nd         11.0      67.0      96           2nd
1992
1st          2.0     69.0       98         Year 5
2nd          1.0      70.0     100           1st
2nd
........…........….. ...........................-...................
/_a Disbursement profile for China - specific investment loans
(Lending started in FY81 and disbursements for agriculture
projects have covered three years only thus far.)
Completion date: December 31, 1991
Closing date:     December 31, 1992



5 ~ ~~~~ g
s~~u         sir         5111 *11.    uruuuIU
……-_s _ _ _ _* _ _ _ _ _ _ ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 4   - C……
|~~I   III               .31                   1 8 
t1    * iii In o      . e      e      It    I         j II
PP~~~ .                                          |r 1  5 u
*~ ~    ~ ~ I                   31               ii '        jIIigi
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ II
0 ~~~~~5~  £                              - 
o * k1~~~~~~I
i    Ui   S'|l   .5 0'2g   5is   ';S'$s                 ii
a                 -t4              , a --   n Caaa_       …  a .ain_ -___
- 98 ,;a



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dr"oev aq  rtollb  am    "m aiv  ses" A  
CI4                                                                                                            *u3-b~.a             PO pe bpA I* ftue.sai 446q SPW1100.w
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a,i                                                                                             w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sin msrnWsVIM   ,  Aw~u
*S)iOM WOW IS ^d OA1 _M A *        J
lose"    ja J um#iwSiw pm 'bts4amn 'bfuso Pon  es  I A
H ~    ~        ~        ~_                  _                                   _ _ _ _ _* __ _                                                             -
am                                                                                              I elro                |3_M30MIAM I _  i-
I   '5 SI U&SI S                                                                  I 1d'                    I 9i                    1    I      I Ut        WSM
s Im'I                                                   IU'                      Ii m mIss'                                       I   I
am's   am               I~~s                     ass                     Is,'. aAs                                       saam
O       I                         a                      a I                                               I 1at     1       an   I  aft         __
a em'.  a s                      I _sr                   I m                      Iv                       I Iu                    I _             .w"  I    $0I00_
I A     I                        a            _S                      _O                                   a           I                a"t_      -
Isp     I _                                                le ft                            e        p    I         us _             s_I_
*_'  I_                         3m's  ss    _m  i                                am        e              Ishw   em.  em-_*___
I       I                        S                       I                        I                        I                        a                            -
a       I_                                                a                                                 mm                        In I              Om I   a  
am'  I' 111                                                                                                am                      a   I
am    a                                                                                                                               in  a'  I               eI
15s   a                          a'                       1                        a                        4  * 1111%                                   u u
I sof                                     |t              I                                                                        |   I                _ "
a 4    am       aamaa 
a       awl   Ia%                                                               W IGA a  a                 am                                             SIaISI
*10    aft a                                                                                               1                       I a  a_a
am'  a" e'                       3 ms           _           ms                    a Sis                    I em'          _             I         a-*  u  ^ _
aso   o                                                                                                                             sommsasmasW"-s
mets  a                                                                                                   Iau'sa  a  an *    a                  0     n  eo
asv     a                       iv.a                                                                      la"                     asann IaP                 v
a                                                          o n                    a I  ,     I             I                       ao_,Ow    I PO I
am'    Isv         ms            I                       I                        I                        ISv      Ive      em a
a~~~      ~~                       ~~~~~~~ a  all aF  la                             a|                       a  a*1*_  _
sum   a            a                       isv.~~&=W   ABomu        aswm 's                 a                        aa n
a       a                        a                       a                        al*                                             XIg  SlB  *   a t  
am's.  as       as                      as                       las's                   lay4                      a   a_t
ams         aa                                                 ms                      m'                     ai
us'    Ia                              Ila's                              e'      em la's          s'      em     uk



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Table 6
CHINA                           Page 1
XINJIANG AGRICULTURAL DEVEWPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimate:  Agrogrocessing Equipment
Item/Description                  Unit Quantity U. Price    Amount
- -(Y'O000) -.-
BOLE   Cottonseed Oil Processing Plant
Crushing and pre-tre4tment equip.   Set          1       450       450
Extracting equip.                                1     1,900     1,900
Mixed oil processsing equip.                     1       530        530
Bleaching equip.                                 1       600        600
Deodorizing equip.                               1     1,210      1,210
Refining equip.                                  1        55         55
Storage equip.                                   1        55         55
Electric control equip.               n          1       165        165
Analysing/testing equip.              n          1        50         50
Boiler/steam system                   n          1       100        100
Fuel tank                                        1       160        160
Effluent treatment equip.                        1        55         55
Spares and accessories                           1     1,200     1,200
Other equip. and tools                           1       170        170
Installation, testing & comm.         n          1     1,300     1,300
Sub-total                                                   8,000
BOLE - Slaughterhouse & Meat Packing Plant
Pig: Slaughtering equip              Set         1       120        120
Cutting equip.                             1        50        50
Sheep Slaughtering equip.                        1        40        40
Cattle: Slaughtering equip.                      1        30         30
Cutting equip.                           1       310       310
Edible oil processing equip.                     1        20         20
Meat processing equip.                           1        32         32
Casing/Sausage Equip.                            1       650        650
Bone powder processing equip.                    1        40         40
Cold storage equip.                              1       110        110
Refrigerating equip.                             1       160        160
Electric control equip.                          1        65         65
A-ir conditioner                                 1        82         82
Waste disposal equip.                            1        50         50
Spares, accessories & tools                      1       141        141
Installation, testing & comm.                    1       100        100
Sub-total                                                   2,000



- 51 -
ANNE 2
Table 6
Paite 2
CY.INA
XINJIANG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimate:  Atroprocessinu  Eauipment
Item/Description                   Unit Quantity U. Price    Amount
....,- (YV000)  ----
ZHAOSU - Slaughterhouse & Meat Packing Plant
Slaughtering equip.: Sheep           Set         1       320        320
Cattle        Set         1        350       350
Cutting table                       Each         1        50         50
Double-layer cooking pot            Each         2          8        15
Weighing machine                    Each        10          2        20
Mincing machine                     Each         1         15        15
Mixing machine                      Each         1         15        15
Chopping machine                    Each         1         15        15
Oil refining equip.                 Each         2         20        40
Casing winding machine              Each         3        10         30
Vacuum packing machine              Each         2         25        50
Fiberglass cooling column           Each         2        45         90
Refrigerating equip.                Each         1       500        500
Lifting carts,                      Each        20         16       320
Electric hoist                      Each         1        10         10
Lab. testing equip.                  Set         1        35         35
Boiler/steam system                  Set         1       150        150
Electrical control equip.            Set         1        50         50
Spares, accessories and tools        Set         1       500        500
Installation, testing & comm.                                       425
Sub-total                                                   3.000
ZHAOSU - Wool/Rabbit Hair Knitwear Plant
Wool processing equip.                               Sum          1,600
Rabbit hair yarn equip.                              Sum         10,500
Woolen cloth equip.                                  Sum         11,500
Rabbit hair knitwoer equip.                          Sum          3,000
Electric control equip.                              Sum            400
Spares, accessories & tools                          Sum            500
Installation, testing & com.                         Sum          1,000
Sub-total                                                  28.500



- 52 -
AM 2
Table 
CHA                            P^xe 3
XINJI2¢A   f AMlZ M   DI      E  OtIC
Cost Estmate: ArEopocessini    a -mtfln
Item/Description                    Unit Quantity U. Price   Amount
..... (Y 000)-
EMIN - Raw Wool Processing Plant
Raw wool separating table             unit     14
Examining table                       unit      2
Wool scouring equip.                  unit      1
Mixing machine                        unit      1
Dust removing machine                 unit      1
Combing machine                       unit      1
Gill box (lst,2nd,3rd 4  final)       set       1
Carding machine                       unit      8
Gill box with cylinder                unit      1
Packing machine: wool ball            unit      1
:loose type           unit       3
Grease recovery equip.                unit      1
Diesel generating set                 unit      1
Boiler/steam system                   set       1
Electric control equip.               set       1
Spares, accessories & tools           set       1
Installation, testing & comm.
Sub-total                                           5.000
HAMI/TURPAN - Raisin Drying/Packing Plant
Raisin drying/packing equip.       set       1     2,600       2,600
Boiler/steam system                st        1       100-a       100
Electric control equip.            net       1        25          25
Weighing machine                   unit      1        10          10
Quality testing equip.             set       1        30          30
Spares, accessories & tools        st        1        85          85
Installation, testing & co=.                                     150
Sub-total                                           3 *000
,I



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Table 6
Page 4
CHINA
XINJIANG WCUM  DEVEWLPMENT RPRW
Cost Estimate: Aaroirocessina EouiLment
Item/Description                   Unit Quantity  U. Price    Amount
'.. '  ('OOO) -....
KUITUN - Cottonseed Oil Refining Plant
Bleaching *quip.                     Set         1        770       770
Deodorizing equip.                   Set         1      1,600     1,600
Hydrogenating equip.                 Set         1      1,120     1,120
Hydrogen production equip.           Set         1        750       750
Shortening equip.                    Set         1        870       8.0
High pressuro fatty oil
equipment                         Set         1       930        930
Fatty acid distillation equip.       Set         1        750       750
Glycerine processing equip.          Set         1        750       750
Electric control equip.              Set         1       100        100
Effluent treatment equip.            Set         1         SO        50
Spares, accessories & tools          Set         1        810       810
Installation, testing & Comm.                         1,500      1,500
Sub-total                                                   10,000
TOTAL.                                                    59,500



- 54 -
xawm AW_M. OuVm.wrnW  Pr Vape I
Cm~ bilesees.' buaidml ad VOSISI..
lIt"                  Prlse     Ut.*    burn        bin    Urnt1rsu      13001
[ye     W,.        Sir.        M,.        MO.               V,3U     Loom
I.   1U1312   UIUW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ 
*                     llr10     Zol,       t_s.qas ,dn       llt a                 a.
OmanLwsee  1AsuuP5                                  aa                                        so      eam
litt _0s ""    t                          U        1                                         10       t0         S
bALtyseuido 3wps                          a        IS                                        Is        50         so
ast_t dod WNW                             m         6                                         a         m        " *
flsees.weeisp                             7         7                                         0         a O7
blew gnfridis"1441 hp                    In         a                                It       5         50
bere *asIweei lfet3 1-I hp toe          11.J        o                                I        7         75        n
Sekuso *Utosmt (for S0O hp t_t.SSe?  13,5          I                                                            O 7  In  of
SaivI e_ltesmt Ifte 30410 hp tmreWl *,              0                                1        73                  5
ebi-lete                                                                              7.4K      ,3
U. P5UW
--idd s.mte  140430 bi                  14.        3?                     t                   u       4,7110.   1.13I
W_e   tramp 104  ti 1h                            H          11,
...i  *rV 53                              ROp a0   47          aa                             a       1.S0 C
kenelibe Plt  ftet 14-490 ip tonew       MA2       3                      7                   54        m        O0
s"esbLo aw sftrU 90410 tp StPf          1. "of      1         1                     4        1         so       n0
Uemsws*I pies fee U.4S to twv              4       II                                         II         34       to
taw3  Putt45e pies. Uc a I  rs TM                  I1                                         1          as        7
DO*   ulmt                               13.0                              4                  is        sn        as
v      pum                                 5        3                                         3          40       11
01Wobt_  0- m                              4                                         4         4         Is        4
*ttslqVtuIq .tSbin                         4        3                                4        is         43 
Nw   mL dIre                               a       a                                          0          aU      1I
ftdosdsohpP                                                     7                   7        go$       70
PW1Of im boeew     s                    30,5       IS                                         as        on         O
lns eberm  4' a                                    Is                                4   e 0            Igo       St
or" pme                                                                                       I   n      S        34
4.1,4  ln      at                                                                                 2      7 4      30
bembjee  ehti,eS/sAfSUee37                                                                     a        50        so
w_-t,erw  outt_i"W06                                                                           It        p        le "
b_e                                      UI        30                                         0         3 0        3
St"    rtw to it I to "Mm                       Is                                         is      lee         m
LMt doftf d _L W PA a)                                                                      * a
Posom SW drttf                                                                               a0 a0 a 
rititevr epptifoe   (UO1M top *rer)        3                                                  14       113       s0
Petla       r eppitees   l lo semiw)       4       34                                        34         la        37



In~~~~~W
Ii}      *       a                     o                a  a*
a.            .a 2                                       
In  W ] I }  g 0 a a a 5 X 1 s a j X i   |  1 it ! XJ i X i X X X i 0 ii 1Xi R k *  I 0 W-W-jW
In~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
U  3  pUm1*~*19.m3g~          momeeUege   ~                 g          .
6~~~~~~            *                                            ' n "   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
Ji  (I                            A                 1   1~~~Ti           IS 
I   1ii            0P                 a      I r



-56-
MOTNAPOWAM veamn NoAamis
_I_ 110|                                                        |2 se
lut*-w1_e 14 _Ma a                                    4         0O          S    4       a"   e
Uss4i an00                                                                             W      4
Ww_ wit wo    "                                                                        l
%St two                                                                  0      U looks
40110"m       " mIN ft  alike
ftwm     t _ sso ,t cavemm" 
PWU_" .ou  S                                 *        *1  I                      1       34      U
__ dlll, W _ Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o O   
tesibsilk     I sos tW                       1                                   1        1 s
wi*un.*W o a*                        a       a                                           off
SitdsBe                                      S                                 o n        U 5
bPe't M i ls  fmtcs too* )0                                                             ,I
OPIUMo                               8       3                                            4       so
Ol w___w             tIs                                                                  IS"
wilois WP  fto                                     ._m                                          . _    _#
P.Ilow ar"mb m o4                                                        3       *w DI"  a
f--    a"9  q". _1    1s l os      t                                                     Ws      s
ulfd1" u14 " Odo _# |W              - - too   m                                        I'm       as
_asu7t                                                                   RAN       Sp
*10111. toe noo a IV *               7 '                                                 O       10
Ahd In wepa                                                                            4074    1,0
Add VS d*oe troeop  qlmm                                                               174    l50
OSSlo                                                                   0.4       5
-                                                   40.545  10.2- 0  p0
f. um#s mblOIus tn_   qroPow _odes



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
Table 8
DU.Im ICELtAE DEVEWPXUT ___CT
Cost Estit: OffICe s4 Loratory   uipmnt
Item/Dscription              Unit  Quantity  U. Price       mount
----(US'OOO) -_,
OFFCE EQUIPENT
micro-computer with SIx
satellite toermls \&a          Unit         1        60         60.0
Personal computer 640K         Unit        20         5        100.0
copying machine                unit         6         5         30.0
Camaera c/v accessories        Unit         8         0.7        5.6
Silde projector c/v access.     Set         6         0.2        1.2
Video Camera Recorder
c/v accessories              Set         1        10         10.0
Typewriter (English)           Unit         26        0.3        7.8
Portable calculators           Urit        60         0.05       3.0
Nisc. small equipment                                            2.4
Sub- total                                                220.0
LABORATORY    IMET
HMi Craps Development           set         1          50       50.0
Center \b
TOTAL                                                               270.0
\a: For XAITC's main office at Urumuqi
\b: List of equipment to be fiaalized after study tour.



wigii . ae b"osium a  s. s.IWorAd S.olaWS 44001006 *
saedm  WA          £q PsPJ*e0*d 0Q "    W     X 1OsVPIPP  e
gm      1400                                                                        lf*^
aftildo~~ ~ ~ ~      ~ *wsv 1_t ft                                                          * tnelas@
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8Aostws oftwm" af t* t"~d
ow5ts PM e
Jttl~~~" 0$   on 0"                              an                                $         *
sue"  q pssm-As        su       Oggm 
e.'ueo   a~~~ w.e~~s    as                                               insw_ w* us muea*
"U$P   It   ow                   on  on  Mi  an                             -bw
ovolson IUIM  OS  A lV_: 4l1 0      010   on         11          01 011  co                                                 es*
6001100 "OIANV P"M       IA                           on                            J O         Sq       U3d 0    e
61m i g gm   ie m  *a
UII$33 £s~~bsbeA4ueio"Meog eg"a s      Ip             p    eg           gg                    e8"   [A     I    eSA
a~~~~~~~~~~~w " 
stift"O PI                9                                                                   cods '@oaS  oq
-Sti     Sb *lps%= *8qq014  es
edq     S               b qt                                         Id$6* 
*sell    09       0                        a                                    4 n  n  B t  PM ft q   *
_ot   #am| *|  0    a    9                                                  ew9 awo* PM  tOl0las   * r OS
1io WsW         U        S       I      I    t    t B                se       1dI0dSS PM  IS 1      d  I's
en  w    t                   ge*,                                                 .
S54*t *00     93       93S                 S    S                          153Sp.  5Sq"1p
IIUil"  I10101
.11.1w., ~ >*                  -.                                        *             'p 
Po Solwt =* "amU S0 a"*Is
(eu.fAJ W  qW        1311  3331333     3356s                                         _1   w
.uest-ei   --. .... .6n6  . 6                                                 I's
lo". ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~sf &" _'IV _ _
0100   on       Wa  m M
pSeidid    16101   ""I  "P0S1004 £1q qswM.Aq je bOa
6 *Tq'x
XgKv



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
amv
x-w  osLThu  0riaw ~wa=
Psmg"o Prio" tsr ljor Froducts VWd lap"1   W
what    Skoes    coft  Cetos vegetebte  Blt    15             troot bitlsz  81ct        U1        TV
W    NO    W  t1foAW  of Att   W    \W    \tt   V/ m#W    U/   \W
Treds, lusm                                       X        X        X       X        X        X        N       X        N        N        N
18Piless      "1W                        i
b~oon price to)                         19                       17815                                                         109      18e
Tsrw 1rsl1 to)               pt *48a                                                                          48                4        48
0V or- 36 voipeqoi  18174                       816      194    Ion        87      on8    1we    am9    118           Se48     115      176
eVP or Po  Iboqimti (3                  6e      on       34       1m187    SW              Gm8      mm3        we7   6141      57       an
tort ow"apec T iaw                       a        7      -a0      46              4        -0       114    -618       108                9 4
If  tosot  bit fio project er\eW        a       -St      45       46       -1      -65      -0        go      *4        5        5       9
Tronoporto Truk so te -teogtp           48       48       49       49       4        9       4         5       4        1 
Price   sitt                            no0      as8             a3       1918     mg    6158  1818    5112          W   8     77  7   "1
Prcessing sijuo\tW                              0.7                                                 0.40
11ting cnot to by-prduct wetui                  40                48
bernie prles Y1)                       750      418S998    8898    1918    981             5158    5m       5ltg119    84M7    0 78  771
Pi.ni1  pLie  (l                        460     404       o      1W0       m      g          m      7000    480      4700  e 77         43
1ow Pries
pont Priee (6I                         148                       1780                                       1580               1Bt       se8
bOen Fn1ipt M                           44                                                                    4 
0V or FOB Uhergi1 It)                   194     U        1O8    1744       611    119       098    gm8       le"4     Sm       92       904
CVP oM IhsIMI  IV)                      718     IN       8       64       M9S8   4176    7804   14514   5676    8408           841      751
Po   bog   srgsinW                      3      -16       46      6        -9       4       -700    181t    -6s        889      10        aS
Tranru r b11 to proJut  rM\a#           as      -U       45 4      0      45        0       -U        a5                        95       as
truisprt  Trek etoftroeW                4        -6       48       4a       4       4        -a                 a 8     8 4a
Pir  on  it                            869      m          4      m0      me0   874        a7    16          11t     8798      se9    a77
procesing sJistovtW                             0.7                                                 0.40
1itting eost to"s by-roct we t I                                  49
t_rnie prie (73                        8S       410       94    571    9008    8749    Om           64      511      a6        so       877
fianoit spies 1T) 4l                            404      as-    M0       80    90          00S      70o      400    A0          "       4a
W    brid  1es* proje t tor 98 cad   6 in Is   ses-  wts, trW  E5, *lero Md FiW n10ol _Aumpti00 ond Nalt-Ytsrty Pevislon of
ons PorP otsF Internt Nuw'w'im,' Awnt low.
W    N. lb.t  a bt  Red Vivtor, *Wport Price tiiero  at %tl por.
\0W  ThOo sittd whiat, It brdkn, POB        k
\W/ US, No. 8 Y tt7   FOII UB Outbt port.
W# NhddlIng, OW brep.
\t/ US csto d o1l, CIF Ibtt    pojeotod using pri1s of .osbee  sit.
U US soortd tr            bots, U  uiibte lown Om met, Po port of entry.
W    Ir Zelad r   e           oo tese, utmta prie,o tthItd 10*s. Ladenl prhlt   using pries aft bert.
Xt   Ctns 0"1,1 bog      d   88m  On   t
W   Triple bpor             36 bIt prte.
W    Assuage roll trdobht oboros to proJest eros.
W     toc  rasport trw  roil to fe gt ..
W   MJssen  tre   sd  to  ited    s    d ctton Fto* gote  tint, and letttml toat lserI n meI.



Xrop AbIetSMFell SinePaWs.mAlD
as  bias  loe   Sine       O~pss  bue lflhg   Town I    Yese 3-4   Ies            T esas 3-4
ads Prles A*. Vla"  Am* vowe  Ae. Tlu* ble, Vols An, vols SAM. WlUM  #a. VOWe  #A*. ValUs be  Voes be. Vone
on"              be et                                                                                                _n a
_ b1"ttm
_Okg 4 m                              I    us  "         7 In            -   0o                U  7 O "              n   a
-jW             Bam   .                s w             a          aim    m A  w s  am       weJ w m   a4                             0
:ll   e         kg 0.1                     _S                                 -  0   a_"_m fo_n 
- _|~to  46"""^       0                                  I    r""n    m 
4 _ ow      Nat Ion  in  m   m  us   U    s U S                                         "                           'm Is  w Im  n    .  m  to an  3   a
-er.~~es'e  I           1I          3         13          a          13         a          IV         I           7         IS
eeeM    V              145~      ~ so        US                    An4                     3         3onS3
VAt" of
a -   - %a -   -   -   -   -g
~~^°  JI F ""  whlo        40          m          m 
blue                                                    we 4e
w_~~~~~YU    Vam   t  _ od    _  ef  etvt*bdee
_ll               _. _.1              _.3        _.3         1._       _01          _1 _. 3._ 1._
Wes        _    Am          _       3         U           SNUSs/s
Voe          _                   _53        _33        _31        _3         _ US
bO Voles   I   US        1331       3333       1531       3174~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- ~~                 -_ -_ -_                                    -          -_ -K                  -          - 
do~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ b  stevle   oule   rbilsat  slvsWse



at~
___ Bdcatat JuU            plt
( b8y /mlim - it2
Unt        (ZoM)            (o)              (ole)             oe)
adn    pricss    Qty   valu        Qty   value      Qty   Value      Qty   Val4V
Fa
- osm-tzat.           Ig      0.29       30     8.7      60    17.4      625   181.3   6,700 1,943.0
-hay                  kg      0.05      480    24.0    420    21.0   2,425   221.3   2,500   225.0
- shag.               Vg      0.02      100     2.0    220      4.4   8,100   162.0   9,250   185.0
- gxaai /Ia           k       0.01      550     5.5      50     0.5               0.0
-   - rqpus  ),f   kg         0.01             O0O    350        3.5              0.0
VetowHIzmzy seIvio. lb   Y                        3.0             3.0             12.0             120.0
Eqpiu,Vmt  bkarials     Y                         4.0             4.0              16.0            165.0
8&b Tot^l            Y                       47.2             53.8            492.5          2,538.0
tIabw  PIxuiin*5   * wkdays                         5                               24               15
Mf VAlVE
Itbon (liwmI4it)        hg      1.25    32.0    40.0   32.0    40.0
Duef (livwesaxiit)      hg      1.40                                       380   532.0
Por  (liVeieigt)        kg      1.70                                                      2,950 5,015.0
NowL                    kg      7.00      6.5    45.5    6.5    45.5
Slnds (mbm<tt1e)   unit    10-80                  8.5             8.5             64.0
SUB 'Ika1                                    94.0             94.0            596.0          5,015.0
47              40              104            2,477
Nbbs: Gitle aid daq WUits are equivalent o tn CM aat breeding female with atts nt offspring.
Pi wuit In Bole is eq alv   to ons  breeding ow aaed twide eadh and 1.5 yh and 1.5 ycun swsw
-tAi cB. Frcu ead pig wait 35 parkers, 1.5. yOug sos and 0.2 cull smis are
/a  ZE>pessd as hiZcay lpivnat.
lb   Mwclud"Fatf      neiafn



*1 0P688"It" AMtA
lowP1-p dn  a  (100)P  l$qle  d8*1 PW 04M  foom    16R  ftop                po w  o" IPM   ft"I VW*G
sea Po "as) 6"144"Is Po~            "Pis OR1-m  (u.wt w      "a1 W'PIUW PM #4po pi`43ft .110 PSUSP$U  W4Fd (Oi'sIWNIuS USIti &MUOW Po II"aJ   $Mc*
tl          UL          iUAn                     an          *5          EaIn        to           N           sua                                    a 
adOO        esam        am          Omn          am          aum         tam         NW           uam         sins                               MONOs
_ lur   _                                 sor a  a     es .        rO                                                                a
* Ir    -     0t   I            I         e      9"0  SIra Oi    Poo tIN    S'S         5  VI   ULP  V.    W    ea            OW. 40 on         S£
_DN  rt om   it SW is   ame irs 9-0 wt   om                              a     r     om   Ws   a"         t   000   Ws        amA
Om          un          o!          _ g          _ o    b     0           s Ow am  CORM  _ m    o am   _   o   *   eo  o*s  _  o s
_m          usN     -    G$         am           to          a           uw          in           re m_
6W          am'   _      s          me                 W       I         NW                       sitW        06                                   44510-
_} -                                                                                                                  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
auoi Wm as    n       r S as    I*80  414s  rO   1s    Vs'  WI,  va   WI   Ws   *           Vs   ma   Wu   a        Ia'   WS                        l
-it    *'u  uss             . S     *'h  o      sus  n s    oas s w-;as  *%5  *9  VOW  in    ru   SI  0*'& s    ri    o   us                    _      s.
90a0ss 010 w  '0 am    I      0    8 0 591   Vm s   V         .  Vsa  9        Vsa w0         . fromaS tl 8%VI   .0                                .
.s         e0   o  04,s  a'         la "moaa                                                      " 16"
an    so         ~~10W        a VIn  0654I'SOWI  "am                                                                      160111   %
m          Ulm 6    u   a    Wm   6       fro   at    rs  2        Wu NW USa  SaUS61  "a (o    AM"-
mISS .. V ur odes  o I                                       O     Vs                                                      m  a              ("isa*
Om   800             Om   V's~~~~US                                   am 6  "aWgamS's-
own~tX 0001  a"                                                                                                             V
es  v8 8am    "a                "amg5  -
*  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3U i _ini_w
"M  *VW  O11%  *I  *OM   1"a   O11%  'SW   611%  *"W   ""A wa'                 *'"     *1"A       60t *MM  "a   6010  '"a *SJ  5*4
- ~~~ ,5-                                                                                                         *
SMas del                s      o"                 _                      *1°8       1U0                      6165
"aS51SL   ~L i.'s a"a       am~                               )65                    isoIleaesso
sm{'sa   liUd$
tw  -        -1     uWiAG
15Eml l. I



- 63 -
AXNNEX 3
Table 5
CHINA
XINJIANG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
(Y millions, 1986 values)
Incremental net benefits with prolect\a/
Bole/                                Hami/
Year             Pro1lect       Kuitun        Zhaosu       Emin        Turpan
1987              -85.3          -43.6        -21.9       -9.6         1O.21
1988             -126.3          -57.0        -37.3      -15.3        -16.7
1989              -76.9          -26.9        -28.7       -9.6        -11.7
1990              -15.3            7.0        -13.1       -3.1         -6.1
1991               35.8           26.1          7.1        3.0         -0.4
1992               71.5           41.9         17.4        5.7          6.5
1993               85.3           48.5         19.3        6.8         10.6
1994               90.3           50.1         19.7        7.3         13.1
1995               93.9           51.5         20.1        7.5         14.7
1996               95.0           51.6.        20.3        7.6         15.4
1997              101.1           55.9         21.2        8.3         15.6
1998              103.5           58.3         21.3        8.3         15.6
1999              100.5           56.0         20.6        8.3         15.6
2000              100.5           56.0         20.6        8.3         15.6
2001               98.3           53.8         20.6        8.3         15.6
2002              104.9           59.5         21.3        8.3         15.6
2003              108.6           63.3         21.3        8.3         15.6
2004              103.7           59.2         20.6        8.3         15.6
2005              103.9           59.3         20.6        8.3         15.6
2006              100.1           55.6         20.6        8.3         15.6
2007               98.9           53.6         21.3        8.3         15.6
2008               99.5           54.3         21.3        8.3         15.6
2009               97.8           53.3         20.6        8.3         15.6
2010               98.0           53.5         20.6        8.3,        15.6
2011               97.1           52.6         20.6        8.3         15.6
2012              101.4           56.1         21.3        8.3         15.6
2013              103.5           58.2         21.3        8.3         15.6
2014              100.6           56.0         20.6        8.3         15.6
2015              100.6           56.1         20.6        8.3         15.6
2016               98.3           53.8         20.6        8.3         15.6
ERR ()-         18             23           13         14           18
\a/  Figures are net of without project net benefits.



- 64 -
aMi a
XuSxnw    _ OILUW R10=
bonMiO ftts of bAurn and  itlbieg Values by COo etn
lbitobla Values
nv teent oonoie ot ut    Yisltd
bonmmia                        e0t   Value f' Price   Pimout la
"r~act Aaewu.ot    f,vftatnS OMt    Efi   WV    Imror                Labor   .. line    hO ti
Y sittion    Totl  I  Ydtlltin        S    Y/dsy       S         I
UolsfCtuun
crops                     71.7        m    18   115.8        34     18se       48          49
AgroprecessingW           ea.6        a    1   l6.          85 .s            is          57
ames
AgrNpro   ing\lW            6.7       1    I8    14.8         17     a's        S          15
1bin
crops                      m6.         8   17      4.9        49      W        s           14
A"Wrpeoossing\W           18.5         4  W                                                N
CropO                      6.8         226         6.        157     W         49          44
Agrompoosin               41.6        11   16    16.5         49    18.0       1a          11
Tout PSO$t                   846       100 16.0   166.0         a     10.6       17          so
W    Intldas ems (Bata) eNW  otto _    o11 t(Dto  NW Sultn) prNOssing.
W    Uotudes ut  nd mol paoeeine.
\W    oes emly land delopmmt for' I   I predution
W    ?nmfio de"  ses  valil. at $mi stg  to poper a definitive
am_ysip of SW propoed nol proeeino plant at  din. Rnvr.
prstisitery  tmie  indloste Wet  prvfde  up-t-a    ata. leo g
Is e  wlop   te subouponUitwitt yield an aoospftsl rats of returne
A detaled s1tudy of tt_in stl ed amoomi. fossibi tty uid be oarned mt
prior to bid nitatifon
W       hty ineeii. to~ Sivarianths.



Im.----------                   --
- - - - - - - - - - -            
- - -- - -- - -  --t  I
g~~~~ f
ht t   t~~t ftt
-…. .Ii1



- 66 -
ANNEX 5
CHINA
XINJIANG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Prolect File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Agriculture Sector
A.1   MAAF, China:  ANricultural Yearbooks, 1984, 1985.
A.2   To the Prosperity of Our ARriculture.  State Statistical
Bureau, December, 1985.  pp. 135-138.
A.3 Xinli ang Agriculture. Beijing: Scientific Publishing
House, 1964.
A.4   Xiniiang Agricultural Geography.  Xinjiang:  People's
Publishing House, 1981.
A.5  "An Inquiry into Trends in the Development of Livestock
Production in the Yili Region", Xin1iang Geography,
Vol. 7, no. 4 (December, 1984).
A.6   "On Integrating Agriculture and Animal Husbandry in
Xinjiang", Xinliang Geography, Vol. 7, no. 4
(December, 1984).
A.7   "Questions of Land Use in the Yili Region", Xinjiang
Geography, Vol 7, no. 4 (December, 1984).
A.8   "Rational Use of Xinjiang's Grassland Resources",
Xinjiang Geography, Vol. 7, no. 4 (December, 1984).
B.   Reports and Studies Related to the Proiect
B.l   Bilbo, William.  Xinliang Area Development Project:
Groundwater and Land Development Compcnent. (August,
1986).
B.2   Bilbo, William. Xinjiang Area Development Project:
Sprinkler Irrigation Component. (August, 1986).
B.3   Cronberg, Crister.  Xinjiang Area Development Proiect:
Analysis of Agro-Processing Component. (May, 1986).
B.4  XAITC.  Feasibility Report with Annexes. (May, 1986).
B.5  XAITC. Feasibility Report:  Cottonseed Oil Processing
Plants. (March, 1986).
B.6   XAITC. Feasibility Report:  Grape Processing. (April,
1986).
B.7   XAITC.  Feasibility Report:  Slaughterhouses. (March,
1986).
B.8   XAITC.  Feasibility Report:  Wool/Rabbit Hair Processing
Plant. (February, 1986).
B.9   XAITC. Revised FeasibilitY Report Annexes. (July, 1986).
B.lQ Xinjiang  Environmental  Advisory  Center.   "Report  on
Environmental Effects (Bole)". June, 1986.



Ind -w q$ v desd 1_                                4-_m__uu
_ | , r~~~~~~~~~~~ - -~~~~~ * gd - _s
some*1                                                      mo _           I                       I   PM        I I
W1  I 9                                          som"14" Iwal" -=14-    saP
I   W~~ASU3   ~   I   MI"M44"o  I
nod"________a ___                                            __   __   __                      op n IuIIinduismf4    " .qI4
l            I  i                            I
__* I                                                                                                                   I --  I    _
I~~~~                                                                           _      I
I-,           mmd..                    mtq t                                        I                                     4_ ttol  "   _ I4
O M ANIuOj                                                        I- -          _1mI4                              I
I l  .014=1 PM some"s                                             ds0 PM 0-'-   I                               nou I-mw _I
1                                   flumE                                           I               -d      I                    I I
l I                                                          I "'p PM Is"*
| , _W_______                                                          1m    1-4       SIP   nd 11flSdR9-1    SSmIE mI1 1in  I
I 15W1S158mI   ~   ~            .-P _   ,u,,  0
|~~~~~ ~ ~ -Sd  _mSd                          I                             II
vo~1^                                                                                    S  I                       I I        IIq_tl 1 _ _
I   _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _    IOAI                        SRP""      I                   I
a  .              I    -5UsP "S m- I                              ml' I       I
I                             I    -Us_ Ld-1I   3j   Im msem'.                                               I
a                                                                                   m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fs00    M84#  flSRu um so"
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~_    I  I                                                      m_s  1 _-UW~ I
OMUG I  I-_                         1                    1
I~~~~~~~~~~P --- -M I                  I Q_    t   I Io"06f IW00_t6l_                 I      I -          I       0 tOM  I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i J  l*4 losm Iswm%t
~_I_
I
PaR 4sD_
o
l
=oaroua ii do aA    mfLrflflf  OMVIrNIX



- 68 -
CHART 2
CHINA
XINJIANG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ors;nization for Project Implementation
Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
Husbandry and Fisheries (NAAF)
Bureau of State Farms
For Investment Management
_   IOfieo (P2SO)      
[Xinjiang Regional_
1Govermcent
Coordinating Committee
Project Office
Enterprise
| Project Unit 
State Farm
. _ ~~Project Unit
Brigade
Family Farm/Household



- 69 -
CHART3
CHINA
XINJIAG AGRICULTURAL DVELPINT PROJWECT
Channels for Use and Recovery of IDA Credit
IDA/a
I    Standard Terms
NOF
current: 4% annual interest,
20 years with 5 years' grace
KAF
BSF
XAITC                     Provincial
PCBC /b
Branch                     County
Companies                   PCBC
Enterpris/
State Farms                      I
/a Most IDA funds disbursed directly to vendors under ICB--
debited against 5SF account in People's Bank of China. Some
funds used by XAITC to cover training costs. Remaining proceeds
used to cover a percentage of the costs of earthworks and small,
simple pieces of equipment/machinery of local manufacture.
/b ------- ZIBC - agent for disbursing/recovering IDA proceeds
/c Civil works for project agro-processing enterprises would be
covered by local contributions generated by enterprise earnings. For
IDA fuids provided by XAITC to agro-processing enterprises under the
project, up to 50% could be treated as equity investment by XAITC (or
its branches) in the enterprise, while the remainder would be passed
on as a loan at an Interest rate in line with prevailing rates applied
by ABC to comparable loans.



0~~
NOTES



S
*~ ~ ~~A SU  CTION



5 MONGOLIA - 
of             8..Rap'9.  
XINJIANGHEtl^G                                                               8i.  
U.S.S.R.                             --°
Y              >        .-.00                                                   -...
eA --; ^.r.-                         <   t t~~~~~2
/~~~~~~V              c      -r t   ;
~~~~~~~~~\fwvvki'_'S   ,9s^-4Wt-  
"blo~~~~r:  4¢ ,  S'-'  ,t'
-Amm';'  ,i'r_..r.-"                                                                 '    '
O §w_ ns 1S k \Rf9
\  _,,,,,_,,1e¢---o,;w   iA        -§>a'e-
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
400.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                           tteFrs
T&t^W~$t$$lSS                       1 76       6  84      1 t6B           6 Red  tar #
t^2¢r,,,*,ffiw ~ ~ ~    ~          2 76       6  846     l 12 66         i  Red Star #2
f~~mWlSbilSt. 40~~~ 3 8t                      8 89       13 167          18 Rocket
n~~$otebgls                         ~~~~4 82  9 90       14 221          19 HuangSan
5  83     10 161    15 Nursery       20 Red Star #3



IBRD 20152
CHINA
XINJIANG AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farms and Companies In Project:
A       State Farms
*     . Agro-Processing Facilities
N-N                                             0 Z   Xinjiang AgrIculturel ndustry and Trade Corporation
*     Branch Companies
-    -     lsohyets In Millimeters
0, D    g i>F>9rt V>Elevations in Meters:
Above 3,000
j2   500.3,000
Below 500
-Roads
-g--.-Railroads
-4- -  Railroad Under Construction
t  Airports
Lakes and Rivers
Towns
o     Province Capital
@     National Capital
J   County Boundaries
g <  Prefecture Boundaries
Province Boundaries
- -International Boundaries
0      60       100     160      200
Y-~
@F Agro-Processing:
1  Slaughterhouse             5  Wool Processing Factory
2  Wool Processing Factory   6  Oilseed Plant
3 Slaughterhouse              7  Raisin Plant
4 Cottonseed Plant
=~                                                                                .,- -E
.-= ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~EPE8R18



