Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1764 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Xinjiang Agricultural Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 14, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1764 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1987, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
Page  2
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Project Areas" means areas in Bole, Zhaosu, Jinghe, Emin, Yumin, Hami, 
Turpan, Kuitun or Yining; or in such other locations in the northern part of the 
Borrower's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region as may be agreed between the Borrower and 
the Association; and
(c)
"XAITC" means the Xinjiang Agriculture, Industry and Trade Corporation, 
an administrative entity of the Borrower, existing as part of the Xinjiang Uygur 
Autonomous Region, under the overall supervision of the Borrower's Ministry of 
Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and
Fisheries, and any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to ln the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty seven million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 57,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account ln accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (l/2 of l%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or ln such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 
1997, and ending January 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on January 15, 2007 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
Page  3
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through XAITC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof 
(including XAITC).
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
reports, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
Page  4
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditures submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower's State Council has approved 
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Page  5
By /s/ Han Xu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                     Credit Allocated      % of
                      (Expressed in    Expenditures
   Category           SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
(1)    Civil works     16,400,000       50%
(2)    Equipment,      40,100,000       100% of foreign
   materials,                           expenditures,
   vehicles and                         100% of local
   livestock                            expenditures
                                        (ex-factory
                                        cost) and 75%
                                        of local ex-
                                        penditures for
                                        other items pro-
                                        cured locally
(3)    Consultants'       800,000       100%
   services and
   overseas train-
   ing
       TOTAL       SDR 57,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures ln the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
 
(a)
no withdrawals shall be made ln respect of payments made for expenditures 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 410,000, may be made from Category 2 in respect of 
expenditures for construction machinery incurred before that date but after July 1, 
1986; and
(b)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures for the 
construction or upgrading of any agro-processing plant under Part D of the Project 
Page  6
unless the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement shall first have 
been complied with in respect of such plant.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project is to assist in the further development of the 
Borrower's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region by expanding the Irrigated area for crop 
production, improving pastures, promoting livestock development and upgrading as well 
as establishing selected agro-processing plants in the Project Areas. The Project will 
serve as a model for more efficient use of the Region's land for increasing 
agricultural production.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Irrigation and Land Development
 
Improvement of crop production by the construction of irrigation works and land 
development on about 32,300 ha., upgrading of related rural roads and the provision of 
equipment, materials and vehicles.
Part B:
Pasture Improvement
 
Improvement of about 44,700 ha. pasture through the provision of seeds, 
fertilizer and equipment, ant the construction of fencing.
Part C:
Livestock Development
 
Provision of livestock for breed improvement, veterinary and livestock-related 
equipment and materials, and vehicles as well as the construction of about 180,000 
square meter.(sq.m) of animal sheds.
Part D:
Agro-Processing
 
Construction and upgrading of about seven agro-processing plants including 
slaughterhouses (with cold storage and freezing facilities), wool processing plants, 
cotton seed oil plants and raisin production faculties, as well as the provision of 
equipment and materials for such facilities.
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
 
(a)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 410,000, may be made from Category 2 in respect of 
expenditures for construction machinery incurred before that date but after July 1, 
1986; and
(b)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures for the 
construction or upgrading of any agro-processing plant under Part D of the Project 
unless the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement shall first have 
been compiled with in respect of such plant.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist in the further development of the 
Borrower's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region by expanding the irrigated area for crop 
production, improving pastures, promoting livestock development and upgrading as well 
as establishing selected agro-processing plants in the Project Areas. The Project will 
serve as a model for more efficient use of the Region's lane for increAsing 
Page  7
agricultural production.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Irrigation and Land Development
 
Improvement of crop production by the construction of irrigation works and land 
development on about 32,300 ha., upgrading of related rural roads and the provision of 
equipment, materials and vehicles.
Part B:
Pasture Improvement
 
Improvement of about 44,700 ha. pasture through the provision of seeds, 
fertilizer and equipment, and the construction of fencing.
Part C:
Livestock Development
 
Provision of livestock for breed improvement, veterinary and livestock-related 
equipment and materials, and vehicles as well as the construction of about 180,000 
square meters (sq.m) of animal sheds.
Part D:
Agro-Processing
 
Construction and upgrading of about seven agro-processing plants including 
slaughterhouses (with cold storage and freezing facilities), wool processing plants, 
cotton seed oil plants and raisin production facilities, as well as the provision of 
equipment and materials for such facilities.
Part E:
Provision of Infrastructure Facilities
 
Construction of about 200,000 sq.m. of warehousing, garage, community and 
residential facilities required in connection with the Project,
Part F:
Institutional Strengthening
 
Upgrading Project-related skills and capabilities of Project personnel through 
the provision of consulting services, training and miscellaneous office equipment.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1991.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Boilers and storage bins for agro-processing plants estimated to cost less than 
Page  8
$3,000,000 equivalent and miscellaneous equipment estimated to cost, in the aggregate, 
less than $1,000,000 (including truck trailers, small agricultural implements, pumps 
and motors), may be procured under contracts awarded through local competitive 
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $150,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.
Civil works (including land development, irrigation and building construction) 
may be carried out by state farm and branch company construction teams in accordance 
with force account and other local procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract procured in accordance with the procedures 
described in  Part A hereof and all other contracts estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to 
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account ln 
respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the  
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures on the basis of the "Guidelines 
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall establish and maintain (i) the 
Xinjiang Foreign Investment Management Office (XFIMO) in XAITC; (ii) a Project office 
in each Project branch company; and (iii) a Project unit in each Project state farm 
and enterprise, all with staffing, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the 
Association.
2.
The Borrower shall carry out training of local state farm personnel under Part F 
of the Project ln accordance with a schedule acceptable to the Association.
Page  9
3.
Prior to inviting bids in respect of each agro-processing plant under Part D of 
the Project,  XAITC shall submit, for the Association's review and concurrence, a 
detailed, up-to-date  feasibility report including a financial analysis in respect of 
such plant, inter alia, demonstrating economic and financial rates of return 
satisfactory to the Association.
4.
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, prior to inviting bids in respect 
of each agro-processing plant under Part D of the Project, XAITC shall submit, for the 
Association's review and concurrence, a detailed proposal for waste disposal 
facilities in respect of such plant.
5.
(a)
Proceeds of the Credit provided to agro-processing enterprises for 
purchasing
agro-processing equipment shall be provided on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association.
(b)
Proceeds of the Credit provided to state farms for land development shall 
be fully recovered through appropriate contractual arrangements on terms equivalent to 
the blended cost of all funds provided for such purpose.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2 and 3 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost  of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SDR 
4,100,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts not 
exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such 
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
Page  10
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered 
into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the 
amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower,  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was mate for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
