The World Bank                                             1818 H Street N.W.           (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT      Washington, D.C. 20433       Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                      U.S.A.                       Cable Address: INDEVAS


                                                                                         CONFORMED

                                                                                            June 1, 2011

        His Excellency Dr. Sidi Ould Tah
        Minister of Economic Affairs and Development
        Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development
        Nouakchott
        Islamic Republic of Mauritania

        Excellency:

                      ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA: Credit No. 3810-MAU
                            (Second Mining Sector Capacity Building Project)
                           Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement

                 We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the Agreement), dated July 26, 2003, for
        the above-mentioned Project, between the Islamic Republic of Mauritania (the Recipient) and the
        International Development Association (the Association). We also refer to your letter
        no.356/MPEM/M, dated March 23, 2011, requesting an harmonization of the procedures for the
        procurement of works, goods and services applicable to the financing provided pursuant to the
        Agreement (the Original Financing), the financing provided pursuant to the Financing Agreement
        (3810-1-MAU) between the Association and the Recipient dated July 19, 2006 (the First
        Additional Financing), and the financing provided pursuant to a Financing Agreement of even
        date herewith (the Second Additional Financing). Finally we refer to the minutes of negotiations
        of the Second Additional Financing dated April 4, 2011, reflecting the agreement of the Recipient
        and the Association on the opportunity of other amendments to the Agreement for purpose of
        harmonization of the provisions applicable to the Original Financing, the First Additional
        Financing and the Second Additional Financing.

               We are pleased to inform you that the Association accedes to your request and proposes
        to amend the Agreement as follows:

                1.      Section 2.03 of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:

                        “Section 2.03. (a)      The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2011 or such
                        later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
                        notify the Borrower of such later date.

                        (b)      Without limitation to the generality of the provision included in
                        paragraph (a) immediately above, the Closing Date shall be extended to October
                        1, 2012, but exclusively for the purpose of carrying out Project activities and
                        financing from the funds of the Credit expenditures related thereto, for: (i) the
                        interpretation and synthesis of geo-scientific data, (ii) the supervision of geo-
                        scientific data interpretation, and (iii) the environmental audits of major mine
                        operations.?

                2.      Please note that in accordance with Section 3.7 of the World Bank Disbursement
                        Guidelines for Projects (May 2006) (the “Disbursement Guidelines?), the



                                      RCA 248423.   WUI 64145   FAX (202) 477-6391
H. E. Dr. Sidi Ould Tah                         -2-                              June 23, 2011


               Financing disbursement deadline date is extended four months after the Closing
               Date. The Association will accept applications for withdrawal and supporting
               documentation until the Disbursement Deadline Date provided, however, that
               such applications are related to the financing of Eligible Expenditures incurred
               on or before the Closing Date, in accordance with Section 3.6 of the
               Disbursement Guidelines.

       3.      In Schedule 2 to the Agreement, the first paragraph is deleted in its entirety and
               replaced with the following language:

               “The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Recipient’s capacity to manage
               national mineral sector activities in an environmentally, socially and
               economically sustainable manner.?

       4.      In Schedule 3 to the Agreement, but exclusively for the procurement of works,
               goods and non consultant services not started on the date of this amendment,
               Section I.A is amended to read as follows:

               “Part A:          General

                       Works and goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
               Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
               Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
               Borrowers? published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October, 2006
               and May 2010 (the Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section I.?

       5.      In Schedule 3 to the Agreement, but exclusively for the selection of consultants
               not started on the date of this amendment, Section II.A is amended to read as
               follows:

               “Part A:          General

               1.         Consultants’ services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
                          shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction
                          and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
                          Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World
                          Bank Borrowers? published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
                          October, 2006 and May 2010 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the
                          following provisions of this Section II.?

       6.      In Schedule 4 to the Agreement, Section II.2.(a) is amended to read as follows:

               “2.        The Borrower shall:

               (a)     Maintain, and cause UCPM to maintain, policies and procedures
               adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance
               with indicators acceptable to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and
               the achievement of the objectives thereof;?

       7.      Schedule 6 to the Agreement is deleted in its entirety.
H. E. Dr. Sidi Ould Tah                        -3-                                June 23, 2011


        All other provisions of the Agreement except as amended herein, shall remain in full
force and effect.

         Please confirm your agreement to the amendment by countersigning, dating and returning
to us the enclosed copy of this letter, while keeping one original for your records.

        This amendment shall become effective as of the date of countersignature of this letter.

                                            Sincerely,


                                      //s// Moctar Thiam
                                Country Manager for Mauritania
                                         Africa Region

AGREED:

ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA


By:                                //s// Dr. Sidi Ould Tah
Minister of Economic Affairs and Development

Date:                                     June 23, 2011
H. E. Dr. Sidi Ould Tah                     -4-                          June 23, 2011


Cleared by and bcc:       H. Bertaud (LEGAF); W. Chadab (CTR___);

                                             Bcc:                   [_______________]
