The World Bank                                             1818 H Street N.W.                (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT      Washington, D.C. 20433            Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                      U.S.A.                            Cable Address: INDEVAS


                                                                                            CONFORMED

                                                                                     June 1, 2011

        His Excellency Dr. Sidi Ould Tah
        Minister of Economic Affairs and Development
        Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development
        Nouakchott
        Islamic Republic of Mauritania

        Excellency:

                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA: Credit No. 3810-1-MAU
              (Additional Financing for the Second Mining Sector Capacity Building Project)
                                Amendment to the Financing Agreement

                 We refer to the Financing Agreement (the Agreement), dated July 19, 2006, for the
        above-mentioned Project, between the Islamic Republic of Mauritania (the Recipient) and the
        International Development Association (the Association). We also refer to your letter
        no.356/MPEM/M, dated March 23, 2011, requesting an harmonization of the procedures for the
        procurement of works, goods and services applicable to the financing provided pursuant to the
        Development Credit Agreement (the DCA) entered into on July 26, 2003 between the Association
        and the Recipient (the Original Financing), the financing provided pursuant to this Agreement
        (the First Additional Financing), and the financing provided pursuant to a Financing Agreement
        of even date herewith (the Second Additional Financing). Finally we refer to the minutes of
        negotiations of the Second Additional Financing dated April 4, 2011, reflecting the agreement of
        the Recipient and the Association on the opportunity of other amendments to the Agreement for
        purpose of harmonization of the provisions applicable to the Original Financing, the First
        Additional Financing and the Second Additional Financing.

               We are pleased to inform you that the Association accedes to your request and proposes
        to amend the Agreement as follows:

                1.      Further to the amendment of the DCA of even date herewith, the objective of the
                        Project has been amended to read as follows:

                        “The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Recipient’s capacity to manage
                        national mineral sector activities in an environmentally, socially and
                        economically sustainable manner.?

                2.      In Schedule 1 to the Agreement, Section II.A.1 is amended to read as follows:

                        “1.     The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and
                        prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the
                        General Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Association.
                        Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall
                        be furnished to the Association not later than one (1) month after the end of the
                        period covered by such report.?

                3.      In Schedule 1 to the Agreement, Section IV.B is amended to read as follows:



                                      RCA 248423.   WUI 64145   FAX (202) 477-6391
H. E. Dr. Sidi Ould Tah                        -2-                                 June 1, 2011


                “The Closing Date is November 15, 2013.?

        4.      In the Appendix to the Agreement, definition 2 is amended to read as follows:

                “2.    “Consultant Guidelines? means the “Guidelines: Selection and
                Employment of Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
                World Bank Borrowers? published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
                October, 2006 and May 2010.?

        5.      In the Appendix to the Agreement, definition 7 is amended to read as follows:

                “7.     “Procurement Guidelines? means the “Guidelines: Procurement of
                Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
                and Grants by World Bank Borrowers? published by the Bank in May 2004 and
                revised in October, 2006 and May 2010.?

        All other provisions of the Agreement except as amended herein, shall remain in full
force and effect.

         Please confirm your agreement to the amendment by countersigning, dating and returning
to us the enclosed copy of this letter, while keeping one original for your records.

        This amendment shall become effective as of the date of countersignature of this letter.

                                            Sincerely,


                                      //s// Moctar Thiam
                                Country Manager for Mauritania
                                         Africa Region

AGREED:

ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA


By:     //s// Dr. Sidi Ould Tah
        Minister of Economic Affairs and Development

Date:   June 23, 2011
