 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14798

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 09/01/2015

               Country: Mauritania
             Project ID: P078383                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Second Mining Sector          Project Costs (US$M):                      36.3                 34.65
                         Capacity Building
                         Project
  L/C Number:            C3810                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                       21.1                  20.3
      Sector Board:      Energy and Mining            Cofinancing (US$M):                        7.0                   3.6

           Cofinanciers: Islamic Development         Board Approval Date :                                 07/08/2003
                         Bank, Japanese                       Closing Date:            09/15/2008          11/15/2013
                         International
                         Cooperation Agency
          Sector(s):     Mining and other extractive (70%); Central government administration (20%); Sub-national
                         government administration (10%)
          Theme(s):      Environmental policies and institutions (29% - P); Other public sector governance (29% - P);
                         Other environment and natural resources management (14% - S); Water resource
                         management (14% - S); Participation and civic engagement (14% - S)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Nestor Ntungwanayo        Peter Nigel Freeman     Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The project objectives as defined in the project appraisal document (PAD) on page 2 were to:

" (i) build up and consolidate the Government's long term institutional and technical capacity to manage the country' s
mineral resources, including social and environmental management; (ii) promote private investments in the minerals
sector; and (iii) improve mining sector contribution to national and regional socio-economic development".

The project's development objective as stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) on page 15 differed from
the one in the PAD and intended to:

    “strengthen the Borrower’s capacity to regulate mining activities in its territory and thereby facilitate private
    investment in the mining sector, through: (i) fostering local economic development in mining areas, (ii) improving
    gathering and access to geological information, and (iii) strengthening the Borrower’s institutional and technical
    capacity to manage mineral resources”.

Following a project restructuring in July 2011, the project objective was revised and aimed to:

    " strengthen the recipient capacity to manage national mineral sector activities in an environmentally, socially and
    economically sustainable manner" (Page 1 of the Amendment to the Financing Agreement, and page 5 of the
    2011 Project Paper).

This review carries out a split assessment of project performance against the initial objective as stated in the 2003
DCA, and the revised objective as formulated in the Amendment to the Financing Agreement during the project
restructuring in July 2011.



b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 07/21/2011

c. Components:

A. Initial components:

Component 1: Strengthening Economic Development in Mining Areas (Cost at appraisal was US $7.15 million, of
which US$6.57 million to be Bank -financed. Actual cost amounted to US $6.84 million) :
This component aimed at:
  Supporting (i) commercial or artisanal activities, of private operators in launching mining operations, such as
     transport, maintenance of mining equipment, furnishing services to workers active in mining, and diversifying into
     other sectors, and (ii) investments into social infrastructure, such as access roads, points of access to water; and
     generators and other electric energy generating systems;
  Strengthening administrative and logistical expertise of local communities in mining areas to deliver economic
     and social services, and regional administrative authorities, and local communities to plan, design and carry out
     social and environmental development plans;
  Strengthening administrative expertise of Société Nationale Industrielle et Minière (SNIM) to design, administer,
     supervise and audit the environmental aspects through the provision of technical assistance services and training
     to selected staff;
  Carrying out of studies and surveys to explore the hydrological resources in mining areas, and assess the
     feasibility of the cost efficient delivery of water in mining areas; and
  Carrying out a baseline study of household income in mining zones, through the provision of technical advisory
     services.

Component 2: Improving Geo-scientific Information Collection and Access to said Information    (Cost at appraisal
was US$12.49 million, of which US$5.79 million to be Bank -financed. Actual cost amounted to US $9.50 million)

The second component intended to support activities aimed to:
  Carry out studies and surveys to improve the geo-scientific information of the Borrower’s territory for land-use
    and environmental conservation management, development of water resources and promotion of investments in
    the mining and other sectors, through airborne geophysical surveys, geological mapping, metallogenic studies of
    selected ore districts or minerals, updating of the Borrower’s hydro-geological map, and research to improve
    known scarce water availability in selected areas with identified mining potential;
  Provide technical advisory services to selected government agencies involved in geographical and geological
    data collection to carry out, analyze, process and effectively use said data; and
  Facilitate access of the interested public to geographical and geological data through publication of said data,
    and access to the respective government databases.

Component 3: Capacity Building of Public Mining Institutions (Cost at appraisal was US $4.49 million, of which
US$4.15 million to be Bank -financed. Actual cost amounted to US $5.78 million):

The third component aimed to fund activities aimed at:
  Improving inter-agency cooperation and service to the public through the establishment of Unite de promotion du
   secteur minier (UPM), through the carrying out of works, acquisition of equipment and provision of technical
   advisory services and training;
  Strengthening the management of the Mining Cadastre Unit and technical capacity through the provision of
   technical advisory services and training, and the maintenance of existing and acquisition of new equipment;
  Strengthening environmental management in the mining sector through: (i) provision of technical advisory
   services and training to selected staff, carrying out joint environmental assessment studies; and (ii) provision of
   technical advisory services and training to selected staff to strengthen their capacity to carry out and evaluate the
   results of environmental audits pertaining to the mining sector;
  Institutional strengthening of the mining and geology Directorate in the areas of practical fieldwork, monitoring
   compliance by private and public parties active in the mining sector with existing regulations and improving the
   efficiency of the Mining and Geological Mining Information (SIGM);
    Managing and accounting for revenues generated by the mining sector and earmarked for continued investment
     in the mining sector through the provision of technical advisory services, training to selected staff and the
     acquisition of equipment;
    Strengthening of existing and promotion of new technical, managerial and administrative skills of selected private
     and public actors active in the mining sector through the provision of training and the carrying out of workshops,
     seminars and conferences.

Component 4: Project Management and Supervision (Cost at appraisal was US $2.07million, of which US$1.49
million to be Bank -financed. Actual cost amounted to US $6.75 million)

    The fourth component was to support activities facilitating the coordination, administration, supervision and
     monitoring of Project implementation and cross-information harmonization of activities pertinent to the mining
     sector among involved entities, through the carrying out of training programs, acquisition of equipment and
     provision of technical advisory services to selected staff. The actual costs of this component is distorted, as it
     recorded training costs.

B. Additional components :

Component 5: Support to Petroleum Sector (Cost at appraisal was US $5.50 million, of which US$5.00 million was to
be Bank-financed. Actual cost amounted to US $5.08 million)

Following additional Bank resources provided in 2006 in the amount of US$5.0 million to expand the project and
support the petroleum sector, the following activities were selected to be funded by the project:
   To improve the legal regulatory and contractual framework by preparing a coherent package of sector secondary
     legislation and regulations, which create a new regime with a precise regulation on the functions, mandate and
     organization of the Ministry of Energy and Petroleum (MEP) and its respective Directorates, the Mauritanian
     Company of Hydrocarbons and other sector related agencies;
   To support capacity building by recruiting a core team of local petroleum engineers, economists and lawyers that
     will be trained and will be representing the MEP in the preparation of the Petroleum Law, in the Environmental
     Advisory Committee, and the implementation of the Petroleum Revenue Management Policy;
   To enhance the environmental management of the petroleum sector through the preparation of
     environmental regulations, and the training of a core team that will be responsible for the approval, and
     monitoring of the environmental assessment of oil projects;
   To strengthen data management and petroleum cadastre by the creation of a data bank and a related information
     system for the management of the oil sector and for evaluating the hydrocarbon resources of the country; and
   To conduct sector strategic assessments such as the utilization of natural gas, strategy for the promotion of
     exploration in acreage from relinquished blocks, cost reporting, and economic modeling, contribution to the
     implementation of the revenue management policy.

Component 6: The School of Mines and Vocational training : (Cost at appraisal was US $1.05 million. Actual cost
amounted to US$0.70 million)

In response to strong government and industry demand for skilled mine technicians and sector expansion, an
additional financing to address the complete value chain of extractive industries was provided, and the Bank approved
in July 2011 an additional amount of US$7.1 million to fund the following activities:
   The major portion of the additional funding (US$6.96 million) was used to scale up the activities already
     identified under the initial project under the four headings: (i) Local economic development in the mining areas,
     (ii) geo-information and development, (iii) Capacity building of public mining institutions, and (iv) Project
     coordination and management. This additional funding was used to expand initial activities and new activities as
     well. Actual costs for this funding are reported under the initial four components.
   A new component was added aiming to support the creation of a School of Mines and vocational training, key
     activities being: (i) coordination and advisory services to School of Mines development, (ii) curriculum
     development and research/professional outreach programs, (iii) training of trainers, (iv) peer review of School of
     Mines development, and (v) coordination of vocational training programs.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Cost: This was a second project supporting technical capacity building in the mining sector in Mauritania for actual
costs of US$34.65 million, or the equivalent of 96% of the costs at appraisal.

Financing: The project was funded by an initial credit of US$18.00 million approved in 2003, and complemented by
two additional financing operations approved in 2006 and 2011 for respective amounts of US$5.00 million and
US$7.10 million.
Cofinancing: The Islamic Development Bank and the Japanese International Cooperation Agency were to contribute
for US$5 million, and US$2.0 million respectively, but the ICR did not provide the actual disbursements made on
these resources and what components were involved. Support was also expected from the French Development
Agency, and the European Development Bank, but the ICR did not report on actual disbursements by these
cofinanciers.

Borrower Contribution : There was a limited borrower contribution, estimated at US$1.2 million at appraisal, but the
ICR did not report on the actual amount disbursed by the borrower.

Dates: The credit was made effective on October 17, 2003, three months after approval. Project preparation was
supported by a Japanese TF made effective on March, 04, 2003, followed by the technical assistance loan made
effective on October 17, 2003. Two additional financing operations were approved on July 06, 2006 and May 19,
2011 and made effective on December 14, 2006 and November 15, 2011 respectively. The first additional financing
aimed to fund activities to support the Petroleum sector, while the second operation was to fund the creation of a
School of Mines and Vocational training and to scale up activities supported by the initial financing. At the occasion of
the second additional financing, the project objective was revised, including the key outcome indicators. The closing
date of the original credit was extended until December 31, 2011. Implementation of the first and second additional
financing tranches were extended until November 15, 2013. The project was closed on revised schedule, almost five
years after initial closing date of the first credit.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

Initial project: Substantial

Extractive activities have been at the center of Mauritania's economy since independence, and that importance was
reflected in the country's 2001 PRSP and the successive CASs, which highlighted the country’s objective of achieving
development through increased private sector expansion and natural resources exploitation.

Government's mining strategy in 1997 was to increase revenues through the diversification of production in the mining
sector, and accelerate the growth of the mining sector by creating favorable conditions through the removal of
obstacles which constrain private sector development. More specifically, the main sector issues addressed by the
Government strategy were to: (i) rationalize the role of the State by reducing its involvement in mining exploration and
development activities, (ii) ensure sustainability of the Ministry of Mining and Industry (MMI) agencies involved in
monitoring and regulating mining activities, (iii) spearhead environmental management capacity building, and (iv)
promote private sector investment in the mining sector (PAD).

The 2002 CAS pillars for Mauritania were to: (i) strengthen institutional development and governance (ii) accelerate
private sector-led growth and (iii) foster infrastructure. To specifically support the mining sector, the CAS identified a
range of activities falling under mining sector, including: (i) continued development of information systems and web
sites (mining rights, geological information for mining, environment, hydro geology); (ii) participatory development
activities within the Zouerate-Nouadhibou corridor, (iii) certification to allow product standards to be met, an effective
financial sector and business services, the removal of remaining private sector constraints and lowering of high
transaction costs; and (iv) the development of the economic infrastructure in order to facilitate trade, reduce
production costs, and enhance the competitiveness of the national economy (CAS 2002).

While not clearly formulated, the project objectives were well aligned with the country's priorities, and the 2002 CAS
pillars, and their relevance is rated as substantial.

Revised project: High

In June 2011, the project was restructured, with a revision of the project objective and outcome indicators. The
project objective was more clearly stated, and additional resources were provided to scale up the activities identified
at appraisal, as well as a new component to support the School of mines.

The Bank project was consistent with the third PRSP action plan approved by the Government in 2013 , which is
articulated around four core strategic pillars as follows: (i) the first pillar related to accelerating economic growth as
this is the basis for all poverty reduction, improving the competitiveness of the economy, and reducing its dependence
on external factors, (ii) the second core pillar was to anchor growth in the economic sphere of the poor by enhancing
their potential for growth and productivity, (iii) the third core strategy focused on human resource development by
improving access to essential infrastructure, and (iv) the fourth core strategy emphasized the promotion of
institutional development supported by good governance and the full participation of all stakeholders in the fight
against poverty.

The importance of the mineral sector remained high on the agenda of the FY 2014-16 CPS, which was underpinned
by two pillars as follows: (i) Growth and Diversification will support infrastructure development, private sector
development, and strengthening of the financial sector. In supporting these main drivers of poverty reduction and
improving shared prosperity, this CPS was to contribute to inclusive growth and a more competitive economy.
Additional activities were to identify ways to trigger shared prosperity linked to the thriving mining industry, and to help
unleash the potential of the agriculture and fisheries sectors, and (ii) Economic Governance and Service Delivery
aimed at enhancing public sector capacity to: (a) promote effective use of the resources generated from growth; (b)
support job creation through education and skills development; and (c) address vulnerability at the household level.

With the objective defined more clearly and additional resources provided to support achievement of project outcome,
the project was still consistent with the country priorities developed in the third PRSP action plan, and the recent
Country Partnership Strategy, and the relevance of objective was reinforced, and is rated as high.

b. Relevance of Design:

Initial project: Modest

The statement of objectives was unclear at appraisal. The statement in the PAD was different from the one in the
DCA, not concise, and a retrofit of the project components. However, the project intent was clear, as it aimed to
provide TA and strengthen the country's capacity in the management of the mining sector. The design of the project
was flexible, and factored in the unstable conditions of the borrower, and was able to scale up the project by providing
two additional financing amounts to respond to demand in the country's mining sector. The initial project and both
additional financing operations were designed with due consideration to the complete value chain of the extractive
industries.

The theory of change underlying the project design was relatively weak, because the results matrix was not supported
by appropriate indicators, and the baseline for indicators was lacking in most instances. M&E arrangements were also
rudimentary. Moreover, attribution of results and outcomes was difficult to establish, because of a previous related
project and many donors who have been supporting the same areas of the mining sector. A more thought-through
result matrix was needed in order to capture the contribution of this specific project.
Revised project: Substantial

The statement of objectives after restructuring improved somewhat, but was still overarching, as it intended to
address larger mining issues with limited resources. It was over-ambitious to expect a TA project to settle mining
issues in an environmentally, socially and economically sustainable manner.

The project results matrix and the M&E arrangements improved significantly. The outcome indicators were
streamlined and a stronger results chain between the activities, the outputs, the outcome and the objective was
established. However, the issue of attribution identified above was not singled out as an obstacle to capture the
project contribution in achieving the outcome.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

Initial project- October 2003- June 2011: Substantial

      “strengthen the Borrower’s capacity to regulate mining activities in its territory and thereby facilitate private
     investment in the mining sector, through: (i) fostering local economic development in mining areas, (ii) improving
     gathering and access to geological information, and (iii) strengthening the Borrower’s institutional and technical
     capacity to manage mineral resources”.

This review assesses achievements at project closure against outcome and output indicators set at project approval:

Outcomes

    Fostering local economic development in mining areas :
       Average household income reached Mauritanian Ouguyas (MRO) 126,800 in areas where local economic
         development activities are implemented, against a baseline of 45,745 MRO;
         Communes/villages participating in micro project program and/or local investment reached 27, against a
          baseline of 8;
         Completion of 206 small grants activities;
         Number of micro-projects initiated was 2,152 for a target of 1,100;
         M&E Database populated with 3 surveys and operational for tracking of socio-economic indicators in mining
          areas;
         Railway and harbor facilities in North West Mauritania have been open to other economic operators.

    Improving gathering and access to geological information :
        Access to geo-data and hydrological data at the Ministry, but no online data access;
        Airborne surveys totaling 680,000 line km over three selected areas. As a result, more than 70% of the
          national territory has been covered. At the end of the project, 75 map sheets at an 1/200,000 scale had
          been completed;
        International consultants (BRGM, BGS) produced an additional 21 geological maps at the 1:200,000 scale
          (185,000 km²) over selected areas of the country;
        A hydro-geological map at the scale of 1:500,000 was completed;
        Products include various maps of Mauritania at the 1/1,000,000 scale as well as regional mineral resources
          assessments, ore deposits modeling and exploration of methodology guidelines, thematic studies on
          geo-environment.
     Strengthening the Borrower’s institutional and technical capacity to manage mineral resources :
        The number of mining-related personnel trained in social development issues reached 850 against a target
          of 750;
        40% of trained people were direct female beneficiaries against a target of 30%, and 75% of initiated
          micro-projects benefitted directly female promoters for a baseline of zero in each case;
        There was further expansion of the Mining Cadaster Unit, and modernization of its software system
          up-grading of equipment, plus additional training of its staff;
        Creation of a Mines Inspection Division;
        Creation of a computerized Mining Sector Monitoring System
        7 lecturers and two personnel staff completed training against a target of 10, and a baseline of zero;

Outputs
         Production of 75 map sheets, and 53 interpretations and substance analyses
         Full curriculum for 5 years academic program has been completed.
         Development of a manual and training program for community development funds

Project efficacy included increased household income in areas close to mining sites, a high number of micro-projects,
geological and hydro-geological maps at different scales, and modernization of the institutional and technical capacity.


Revised project- July 2011- November 2013: Substantial

     " to strengthen the recipient capacity to manage national mineral sector activities in an environmentally, socially
     and economically sustainable manner".

Outcome
  The number of mining-related personnel trained in social development issues reached 850 against a target of
    750, while the number of micro-projects initiated was 2,152 for a target of 1,100 ;
  40% of trained people were direct female beneficiaries against a target of 30%, and 75% of initiated
    micro-projects benefitted directly female promoters;
  Performance in time required to process a mining title by the Mining Cadastre was exceeded, and it is currently
    21 days against a target of 30 days;
  Average household income in areas where local economic development activities were implemented increased
    up to MRO 126,800, against a target of MRO119,000 for baseline of MRO 45,745;
  The 3 companies representing 98% of production value in the mining sector have been reporting annually to a
    central compliance database on performance standards (environment, social, operational, fiscal), against a target
    of 60% of the operators, for a baseline of one company;
  27 Communes/villages are participating in micro-project program and/or local investment plans against a target
    of 15, and a baseline of 8;
  206 micro-projects completed under the small grants program, against a target of 75 micro-projects, and a
    baseline of zero;
  Two additional mines are currently in operation;
  An increase in average annual exploration investment in the mining sector reached US$104 million, against a
    target of US$33.5 million, and a baseline of US$13.5 million;
    An increase in average annual mineral exports of 8% at closure, against a target of 10%;
    Access to geo-data and hydrological data at the Ministry, but no online data access;
    Student survey satisfaction rating at the School of Mines resulted in 80% positive response rating.

Outputs
  Hydrocarbons Law and regulations were revised and approved in line with international practice;
  Sector Databank and Information Systems for petroleum have been established within 30 months of
    effectiveness of additional financing;
  Environmental regulations for petroleum sector management have been prepared with participation of sector
    stakeholders and are effective; Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment completed, and an
    Environmental Unit in place in the Ministry of Petroleum, Energy and Mines;
  Petroleum cadaster was established and fully functional;
  Creation of Environmental Unit for the petroleum sector
  Modernized Production Sharing Contracts (PSC) have been adopted;
  Railway and harbor facilities were open to other economic operators;
  M&E Database populated with 3 surveys for tracking of socio-economic indicators in mining areas;
  Regulatory framework drafted and approved for the autonomy of the School of Mines;
  7 lecturers and two personnel staff have completed training against a target of 10, and a baseline of zero;
  Full curriculum for 5 years academic program has been completed.

Project efficacy included reduction in the time needed to process a mining title, a sharp increase in the mining
investment and in country's exports, an improved access to geo-data and hydrological data, and improved household
income, as a reflection of the micro-project program performance. However, attribution of this entire performance
remains an issue.


5. Efficiency:

Modest

The ICR could not conduct a traditional economic and financial analysis at appraisal and at closure, because this was
a TA project. Instead of attempting an assessment of administrative and institutional efficiency, the ICR made a
repetition of elements that are part of the project efficacy.

The project life spanned a period of close to ten years, instead of an initial planned duration of five years. Initial
project was brought to closure in December 2011, three years after initial planned term, while the duration of the two
additional financing operations was extended until November 2013. The key reason for this extended project
implementation period was the flexibility shown by the Bank in approving two additional financing operations. This
move can be considered as a feature of realism and ability of the team to adjust to the borrower's conditions, but it can
also be interpreted as a failure in project appraisal. Most additional financing aimed to scale up activities identified at
appraisal, reflecting possible under-estimation of the project scope in the first place.

Finally, the ICR reported (page 38) that the allocation and accounting of project resources was partially distorted, as
illustrated by the recording of training and consultants costs under the actual expenditure of the project management
category. Moreover, the ICR does not give detail on performance in the project financial and procurement
management. What happened under the project management category might have occurred under other expenditure
categories, suggesting an unclear picture of the efficient use of the project resources.

Because of long delays in implementing the project, and flaws in recording and reporting the use of resources,
efficiency in the use of project resources is rated as modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                        No
     ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
Initial Project: June 2003- May 2011: 57% of disbursed amount : Moderately Satisfactory :
The relevance of objectives at appraisal was substantial while the relevance of design was modest. Efficacy was
substantial, as there was good progress in increased household income in areas close to mining sites, a high number
of micro-projects, geological and hydro-geological maps at different scales, and modernization of the institutional and
technical capacity.

Revised Project: June 2011- September 2011: 43% of disbursed amount : Satisfactory

The relevance of objectives at restructuring phase was high, and the relevance of design was substantial. Key
achievements included a reduction in the time needed to process a mining title, a sharp increase in the mining
investment and in country's exports, an improved access to geo-data and hydrological data, and improved household
income, as a reflection of the micro-project program performance. However, attribution of this performance remains
an issue.

Efficiency is in the use of project resources is rated as modest, because of long delays in implementing the project,
and flaws in recording and reporting the use of resources.

Applying the harmonized IEG/OPCS formula in assessing this restructured project [(0.57*4)+ (0.43*5)= 4.4],
achievement of project outcome is rated as moderately satisfactory .

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

Moderate

The completion of two TA projects (PRISM 1, and PRISM 2) supporting the mining sector in Mauritania has
contributed to the transformation of the extractive industry (EI) chain in that country. The ministerial structure has
become more stable with currently petroleum and mining being housed under the same ministry. Sustainable funding
mechanisms have been progressively put in place by which 0.1% operators’ revenue is allocated to training and skills
up-grading of ministry staff. Moreover, the mining institutions (the two Cadastres, SIGE, SIGM, and Mining Police)
are now fully autonomous, with some producing their own cash flow. The revenues generated by the mining cadastre
have steadily increased, allowing autonomy of central administration in building internal technical capacity to take up
increasing responsibility in managing a buoyant extractive sector.

The civil society has been associated to the changes occurring in the extractive industry (EI) and is currently engaged
in the country's efforts to improve transparency in revenue management. Under the oversight of the national EITI
committee, a platform for consultation between civil society, government and the private sector has been established.
This platform has helped to create a common understanding of the actual fiscal contribution by the EI. However,
much work is still needed to make sure that the growth in the EI translates in shared prosperity. A better design of tax
instruments and incentives is required together with capacity strengthening in tax calculation and collection, including
tax audit exercises and financial modeling. An analysis and subsequent capacity building would focus on (i)
bench-marking Mauritania in comparison with other mining countries, (ii) the effectiveness of the current fiscal
architecture, and (iii) administration of tax and revenue collection.

A follow-up operation is under preparation for FY 2015 under a new multi-sector capacity building project, benefiting a
number of ministries and agencies including the Ministry of Finance, that would inter alia address EI revenue
collection and management at the central level. Also the annual revenue reporting promoted by the EITI will continue
under the auspices of the national EITI committee.

Based on the above perspectives in the extractive industry and the remaining challenges, the risk to development
outcome is assessed as moderate.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
The project design reflected the successful completion of a preceding project (PRISM I) in the mining sector, and
incorporated lessons learned from similar TA operations in other mining countries worldwide. The project was
innovative as it sought to modernize the extractive industry by supporting local development planning and
strengthening capacity of local and central authorities. The mix of field surveys, analytical studies, legal and
regulatory drafting, training and support to the various agencies was instrumental to institutional strengthening and
transformation of the EI. Toward the promotion of local economic development, a balanced mix was chosen
between a small grant program and actions for the strengthening of the local authorities.

The project activities have gradually evolved from institutional capacity building and investment promotion to a
stronger emphasis on managing the impacts and benefits of extractive industries and responding to community
and government needs. The project was broadened and deepened with the two additional financing operations,
with the first one expanding its scope to the oil sector and the second one launching the establishment of the
School of Mines. The flexibility shown by the Bank in approving two additional financing operations can be
considered as a feature of realism and ability of the team to adjust to the borrower's conditions, but it can also be
interpreted as a failure in project appraisal, because most additional financing aimed to scale up activities
identified at appraisal, reflecting possible under-estimation of the project scope in the first place.

An in-depth risk assessment and stronger donor coordination could have contributed to smoother implementation
and increased dialogue. At appraisal, critical risks were assessed, but political risks were ignored, in hindsight,
implementation was affected by political and institutional instability. Many donors were present in Mauritania
(including the IMF, Islamic Development Bank, France and Japan), and ready to support the transformation of the
EI, but the ICR did not report much on how the Bank has used its convening capacity to establish a
comprehensive dialogue among stakeholders, with the intent to support a balanced transformation of the EI. A
negative consequence of this limited dialogue has been the delay in bringing revenue and fiscal management
issues into the agenda of EI transformation.

On balance, quality of entry is rated as moderately satisfactory, based on the advantages of implementing a
second project in the mining sector, and the limits in political risk assessment, and in the adoption of a sequential
approach to mining reforms, instead of a comprehensive approach in the design of the project.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

The strongest part of this project supervision was that there have been 4 TTLs, who remained in the same unit for
the entire duration of the project. Continuity of the Bank team was high and very much appreciated by the
borrower. The supervision team, with steady assistance of the country office was constantly engaged in sector
dialogue with the Borrower and provided substantial assistance in the government interaction with other donors
(such as the IDB, NORAD, GIZ) and the private investors.

Strong performance included (i) the speed and effectiveness of re-engagement of the Bank in the EI sector after
the 2008-2009 suspension of disbursement and missions,(ii) the synergies achieved with the EITI programs, and
(iii) the intense policy dialogue in order to safeguard the important institutional gains previously achieved, at every
change of government and particularly the successive episodes of institutional reorganization when the ministries
responsible for mines and for oil were split or re-merged.

However, there was temporary neglect of the ISR as a vehicle for comprehensively recording issues for
management attention and action, and for recording significant developments. For some period of time (2006-
2009), detailed comments and recommendations contained in the aide-memoires following the supervision
mission were not fully reflected in the ISRs. Weaknesses in M&E implementation were a handicap for the Bank
team to provide evidence on efficacy achieved before the project restructuring in 2011.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:
a. Government Performance:

While borrower ownership and commitment were high during most of the project life, the country experienced
institutional and political instability, factors that made the dialogue costly in time and resources. While the
government was reluctant toward Bank engagement in the hydrocarbon sector, all successive governments after
2005 supported reform initiatives related to governance issues in the EI.

Ministries' and the agencies’ commitment to sector reform remained firm throughout the project life and performed
well in implementation of the PRISM-2. The monitoring and reporting activities were carried out and regularly
overseen by the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). Counterpart financing was timely and satisfactory. While there
were no significant problems in procurement, disbursement or financial management, the ICR did not indicate if
there was an unqualified report on the project accounts by an external oversight body.

   Government Performance Rating                                      Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

Members of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) were active since the beginning of PRISM-1until the end of
PRISM-2, thus being the anchor of the project implementation. The PCU resisted the setbacks of political and
institutional instability and helped to keep the project implementation on course. The PCU maintained a pro-active
relationship with implementing agencies and the Bank team throughout the project implementation, and was at the
center of the project performance.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                          Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                              Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

    Outcome indicators adopted in 2003 were clearly defined, except an institutional sustainability index which was
    later dropped, but they did not have baselines. The indicators for the oil component added in 2006 reflected well
    the TA nature of the operation, but most of them were outputs. The set of indicators was adjusted in 2011 as a
    part of the second Additional Financing. Final target numbers were increased, some reshuffling between PDO
    and intermediate indicators, and new M&E database for tracking socioeconomic developments in mining, and
    new intermediate indicators added for the new School of Mines component. The table below shows changes in
    the project performance indicators.

     Changes In Project Performance Indicators .



    No                 June 2003                                        June 2006                                  June 2011
     1   MMI able to promote, manage and        The hydrocarbons law and regulations have been          Hydrocarbons Law and
         monitor performance of the mining      revised in line with international practice.            regulations have been
         industry by further training of                                                                revised in line with
         professional staff                                                                             international practice
     2   Systematic application of             The Production Sharing Contract model, to be applied Time required to process a
         consultative processes                to new petroleum permits, has been revised and           mining title by the Mining
                                               modernized.                                              Cadaster
     3   Sustainability Index of public mining Training of staff at the Ministry in charge of Petroleum Database established for
         institutions measuring staffing       has been implemented Supervision and Compliance tracking of mine operators’
         competence level, financial                                                                    performance
         accounts, budget procedures, and
         staff
         remuneration
     4   10% increase in average cumulative The Environmental Unit at the Ministry in charge of          Direct project beneficiaries
         annual investments in mining          Petroleum has been created 9 months after
                                               effectiveness and the Strategic Environmental and
                                               Social Assessment (SESA) has been completed 12
                                              months after effectiveness.
      5   10% increase in average             Environmental regulations for petroleum sector           Direct female project
          cumulative annual minerals          management have been prepared, with the                  beneficiaries
          exports by project end              participation of sector stakeholders, and are effective.

      6   Improved coverage and access to     The Petroleum Cadastre is operative 18 months after 20% Increase in household
          geological information              effectiveness.                                      income in
                                                                                                  areas where local economic
                                                                                                  development activities are
                                                                                                  implemented
      7   Baseline of mining sector impacts   The sector Data Bank and Information Systems have NA
          assessment and improved capacity    been established 30 months after effectiveness
          for EIA monitoring
      8   Socially and economically           The sector strategic studies have been completed,       NA
          conflict-free industry              including i.a.: (a) Utilization of natural gas; (b)
                                              Promotion strategy for exploration of available blocks;
                                              (c) Economic
                                              model and operators’ costs report; and (d)
                                              Preparatory studies of the Law for Petroleum
                                              Revenue
      9   35 subprojects created before        NA                                                     NA
          project end
     10   At least 5 new economic activities  NA                                                      NA
          identified and feasibility studies
          completed in the
          Zouerate-Nouadhibou corridor
     11   20% increase in average household NA                                                        NA
          income in the areas where local
          economic activities are implemented



b. M&E Implementation:

The ICR indicates that data collection has been generally effective and broadly adequate. A number of straightforward
indicators were used to report insufficient progress during implementation in the ISRs. However, the ICR also reported
(page 35) that for some period of time (2006-09), detailed comments and recommendations contained in the
aide-memoires following the supervision mission were not fully reflected in the ISRs. Weakness in M&E
implementation was a handicap for the Bank team to provide evidence on efficacy achieved in general, and before the
project restructuring in 2011 in particular.

c. M&E Utilization:

The M&E system in the 2003 PAD was rudimentary, but was stepped up during the 2011 restructuring. The ICR did
not shed light on how the M&E system was used to monitor progress in project implementation. However, given the
close collaboration between the Bank team, the PCU and the ministries and agencies active in the EI, it is assumed
that informal or formal M&E utilization took place in one way or another, to allow all the adjustments that took place
during project implementation to happen.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

This was a Category B technical assistance project which was not expected to generate immediate social or
environmental safeguards. However, the project could induce the development of mining and oil activities, and in that
sense, potential environmental and social impact needed to be assessed and an environmental management plan
designed. Consequently, three safeguard policies were triggered at approval: (i) an environmental assessment, (ii)
natural habitats, and (iii) involuntary resettlements.

A key component of the project included training and institutional strengthening of staff from the Ministry of Petroleum,
Energy and Mines in the area of environmental and social management and enforcement. The creation of Police of
Mines and an Environmental Unit for hydrocarbon sector oversight testify the stronger institutional capacity. Project
activities with identified safeguard risks (micro-projects and School of Mines) complied with framework procedures
which were designed during project preparation. The School of Mines is implementing a mitigation and management
plan for impacts caused by construction work. All micro-projects were screened against a rapid assessment
framework.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

The ICR reported that the project coordinating Unit (PCU) was particularly diligent with respect to compliance with
fiduciary aspects. It also reported that there were no significant problems in procurement, disbursements or financial
management. However it did not indicate if there was an unqualified report on the project accounts by an external
oversight body.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately         Relevance of objective was initially
                                                            Satisfactory       substantial, but was high after
                                                                               restructuring, while relevance of design
                                                                               improved from modest to substantial.
                                                                               Efficacy was substantial before and
                                                                               after restructuring, but attribution
                                                                               remains an issue, and efficiency was
                                                                               modest.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately         Political risks were ignored at appraisal,
                                                            Satisfactory       but in hindsight, implementation was
                                                                               affected by political and institutional
                                                                               instability. Revenue and fiscal
                                                                               management issues were omitted in the
                                                                               project design, and ISRs did not reflect
                                                                               the content of conclusions of
                                                                               supervision missions.

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately         Institutional and political instability
                                                            Satisfactory       made the dialogue and the project
                                                                               implementation costly in time and
                                                                               resources
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

Two lessons are drawn from the ICR and are rephrased below:
(i) Reforms in sensitive sectors like EI are achieved only after sustained engagement, not through a “one-shot” 4-5
year project. The persistent support also allows an opportunistic approach which can ultimately bring about
changes in sensitive matters when the time is ripe.

(ii) Leverage for change is not directly linked to the volume of financing brought by the donors. Through its
sustained efforts in policy dialogue and capacity building, the Bank has contributed to major institutional and
structural changes in Mauritanian EI, which could not have been achieved through an engagement with larger
resources to the single state-owned entity.

Three other lessons were identified by IEG as follows:

(iii) The assessment of programmatic TA operations should address differently the attribution of the results
achieved on the ground. The outcome and results of this project cannot be disentangled from the contribution of the
previous project, and that of donors who were active in the same sector of the country. In the future, the design and
the M&E of the results framework should pay more attention to how to capture the outcome of one specific
operation, or to carry out a joint assessment.

(iv) Trade off between a comprehensive, and a selective and progressive approach in reforming the mining sector
should be considered when designing operations supporting the extractive industry. This project has adopted a
selective reform approach, which has had the merit of accommodating the conditions of the borrower, notably by
providing additional funding to cater for petroleum sub-sector, and the School of mines. However, the
modernization of the revenue and fiscal management was left aside, and is set to be reformed in a successor
operation.

(v) A stable Bank team is more effective in country dialogue and project supervision. The performance of this
project is principally due to the stability of the Bank team, which was able to maintain a continuous dialogue with the
borrower in good and harder times, and to act upon the borrower priorities over a longer period by taking all
opportunities to refine the project.




14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


 The ICR is satisfactory at the margin. It provides a comprehensive story related to the project design, and its
implementation, with special attention to the outputs generated under each component. There was an attempt to
separate outputs generated by PRISM I and PRISM II, but this exercise was not done with regard to the projects'
outcome. The ICR also carried out a split assessment of the project, which lacked depth.

Weaknesses of the ICR included the following: (i) the contribution of other donors was not developed enough, (ii) the
reporting on the disbursed amounts was not accurate, as there was a discordance among figures in the ICR, and (iii)
project efficiency was a repetition of the material used to illustrate the project efficacy.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
