Report No. PID6016
Project Name                     China-Irrigated Agriculture (+)
Intensification II Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       CNPE49700
Implementing Agencies            State Office for Comprehensive
Agriculture Development, Ministry of
Finance; and the provinces of Hebei,
Henan, Shandong, Jiangsu and Anhui
Initial/Updated PID Date         July 31, 1997
Tentative Appraisal Date         June 1998
Tentative Board Date             October 1998
Background
1.      Feeding China's vast and growing population is a continuing
major challenge for the Government of China (GOC). Present annual
consumption of grains is about 480 million tons and is expected to
grow to about 700 million tons by the year 2020. This is not only
due to the increasing population but also to the increased per
capita consumption of grain due to an increasing meat consumption
as incomes rise. The Ninth 5-year plan which covers the period from
1996-2001 has the objective of increasing grain production from
about 450 million tons to 500 million tons. Large increases in
cotton, oils and other products are also mandated. The State Office
of Comprehensive Agricultural Development (SOCAD) in the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) has a major funding responsibility in promoting the
accomplishment of these goals.
2.      With 22% of the world's population, China has only 7% of the
arable land. In addition, encroachment of urban and industrial
areas continually reduces the land available for agricultural
production. These circumstances require increasingly intensive use
of existing arable lands. The productivity of irrigated land
averages twice that of rainfed land, irrigated production is more
reliable, and irrigated yield potentials are generally higher.
Irrigation is a key prerequisite for increasing productivity, and
areas under irrigation have more than doubled from 20 to 50 million
hectares since 1949. Nationally, irrigation accounts for about 70
percent of the total grain output and about 80 percent of fruits and
vegetables, and almost all of the future increases in grain
production will be on irrigated lands. In some areas, flood
control, drainage and salinity mitigation are also essential for
raising agricultural productivity. Drainage works are essential to
allow cultivation of low-lying areas subject to waterlogging and
salinization. So far, drainage works have helped control
waterlogging on 19 million hectares and have reclaimed 4.8 million
hectares of saline land.



3.      The North China Plain comprising portions of the provinces of
Hebei, Henan, Shandong, Jiangsu, Anhui, is the major grain basket of
China. It relies on irrigated agriculture to achieve high
sustainable yields. Although large areas of these provinces have
irrigation and drainage systems, land development and agricultural
services, large tracts of land remain to be improved and adequately
developed. Many irrigation and drainage systems are several decades
old, have suffered from inadequate maintenance due to lack of
resources, and are now in need of rehabilitation. Consequently, the
performance of these systems is gradually degrading. In addition,
many were built to relatively low design and construction standards,
and for most, the secondary and tertiary systems were never fully
completed, and in some cases never built at all. Relatively modest
investments in improvement and completion of these systems can yield
high returns. Critical needs include: (a) irrigation infrastructure
rehabilitation and completion; (b) conjunctive use of ground and
surface water; (c) drainage and salinity control; (d) on-farm land
improvements and irrigation and drainage system improvements; and
(e) improvements in agricultural services such as quality seed
development and dispersion, improved mechanization and improved
agricultural extension.
4.      A key issue for the irrigation subsector is how to pay for
irrigation investments and make them sustainable, and how to
increase local participation and "ownership" in irrigation. In
addition to substantial improvement in irrigation facilities and
increases in agriculture production, there is a strong need for
institutional reform which would address this issue, and the need
for this reform is strongly supported by the Ministry of Water
Resources. The concept of self-financing irrigation and drainage
districts was developed under the Bank-financed Yangtze Basin Water
Resources Project with the support of the Ministry to implement a
number of these key policies in the irrigation subsector such as:
(a) the user pays principle; (b) decentralization of services
delivery; (c) market oriented development; (d) treating water as an
economic good; and (e) participation of water users. To date,
results from SIDD establishment under the Yangtze Project have been
highly positive, and the concept is strongly supported by the two
provincial governments (Hunan and Hubei) and the farmers under the
project. Implementation of these policies under the SIDD concept
would pave the way for eventual independence of critical irrigation
services from government budget constraints and uncertainties, and
reduce the financial burden on the government.
5.      The first Irrigated Agriculture Intensification Project (IAIL
1), partially financed by the World Bank has been highly successful
in implementing an integrated comprehensive approach to improved
irrigation and drainage systems, land improvement, land reclamation
and improved agriculture. The implementation of IAIL 1 was
completed in June, 1997, and preliminary results indicate the
sustainable increases in grain production of some 3.9 million tons
in the provinces of Shandong, Jiangsu and Anhui will be its result.
The project has consistently been rated highly successful, with a
projected Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of over 30% at full
development.
-2-



6.      Because of the success of IAIL 1 and because of a shortfall in
financing available to achieve the five-year plan objectives, GOC
has requested the World Bank to help finance a second phase
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification Project (IAIL 2). GOC also
intends to utilize the technical and managerial experience from IAIL
1 and IAIL 2 to improve the overall program for Comprehensive
Agriculture Development under SOCAD.
Project Objectives
7.      The Government's primary objectives for the agriculture and
water resources sectors in relation to the IAIL 2 project are to:
(a) increase agricultural production; (b) encourage more efficient
use of land and water resources; and (c) promote financial self-
sufficiency and cost recovery for long-run sustainability of
irrigation and drainage systems.
8.      The project's objectives are to: (a) increase agricultural
production; (b) increase farmers' incomes; and (c) establish
mechanisms for sustainable use, development and management of water
and land resources in irrigated areas in the North China Plain, the
most important agricultural production region in China.
Project Description
9.      The project would be implemented and benefit some 1.5 million
hectares in 131 counties involving 26 prefectures in five provinces
- Shandong, Jiangsu, Anhui, Henan and Hebei. The primary components
of the project in all of these areas would be:
(a)     Improvements in irrigation and drainage systems, and land
improvements such as leveling, squaring of fields, deep plowing and
green manure incorporation on 900,000 hectares of presently
irrigated low-yield lands.
(b)     Expansion of irrigation and drainage systems, and land
improvements on 600,000 hectares of presently non-irrigated
agricultural lands.
(c)     Agriculture support services in the same areas for seed
and fertilizer provision, mechanization, research and extension.
(d)     Forestation in the same areas to provide windbreaks as
well as forest products, mainly wood.
(e)     Institutional development for establishing and strengthening a
program approach for irrigated agriculture development, and
development of self-financing irrigation and drainage districts (SIDDs).
10.     The project would be designed to increase agricultural
production and rural incomes through improvement and completion
works for existing irrigation and drainage systems, productivity
increases in existing low-yield farmland and efficient development
of underutilized non-irrigated agricultural land. The project would
incorporate institutional measures to improve the management and
- 3 -



sustainability of irrigation and drainage systems through
establishment and support of self-financing irrigation and drainage
districts (SIDDs) based on farmer participation. Main storage,
diversion, conveyance and drainage facilities would be managed by
Water Supply Corporations (WSCs) which would be organized to manage
all main system irrigation, drainage and water supply facilities
within an irrigation area. Water User Associations (WUAs) would be
established by farmers based on hydraulic boundaries, to take over
operation and maintenance of secondary and tertiary irrigation and
drainage systems. The WSCs and WUAs would be self-financing through
water charges paid by farmers to WUAs which in turn pay WSCs for
bulk water deliveries using a part of the water charge collections.
Agricultural support services would be strengthened to further
promote agricultural productivity.
11.     The project would be implemented by the county and prefecture
governments under the management of the Provincial Offices of
Comprehensive Agricultural Development (POCADs). SOCAD would be
responsible for overall program management, supervision and coordination.
12.     Project Costs and financing. The total project cost is
estimated to be $850 million, with the water conservation and land
improvement component accounting for about 66%, the agricultural
support services component about 259, the forestation component
about 5% and the institutional development component about 4%.    The
project would be financed by a proposed IBRD loan of $300 million
(35.3%), and local counterpart funding equivalent to $550 million (64.7%).
Project Management Structure
13.     Project management would be partially based on the successful
implementation structure developed under earlier Bank projects
including the first Irrigated Agriculture Intensification Project
(IAIL 1) and partially on the existing government Comprehensive
Agriculture Development Program, with some modifications. At the
Central level a PMO would be set up within the existing State Office
for Comprehensive Agriculture Development (SOCAD). At the
provincial (POCAD), prefecture and county levels, PMOs would be set
up within the existing Comprehensive Agricultural Development
Program Offices. Provincial Water Resources Bureaus would be
represented in the POCAD PMOs. Leading groups would also be set up
at the central, provincial, prefecture and county levels. The SOCAD
PMO would be responsible for overall project coordination and
financing. The POCAD and prefecture PMOs would be responsible for
overseeing project design, execution and supervision; as well as
coordination and financing. The county PMOs would be responsible
for project implementation. The PMOs would have participation from
the finance, water resources and agriculture bureaus, and from the
planning commission. These bureaus and commission would be
responsible for ensuring that their governmental responsibilities
are carried out and technical standards are met during project
design, implementation and operation.
14.     SOCAD and the Comprehensive Agriculture Development Offices at
the province, prefecture and county levels would be strengthened to
- 4 -



develop and implement a program approach to irrigated agriculture
investment and development. This would include: (a) establishment of
agreed standards, criteria and objectives, and development of
policy, guidelines and manuals; and (b) in accordance with these
policies, guidelines, manuals and procedures, develop procedures for
and assist in preparation of project proposals, review and approval
of project proposals, preparation and approval of financing plans
for project implementation, supervision of project implementation,
commissioning and transfer of completed projects to operating
entities, and monitoring of operating projects. A key objective of
the project that will be integrated into the program approach is the
establishment and support of a self-financing irrigation and
drainage district (SIDD) in each irrigation scheme (district) which
would take over all operational, administrative and financial
responsibilities for the scheme after its completion. An SIDD would
comprise a WSC which would be responsible for operating and
maintaining main irrigation and drainage systems; and WUAs,
established and managed by the farmers to operate and maintain the
secondary and tertiary irrigation and drainage systems. The WSC
would supply water to WUAs in bulk, and to cities, towns and
industries and in some cases for generation of electricity. The
WUAs and other bulk water users would pay the WSCs for the water
delivery.   Early in project implementation (starting during project
preparation if possible), one pilot WSC and various WUAs would be
established in each province.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
15.     China has a long history of experience in irrigation and
drainage system development. However, for irrigation, they have
little experience with a program approach for irrigation investment
with donor funding and managed by a central agency (especially in
MOF), they have just started SIDD development following a
participatory approach under the Yangtze Project. Bank support for
these two initiatives can bring both know-how and pressure for
reform and for improved operation and maintenance and effective
farmer "ownership" and participation in the management of water
delivery systems. A comprehensive program approach for project
planning, design, implementation, and operation is needed with
appropriate systems for coordination, monitoring, evaluation and
supervision. The development of SIDDs for sustainable operation and
maintenance of irrigation and drainage systems is a fundamental and
much needed reform. The Bank is well positioned to assist the
central and provincial governments to effectively address these
problems while building on the considerable achievements of the IAIL
1 Project. The Bank also has developed substantial experience in
farmer participation in irrigation projects in China and in other
countries, which is critical to the success of SIDDs, and in the
program approach to irrigation investments.
16.     The development and implementation of a program approach to
irrigated agriculture development and management is strongly desired
by the Chinese government. China has an ongoing Comprehensive
Agriculture Development Program, but they recognize the importance
of improving the program which is one of the reasons they have
- 5-



requested Bank support through the IAIL 2 Project. The Bank will
provide considerable support in developing and implementing
procedures, guidelines and mechanisms to improve project planning,
design, implementation and operation, as well as increased
investment resources.
17.     The SIDD concept was developed under the Bank-financed Yangtze
Basin Water Resources Project presently under implementation and is
strongly supported by the Ministry of Water Resources. Results to
date are highly positive and indicate strong government support and
farmer enthusiasm for this reform. SIDD development is seen as a
potent mechanisms for implementing much needed reforms in the
irrigation subsector and embodies both Chinese and Bank water
resources policy. Although there is considerable support for SIDD
development under IAIL 2, the Bank's technical and institutional
support, leverage, and financial involvement is necessary for the
successful establishment of the SIDD institutions and mechanisms at
this early stage in their development in China.
18.     Poverty Alleviation.   Although the project would not be
targeted for poverty alleviation, the majority of the project
beneficiaries would be poor farmers who presently have low
agricultural production on low-yield and non-irrigated lands. Their
incomes would be significantly increased through the implementation
of the project.
19.     Lessons Learned.   The Bank has assisted in financing 14 water
resources and irrigation projects in China over the last 15 years.
These projects serve more than 4 million hectares. Generally, these
projects have been implemented efficiently, time and cost overruns
have not been excessive despite periods of sharp price escalation,
and rates of return have equaled or exceeded appraisal estimates. A
notable feature of these projects has been the increasing level of
local community involvement in planning, design and implementation.
The best performing projects have been where Water Resources Bureaus
at all administrative levels have had a leading role in project
design, planning and implementation.
20.     Bank post-project evaluations of projects have identified O&M,
water charges, financial autonomy and irrigators ownership as key
issues in irrigation system design and sustainability. Post-project
reviews have also identified (inter alia) strong government
commitment and ownership and beneficiary participation as main
reasons for good performance of irrigation projects. Other key
lessons from previous Bank financed water resources projects are
that: (a) detailed organizational and staff arrangements should be
formulated and agreed before implementation; (b) counterpart funding
should be committed before implementation; (c) project design should
support the "user pays" principle, and user (farmer) participation
should be explicitly built into project planning, implementation and
operation; (d) irrigation, drainage and flood protection investments
should include cost recovery from beneficiaries; (e) irrigation and
water conservancy projects should include provision for unified
irrigation system management based on the hydraulic (not
administrative) units; and (f) projects should include institutional
- 6 -



development support for the strengthening of provincial and local
Water Resources Bureaus.
21.     With regard to counterpart funding, experience from recent
projects shows that there are often difficulties in raising the
needed counterpart funds on time, especially at provincial and local
levels. Care should be taken during preparation to ensure that the
project financing plan is accurate and realistic, and that
arrangements for counterpart funding are secure. Clearly, the issue
of flow of counterpart funding and the timing of all resource
mobilization requirements must be carefully considered during
preparation and as part of project management. The provincial
Planning Commissions and Finance Bureaus have key roles to play in
this regard.
Participation
22.     Project area farmers would be consulted in the design of
irrigation and drainage system rehabilitation and expansion, as well
as of the land improvement and on-farm system improvements. Farmers
would form WUAs which would be responsible for the operation and
maintenance of secondary and tertiary irrigation and drainage
systems. Farmers would also be represented on the boards of
directors of WSCs.
Project Evaluation
23.     Environmental Aspects.   Project proposals will include
assessments of the expected environmental impact of the proposed
irrigation and drainage development, particularly with reference to
hydrological balances and water quality and the effects of project
development on them. These assessments will be carried out as a
part of feasibility studies for each of the subprojects.
24.     Project Benefits. The project would result in an increase in
the supply of agricultural products within project counties,
prefectures and provinces and within China as a whole. The project
would also result in an increase in per capita incomes for project
water users who would directly benefit from increased agricultural
production. Indirect benefits would flow to a larger group of
people within the project area because of the overall increase in
economic activity. The development and implementation of a program
approach to irrigated agriculture development will be a benefit for
the entire Comprehensive Agriculture Development Program, and
establishment and strengthening of SIDDs will result in sustainable
irrigation and drainage systems.
25.     Project Sustainability. Project sustainability hinges firstly
on the effectiveness of project management arrangements to produce
quality, innovative designs for project components and to assure
high quality of construction. Secondly, sustainability would be
determined by how effective the introduction of institutional
arrangements are in establishing effective and successful SIDDs.
The sustainability of the water conservation measures would be
addressed during preparation through adequate consideration of
- 7 -



operation and maintenance of project facilities after construction
including the self-financing of these activities through SIDD development.
26.     Risks. The risks to the linkage between project outputs and
project objectives are whether: (a) product prices are maintained in
real terms; (b) institutional capacity is sufficient to manage
project activities; (c) farmers have sufficient incentives for land
improvements, loan repayment and to take over O&M of project
facilities; (d) SIDD (WSCs and WUAs) will be established and
operated as planned to take over management of irrigation and
drainage systems, with full government support; (e) water charges
will be raised sufficiently to cover self-financing costs to ensure
adequate O&M and make WSCs and WUAs financially viable; (f) WSCs and
WUAs will be made permanent legal entities; and (g) WSCs and WUAs
will adequately take over O&M responsibilities. The risks
associated with the achievement of project outputs are whether: (a)
key inputs such as fertilizer and construction materials will be
available when needed; (b) subproject preparation and supervision
will be adequate; (c) counterpart funding is available and on time;
and (d) extraordinary floods or droughts occur.
Contact Point:           Richard Reidinger
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: 202 458-4065
Fax No.:                 202 522-1561
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 20, 1998.
- 8 -



ANNEX
ENVIRONMENTAL
Major Environmental Issues
None
Other Environmental Issues
There is a need for monitoring and control of water quality
related to irrigated agricultural improvements; and (b) adequate
drainage to control water table levels and secondary soil salinity.
Justification/Rational for Environmental Category
The project has been assigned a Category B.
The project would have no major environmental impacts.
Development would be within existing areas of irrigated agriculture.
New land is non-irrigated agricultural land or abandoned irrigated
land because of lack of water, water logging or salinization. Care
should be taken to ensure that all project developments are done in
an environmentally sound and sustainable manner.
Reporting Schedule
Preliminary environmental assessments for each of the
subproject areas will be presented to and reviewed by the
preparation mission in September 1997. The mission will provide
recommendations for improvements to the assessments which will be
revised and submitted to the Bank by the end of November 1997.
Government will also prepare an environmental management plan which
will be reviewed in draft form during the September mission and
revised and submitted to the bank by November, 1997.
-9-



