Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17226-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUTMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US $300 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR AN
IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE INTENSIFICATION II PROJECT
May 1, 1998
Rural Development & Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and the Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 1998)
Currency Unit = Renminbi Yuan (Y)
Y 8.3 = US$
US$0.12 = Y
FISCAL YEAR
January -December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AB            Agriculture Bureau
CAD           Comprehensive Agriculture Development
CATEC         County Agro-technical Extension Center
COCAD         County Office of Comprehensive Agriculture Development
CPMO          Central Project Management Office
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FB            Finance Bureau
FMS           Financial Management System
FRB           Forestry Bureau
GOC           Government of China
MOA           Ministry of Agriculture
MOCAD         Municipal/Prefecture Office of Comprehensive Agriculture Development
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MWR           Ministry of Water Resources
NEPA          National Environmental Protection Agency
O&M           Operation and Maintenance
OCC           Opportunity Cost of Capital
OFD           On-farmn Development
OFW           On-farm Works
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PMO           Project Management Office
POCAD         Provincial Office of Comprehensive Agricultural Development
PPMO          Provincial Project Management Office
PPC           Provincial Planning Commission
SIDD          Self-Financing Irrigation Drainage District
SOCAD         State Office of Comprehensive Agricultural Development
TA            Technical Assistance
WRB           Water Resource Bureau
WSC           Water Supply Corporation
WUA           Water Users' Association
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director: Yukon Huang
Sector Manager: Geoffrey Fox
Task Manager: Richard Reidinger



China
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objectives                                           2
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators     2
B. Strategic Context                                                        2
1. Sector-related CAS goals supported by the project                 2
2. Main sector issues and Govemment strategy                         2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices  3
C. Project Description Summary                                              4
1. Project components                                                4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project     7
3. Benefits and target population                                    7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                     7
D. Project Rationale                                                        10
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection         10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank                       12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design           13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                   13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                       14
E. Summary Project Analyses                                                  15
1. Economic                                                          15
2. Financial                                                         17
3. Technical                                                          18
4. Institutional                                                     20
5. Social                                                            20
6. Environmental assessment                                          21
7. Participatory approach                                            21
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                 22
1. Sustainability                                                    22
2. Critical risks                                                    23
3. Possible controversial aspects                                    23
G. Main Loan Conditions                                                     24



1. Effectiveness conditions                                         24
2. Covenants                                                        24
3. Conditions of Negotiations                                       28
4. Disbursement Conditions                                          28
H. Readiness for Implementation                                            28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                           28
Annexes
Annex 1      Project Design Summary
Annex 2      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4      Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5      Financial Summary
Annex 6      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A      Project Costs by Procurement Methods
Table B      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C      Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8      Documents in Project File
Annex 9      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10     Country at a Glance
Maps
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project      - IBRD 29572
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project - Hebei  - IBRD 26598
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project - Shandong  - IBRD 29599
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project - Henan  - IBRD 29600
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project - Jiangsu  - IBRD 29601
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project - Anhui  - IBRD 29602



East Asia Regional Office
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Management Unit
Project Appraisal Document
China
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
Date: May 1, 1998                                  Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Richard Reidinger
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang              Sector Manager/Director: Geoffrey Fox
Project ID: CN-PE-49700  Sector: Agriculture/Irrigation  Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustain. Dev.
Lending Instrument: SIL                            Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ I  Yes [X] No
Project Financing Data                 [XI Loan   I[ Credit   [I Guarantee         [I Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): IBRD Loan, $300 million
Proposed terms:                           []   Multicurrency      [X]        Single currency  USD
Grace period (years):  5          [    Standard Variable   [     Fixed   [X] LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: .75%
Service charge:  %
Source                             Local               Foreign           Total
Government (provincial/local)                          300.0                     0        300.0 (35%)
Cofinanciers
IBRD                                                                           300.0       300.0 (35%)
IDA
Other (Farmers)                                         249.3                              249.3 (30%)
Total                              549.3                 300.0        849.3 (100%)
Borrower: People's Republic of China
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): SOCAD and Provinces of Hebei, Henan, Shandong, Jiangsu and Anhui
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):        1999     2000    2001       2002     2003
Annual    35.3      77.2    74.1       73.0     40.4
Cumulative    35.3    112.5   186.6      259.6    300.0
Project implementation period: 1998-2002  Expected effectiveness date: 09/15/1998  Expected closing date: 12/31/03
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objectives
The objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) increase agricultural production; (b) increase
farmers' incomes; and (c) establish mechanisms for sustainable use, development and management of water
and land resources in irrigated areas in the Huang-Huai-Hai Plain, the most important agricultural
production region in China. Although the project is not specifically poverty-targeted, it would benefit some
low income areas which suffer from lack of water or partial irrigation by providing facilities for full
irrigation, improved agriculture support services, and forest products production which will raise incomes
substantially. Key performance indicators include completion of irrigation and drainage works, improved
agriculture support, increased forestation, increased grain production and farm income, more efficient
water and fertilizer use, and improved operation and maintenance of irrigation facilities and systems.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: No. 16321-CHA   Date of latest CAS discussion: 3/18/97
The LIAL 2 Project would support the Bank Group Strategies to: (a) promote continued
development of sustainable techniques to upgrade marginal land; (b) alleviate poverty (in some areas); (c)
incorporate major water storage, transfer, irrigation, drainage and flood control investments into projects;
and (d) support rational and sustainable food security programs.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Feeding China's vast and growing population is a continuing major challenge for the Government
of China (GOC). Present annual consumption of grains is about 480 million tons and is expected to grow
to about 700 million tons by the year 2020. This is due not only to the increasing population, but also to
increased per capita consumption of grain, particularly as a result of increased meat consumption as
incomes rise. The Ninth Five Year Plan (1996-2001), has the objective of increasing domestic grain
production from about 450 million tons to 500 million tons. In 1996 production had reached some 480
million tons. Large increases in cotton, oils and other products are also planned. The proposed IAIL 2
project would contribute substantially to meeting the Ninth Plan production target.
The State Office of Comprehensive Agricultural Development (SOCAD) in the Ministry of
Finance (MOF), through its Comprehensive Agricultural Development (CAD) Program, is the primary
implementing agency for meeting national strategic targets for food production and -has major funding
responsibility in promoting the accomplishment of these goals. The Program is supported by 18 different
ministries. Since its inception 10 years ago, the Program has invested a total of Y 58 billion, contributed in
approximately equal shares by the Center (SOCAD), local governments, and farmer beneficiaries, and
under the Ninth Plan an additional Y 76.8 billion would be invested. Under the proposed project, which
would finance only about 10 percent of the total Program, the Bank loan would finance about 35 percent of
project costs and cover the Central Government's contribution. Local governments and farmers would
repay to SOCAD half the amount of the Bank loan.
With 22 percent of the world's population and only 7 percent of the arable land, it is critical for
China to continue to raise agricultural productivity. In addition, as population grows and development
proceeds, encroachment of urban and industrial areas is continually reducing the land available for
agricultural production. These circumstances require increasingly intensive use of existing arable lands.
To increase cropping intensities, about half of China's 100 million ha of cultivated land is currently
irrigated. The productivity of irrigated land averages twice that of rainfed land and is more reliable. Areas
under irrigation have more than doubled, from 20 to 50 million hectares since 1949. Nationally, irrigated
land produces about 70 percent of the total grain output and about 80 percent of all fruits and vegetables.



Page 3
Almost all of the future increases in grain production will be on irrigated lands. In some areas, flood
control, drainage and salinity mitigation are also essential for raising agricultural productivity. Drainage
works are essential to allow high productivity in cultivation of low-lying areas subject to waterlogging and
salinization, and for the long-run sustainability of irrigated agriculture. So far, drainage works have helped
control waterlogging on 19 million hectares and have reclaimed 4.8 million hectares of saline land.
The Huang-Huai-Hai Plain, the location of the proposed project, comprises portions of the
provinces of Hebei, Henan, Shandong, Jiangsu, and Anhui and is China's major grain basket. It relies on
irrigated agriculture to achieve high, sustainable yields. Although large areas of these provinces have
irrigation and drainage systems, land development and agricultural services, much of this area needs
improvements and large tracts of land remain to be improved and adequately developed. Many irrigation
and drainage systems are several decades old, have suffered from inadequate operation and maintenance
(O&M) due to lack of resources, and are now in need of rehabilitation. Consequently, the performance of
these systems is gradually deteriorating. In addition, many systems were built to relatively low design and
construction standards, and for most, the secondary and tertiary systems were never fully completed, and in
some cases never built at all. Relatively modest investments in the improvement and completion of these
systems can yield high returns. Critical needs include: (a) irrigation infrastructure rehabilitation and
completion; (b) use of both ground and surface water together (conjunctive use); (c) drainage and salinity
control; (d) on-farm land improvements and irrigation and drainage system improvements; (e) improved
O&M; and (f) improvements in agricultural services such as high quality seed development, improved
mechanization and improved agricultural extension. The proposed project would include investments im
these critical areas, coordinated by SOCAD.
The key issues for sustainability in the irrigation subsector are how to pay for irrigation and
drainage improvement investments and O&M; how to achieve more efficient, unified management of
irrigation systems; how to increase local participation and "ownership" in irrigation; and how to design,
implement, operate and maintain irrigation investments to consistently higher technical and institutional
standards. In addition to substantial improvements in irrigation facilities and increases in agriculture
production, institutional reforms are required to correct these shortcomings. The need for institutional
reforms is strongly supported by the Ministry of Water Resources (MWR). Under the Bank-financed
Yangtze Basin Water Resources Project, the concept of self-financing irrigation and drainage districts
(SIDDs) was developed with MWR support to help promote key reforms in the irrigation subsector. These
include: (a) the user pays principle; (b) decentralization of services delivery; (c) market oriented
development; (d) treating water as an economic good; and (e) the participation of water users. To date,
results from SIDD establishment under the Yangtze Basin Project have been highly positive, and the
concept is strongly supported by the two provincial governments (Hunan and Hubei) and the farmers
participating in the project. Further implementation of these policies under the SIDD concept would reduce
the financial burden on the government, and pave the way for eventual independence of critical irrigation
services from government budget constraints and uncertainties. Under IAIL 2, a program approach would
be established under SOCAD to help upgrade investment criteria and institutional standards, and SIDD
reforms would be integrated into SOCAD's program approach for IAIL 2 and spread to the five project
provinces.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Agricultural Production. A major constraint for increasing production from irrigated agriculture
in the Huang-Huai-Hai Plain is the low quality and incompleteness of many of the existing irrigation and
drainage systems and on-farm development. The proposed project would rehabilitate and upgrade existing
irrigation systems mainly through investments in technical improvements for secondary and tertiary
irrigation and drainage networks, on-farm development, land and soil improvement, and institutional
support and development. To maximize the benefits from irrigation and drainage investments and make
best use of the improved lands, agriculture services would be strengthened and forestation would be carried



Page 4
out in the project areas.
Upgrading Irrigation Investment Standards through a Program Approach. The proposed
project presents an opportunity for the Bank to help promote a comprehensive programmatic approach to
improving irrigation investment and development standards in China. Overall, JAIL 2 would account for
only about 10 percent of the total Comprehensive Agriculture Development (CAD) Program for the Ninth
Five Year Plan. It is expected, however, that the improvements in procedures for planning, designing,
implementing, financing and operating irrigation and drainage systems, and the extension of SIDD concepts
and benefits, will increase the economic efficiency and overall sustainability of irrigation investments, and
eventually expand nationwide through the Comprehensive Agriculture Development Program.
Improving Irrigation Management and Sustainability through SIDD Development. A major
problem faced by almost all irrigation and drainage systems in China is inadequate O&M which is due
primarily to insufficient government budget and low water charges. It is also due to lack of direct farmer
participation and a feeling of ownership in project design, implementation, and management. This has
resulted in a vicious cycle of new investment, system deterioration, and then rehabilitation of irrigation and
drainage systems. The project would incorporate SIDD concepts as an institutional measure to strengthen
the sustainability and self-financing of irrigation O&M and irrigated agriculture, make irrigation
management more efficient and responsive to users, promote increased participation of farmers in
management decisions, and improve irrigation system performance. SIDDs would also enable effective
decentralization of irrigation services, and better cost recovery. Field results from SIDD reforms under the
Yangtze Basin Project indicate substantial yield increases, reduced water use, reduced labor for water
management, elimination of conflicts, improved and more cost-effective tertiary system design and layout,
increased management responsibility and accountability, and improved cost recovery for O&M.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Summary Project Description. The main activities of the project would be to construct and
improve the field water distribution facilities in existing irrigation districts and to improve the low- and
medium-yield farmland in the five provinces of Hebei, Henan, Shandong, Jiangsu and Anhui in the Huang-
Huai-Hai Plain of China.  The project would  also include comprehensive measures in water
resources/irrigation, agriculture and forestation to support optimum benefits from the above investments,
and it would promote environmental protection for major lakes and groundwater in the project area. The
main components of the project include the following:
(a)    Construction of farmland irrigation water distribution facilities, rehabilitation and improvement of
irrigation and drainage pumping stations and power-driven wells, spreading of water-saving irrigation
technologies, increasing the area of irrigated land, and enhancing the reliability rate of irrigation and
drainage standards in the project area. These improvements would be implemented over an existing
irrigation area of about 1,534,700 ha.
(b)    Land leveling and improvement and soil improvement, including support for increased use of
organic and compound fertilizers. Farmland and soil improvement would be provided over 770,000 ha,
and the service delivery systems for agricultural technology, agricultural mechanization, compound
fertilizers, and improved seeds and varieties of crops at the county and township levels would be improved
and strengthened.
(c)    Establishment of shelter-forest networks for farmland. This would increase forest coverage of
farmland by about 30 percent, mainly in shelterbelts around fields and along canals.



Page 5
(d)    Expansion of the rural road network and rural electric network to promote the development of
agricultural production and the rural economy in the project areas, and to ensure adequate access to and
electrification of wells and pumping stations.
(e)    Promotion of the spread of both improved agricultural science and technology, and training of
farmers to enhance the levels of farmers' scientific farming technologies in the project area and promote
Integrated Pest Management (IPM).
(f)    Procurement of agricultural production materials, mainly chemical fertilizers, low-toxicity
pesticides, and plastic membranes (mulch) for agriculture, needed to increase agricultural input.
(g)    Support of institutional development through strengthening and development of a program
approach in SOCAD and POCADs; the promotion and establishment of SIDDs; development and
establishment of a modem, computerized management information system (MIS) for the project; and
establishment of a national MIS and training center for the CAD program. The program approach is
designed to meet both SOCAD and Bank requirements. SIDDs would be comprised of a Water Supply
Corporation (WSC) for management and O&M of the main irrigation system, and Water User Associations
(WUAs) established by farmers for construction, management and O&M of small canals and on-farm
systems. The MIS would incorporate the requirements of the project financial management system (FMS)
and could eventually be expanded to cover the country-wide SOCAD program.
Summary of Project Location and Scope. The project is located in the Huang-Huai-Hai Plain of
North-Central China, covering Hebei, Henan, Shandong, Jiangsu and Anhui provinces and the two
municipalities of Beijing and Tianjin. The Plain covers a total area of 333,500 sq. km and has some 16
million ha of medium- and low-yield land which can be upgraded. The five project provinces account for
about 37% of China's total farmland, and have a population of 373 million. The subproject areas in the
five provinces include a total of some 1050 townships in 131 counties (subprojects) in 28 prefectures and
cities: 33 counties in Shandong Province; 27 counties in Hebei Province; 27 counties in Henan Province;
24 counties in Jiangsu Province; and 20 counties in Anhui Province.
Summary of Project Components and Costs. Estimated project costs total Y 7.1 billion ($849.3
million), of which the Bank loan of $300 million would finance 35 percent. Summary project costs for
each component by province are as follows:



Page 6
Summary of Project Components and Costs
Component           Category   Investment   % of  Bank-      % of Bank-
Cost     Total  financing   financing
_US$M)            (US$M)
Irrigation and Drainage    Physical     470.69        65   141.90      30
-Anhui                                   86.35        12    26.82      31
- Hebei                                  80.70        11    26.40      33
- Henan                                 102.54        14    27.93      27
- Jiangsu                               104.89        14    31.49      30
- Shandong                               96.21        13    29.26      30
Agriculture Intensification    Physical,  139.21      19    68.45      49
& Services                Institution
-Anhui                    Building,      25.90         4    11.92      46
- Hlebei                  Management    22.88          3    11.23      49
- Henan                                  27.79         4    13.53      49
- Jiangsu                                31.28         4    17.66      56
- Shandong                               31.36         4     14.11     45
Afforestation, Environment   Physical    39.85         6    10.56      27
Protection and Monitoring
- Anhui                                   7.27         1      1.81     25
- Hebei                                   7.50         1      2.13     28
- Henan                                   8.73         1      2.47     28
- Jiangsu                                 6.36         1      1.67     26
- Shandong                                9.99         1      2.49     25
Institutional Development   Institution  46.70         6    30.22      65
& Support                 Building,
- Anhui                   Management      4.40         1      3.48     79
- Hebei                                   4.07         1      3.02     74
- Henan                                   7.95         1      4.59     58
- Jiangsu                                 7.27         1      4.32     59
- Shandong                                9.16         1      5.26     57
- SOCAD                                  13.85         2      9.55     69
Survey, Design &          Institution    25.42         4      3.81     15
Management                Building
- Anhui                   Management      4.40         1      0.66     15
- Hebei                                   3.79         1      0.57     15
- Henan                                   6.37         1      0.96     15
- Jiangsu                                 5.46         1      0.82     15
- Shandong                                5.41         1      0.81     15
Base Cost                               721.86       100   254.95      35
- Physical contingencies                 69.31        10    25.18      35
- Price contingencies                    56.57         8    19.87      35
Total Project Cost                      849.31       118   300.00      35
Note: Survey, Desig and Management includes research, studies, experiments and monitoring.



Page 7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would support Chinese government national policies under the Ninth Five Year Plan to
increase food production through comprehensive measures for agriculture development. It would also
support specific policies in the water resources sector, such as the user pays principle, strengthening of the
orientation towards a market economy, the transfer and decentralization of irrigation system management
to non-government entities, treatment of water as a conmnodity, improved cost recovery, and increased
participation of water users, through implementation of SIDDs under the project. In addition, it would
help strengthen SOCAD and related institutional entities and help to improve subproject selection,
preparation, appraisal, approval, implementation and monitoring and evaluation through a program
approach.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would generate the following benefits: (a) an increase in the supply of agricultural
products, including an increase of roughly 3.1 million tons of grain (rice, wheat, and corn), 1.1 million tons
of cash crops (mostly cotton, oilseeds and vegetables), and 1.3 million m3 of timber; (b) an increase of
about 30 percent in per capita net farm incomes at full development for some 4.5 million farm households
which would directly benefit from increased agricultural production under the project; (c) development and
implementation of a program approach to irrigated agriculture investment and development; and (d)
institutional strengthening and reform, including establishment of self-financing and self-managing
irrigation and drainage districts and farmer water user associations, which would reduce the burden of
irrigation on local governments. The primary beneficiaries of the project are the farmers in the project
areas, and farmers covered under the CAD Program elsewhere as the improved IAIL 2 criteria are spread.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project would have a 5-year implementation period. Project management and institutional
arrangements for implementation are as follows:
Project Management.  Project management would be based partially on the successful
implementation structure developed under earlier Bank projects including the first Irrigated Agriculture
Intensification Project (LIAL 1), and on the existing government Comprehensive Agriculture Development
(CAD) Program, with some modifications. At the State level a Central Project Management Office
(CPMO) has been set up and would be maintained satisfactory to the Bank within the existing State Office
for Comprehensive Agriculture Development (SOCAD). The CPMO would monitor and report on
subproject implementation and adherence to agreed program approach standards, guidelines and
procedures, and provide oversight and technical and policy guidance during project implementation.
At the provincial, municipality/prefecture, and county levels, Project Management Offices (PMOs)
have been established within the existing Comprehensive Agricultural Development Program offices. The
Provincial PMO (PPMO) is in the Provincial Office for CAD (POCAD) and would be maintained with
terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank, and with senior-level
representatives from the Water Resources, Agricultural and Forestry Bureaus. PPMOs would be fully
staffed by September 30, 1998. Similar PMOs have been established in the Municipal Offices for CAD
(MOCADs) and the County Offices for CAD (COCADs). Water resource investments account for about
70 percent of total project costs, and understandings have been reached with all the provinces that
Provincial Water Resources Bureau (WRB) representatives would be appointed as (at least) the deputy
directors of all PPMOs by June 30, 1998, and that PPMOs would use experts representing the Provincial
WRBs for supervision of water resource and SIDD components. Leading Groups comprised of members
from the Water Resources Bureau, Agriculture Bureau, Forestry Bureau, Finance Bureau, Planning
Commission, Environment Protection Bureau, and other concerned agencies, and chaired by a local
administration leader, have also been set up at the central, province, prefecture and county levels.



Page 8
CPMO would be responsible for overall project coordination and financing. The PPMOs and
prefecture PMOs would be responsible for overseeing project design, execution and supervision, as well as
for coordination and financing. The county PMOs would be responsible for project implementation and
arranging local labor and funding contributions. PMOs at all levels would have participation from the
Finance, Water Resources, Agriculture and Forestry Bureaus, and from the Planning Commissions. These
PMOs, bureaus and commissions would be responsible to ensure that their governmental responsibilities
are carried out during project design, implementation and operation. Line agencies would have sufficient
authority and a role in project management to help ensure that agreed technical and institutional standards
are met and maintained at all levels.
Financing Arrangements and Financial Management. Of the total estimated project cost of Y
7.1 billion (US$849-3 million), estimated Bank funding, all IBRD, would finance Y 2,490.1 million ($300
million). This would be the Central Government/SOCAD contribution to project financing. About Y
4,559.2 million ($549.3 million) would be financed by the governments (provincial and local) and the
farmers (see Financial Summary, Annex 5). Repayment of the Bank loan would be the responsibility of
the Central Government, which would recover 50 percent of the Bank loan from the five project provinces,
most of which is expected to be contributed by project beneficiaries. The details of the financial
arrangements have been agreed between the Central Government and the provinces, and would involve
onlending to the provinces at an annual interest rate of 1.2 percent accruing from the end of the grace
period, repayable over seven years with three years of grace and the foreign exchange risk to be bome by
SOCAD. Commitments by the provinces to provide adequate and timely counterpart funding have been
provided. In addition, MOF and SOCAD have a number of mechanisms to ensure financial cooperation of
the provinces in repayment of the Bank loan and provision of counterpart funding, and it is not expected
that supply of counterpart funding would be a problem during project implementation. To help ensure
adequate financing during implementation, POCADs would submit to SOCAD by November 1 of each
year, and SOCAD would submit to the Bank by November 30 of each year, the annual work programs and
financial plans and budgets (in detail for each province) for implementation during the following year,
including evidence from the provinces of adequate and timely counterpart funding, and the provinces would
carry out implementation according to the work programs and financial plans.
To help strengthen financial management of the project and the CAD program, the project also
includes the establishment of an improved Financial Management System (FMS) and a modem
computerized management information system (MIS). Plans, procedures and guidelines for the FMS,
including financial control, accounting and auditing, have been assessed by the Bank and are satisfactory.
Guidelines for the FMS to be followed during implementation have been confirmed, are detailed in Annex
10 of the Borrower's Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and have been incorporated into the program
approach procedures. Plans also include strengthening of SOCAD and POCADs financial management
capacity, through adequate financial staff, training and equipment, and provision of additional qualified
financial management staff in SOCAD.  Separate records and accounts for the project would be
maintained. Project records and accounts including the Special Account and statements of expenditure for
each fiscal year would be audited, and the annual audit report for each fiscal year would be submitted to
the Bank by July 1 of the following year. The State Audit Bureau has been selected as the auditor for the
project. The MIS would be integrated with the project's FMS, and designed to support efficient financial
management and assist with monitoring and controlling the supply and flow of both Bank and counterpart
funds. The pilot MIS would be established by December 31, 1999, and the full MIS by June 30, 2000.
The FMS/MIS would monitor plan versus actual implementation of the work plans and financial plans.
Institutional Responsibilities. The steps, procedures, and technical and institutional standards
and criteria for the program approach have been agreed, and the central and provincial implementing
agencies above would be responsible to follow them in carrying out the project. The program approach



Page 9
steps and procedures specify the allocation of institutional responsibilities. They also incorporate steps and
guidelines to meet Bank requirements, in particular for resettlement, dam safety, financial management,
procurement, and environment. The Bank appraised the first 20 subprojects to demonstrate the program
approach standards and criteria. SOCAD and the CAD offices at the province, prefecture, county and
township levels would be trained and strengthened to prepare, appraise, implement and supervise
subprojects according to these standards and criteria. An action plan for strengthening, training and
equipping of SOCAD's CPMO to prepare, appraise and supervise subprojects would be submitted to the
Bank by September 30, 1998 and carried out. Plans would include strengthening of the status of the
CPMO as an official unit, increase in CPMO staff by at least 10 staff, employment of expert consultants
having practical experience with World Bank projects in the field, and comprehensive training on LAIL 2
for SOCAD and CPMO staff.
For operation of the program approach, SOCAD/CPMO and all provincial CAD offices and
PMOs would be responsible to follow and/or implement: (a) the standards, criteria and objectives which
have been agreed; (b) the policies, guidelines and manuals for selection, preparation, appraisal, approval
and implementation of subprojects which have been prepared; and (c) procedures based on these policies,
guidelines, and manuals which have been prepared for: (i) selection, preparation, review, and approval of
subproject proposals; (ii) preparation and approval of subproject financing plans for subproject
implementation,; (iii) implementation and supervision of subprojects; (iv) commissioning and transfer of
completed subprojects to operating entities and fanners; and (v) monitoring of operating subprojects. The
program approach to be followed under the project is described in Annex 9 of the PIP document and
SOCAD files, and detailed in a separate program approach manual. The Program approach manual
includes guidelines and procedures for preparation, appraisal, supervision, conmmissioning, and operation of
subprojects by SOCAD, POCADs and lower levels, and incorporates both SOCAD and Bank
requirements. Under the program approach, subproject appraisal reports would be submitted for Bank
approval before construction, and a social assessment guideline which meets Bank requirements for
resettlement would be followed in subproject selection, design, preparation and implementation.
Implementation of the program approach criteria, steps, and procedures would be monitored and supported
by the MIS to be developed and installed under the project.
Along with the program approach, a key institutional objective of the project, for which SOCAD
and the provincial CAD offices are responsible, would be the establishment and support of SIDDs at
selected irrigation schemes (districts) covered by the project. SIDDs would take over all operational,
administrative and financial responsibilities for the schemes after completion of construction. At each
irrigation area where a SIDD is established, the WSC would operate and maintain the main irrigation and
drainage system, and WUAs established and managed by the farmers would operate and maintain the
secondary and tertiary irrigation and drainage systems. The WSC would supply water to WUAs in bulk,
and to cities, towns and industries, and in some cases for generation of electricity. The WUAs and other
bulk water users would pay WSCs for the measured volume of water delivered; i.e., for WUAs, at the
headgate(s) to the WUA irrigation areas. By September 30, 1998, pilot SIDDs comprising a WSC and at
least one WUA would be established in one irrigation district per province, and at least one pilot WUA
would be established in each prefecture/city under the project, to begin the process of SIDD learning and
implementation. These pilots would be for demonstration and model development purposes. They would
include model O&M and water user contracts between pilot WUAs and the pilot WSCs (or the operating
entity for the irrigation system where there is no WSC), which would be executed at the time of SIDD and
WViUA establishment; and provision for at least 40 percent representation by farmers and WUAs on the
WSC Boards of Directors. Specialized technical assistance would be used to help guide early development
of SIDDs and WUAs. Based on experience gained from these pilots, SIDDs and WUAs would be spread
to other irrigated areas under the project during implementation. In some areas, full SIDD development
may not be immediately possible, such as in irrigation districts where the project does not cover all the
counties served. In those areas, WUA establishment would be given priority. WUAs should be easier to



Page 10
establish compared to WSCs because current procedures for implementation of CAD are already similar to
WUA procedures, and much of the implementation would be through the townships where WUAs would be
located.
SIDD development has been integrated into the program approach steps and procedures and would
be funded under the project. Plans, timetable and budgets for SIDD development have been detailed in
draft provincial SIDD development plans, which would be revised following guidelines acceptable to the
Bank and submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1998. These plans would include the necessary
provisions for SIDDs to be successful and supported by the farmers, such as: preparation of model charters
and by-laws for WSCs and WUAs and model O&M and water delivery contracts between WSCs, WUAs,
VRBs and/or local governments; and preparation and adoption of provincial procedures for official WUA
registration and establishment, and for establishment of WSCs as non-profit legal entities under the
Companies Law of 1993. Provinces and local governments would transfer the farmers' "customary" labor
contribution required for irrigation O&M to WSCs and WUAs, transfer the right to collect water charges
to WSCs and WUAs, ensure that financial and policy support to SIDD areas would be maintained at
normal levels for irrigation areas, provide for each WSC to have a Board of Directors with at least 40
percent representation by farmers/WUAs, and develop plans to reassign redundant WRB staff after SIDDs
are established.
To help ensure the financial viability and sustainability of project irrigation investments and
especially SIDDs established under the project, it is important that collection of water charges be adequate
to cover full O&M costs (including major repairs) and if possible part of capital costs, and that water
charges collected be used for irrigation purposes. Under the project, the provinces would prepare by
September 30, 1999 schedules and timetables acceptable to the Bank for increasing water charges to cover
at least full O&M costs plus Bank loan repayment, review water charge rates every three years, keep
separate accounts for water charges collected, and use water charges exclusively for irrigation purposes.
Project Supervision, Monitoring and Reporting. SOCAD and POCADs would make plans for
semi-annual subproject supervision each year by qualified experts, carry out the supervision reviews, and
submit the supervision reports to the Bank within three months after the supervision. POCADs would
submit their supervision plans to SOCAD by November 1 of each year for the following year, and SOCAD
would submit the consolidated supervision plan to the Bank by November 30. Supervision reports would
be provided to the Bank within three months after each supervision. Supervision plans would include the
list of names of supervision staff and experts, and agreements with WRBs for supervision of water
resource and SIDD components. Supervision teams and reports should cover key monitoring indicators,
compare achievements to planned targets, identify problems and recommendations, and be coordinated with
Bank supervision missions. SOCAD would provide semi-annual progress reports to be submitted to the
Bank by March 31 and September 30 of each year; POCAD progress reports would be provided to
SOCAD by March 15 and September 15. SOCAD would also provide to the Bank by March 31 of each
year annual reports on the results of. monitoring and evaluation of project implementation and benefits
including base line surveys; monitoring reports on groundwater in Hebei, Henan and Shandong; and
environmental monitoring; POCAD annual reports would be provided to SOCAD by March 15. The Mid-
term Report for the Mid-term Review to be conducted jointly by the Bank and SOCAD/POCADs would be
provided to the Bank by December 31, 2000. The Mid-term Report would summarize the results of
monitoring and evaluation under the project, and include problems encountered during project
implementation, revised costs, and measures recommended to complete the project. The Borrower's
Implementation Completion Report for the project would be furnished to the Bank within six months of
project completion.



Page 1 1
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
China is requesting that the Bank help finance the Comprehensive Agriculture Development
Program to be implemented during the Ninth Five Year Plan. A project designed to cover about 10 percent
of the whole program in the entire country rather than about 35 percent of the program in the five provinces
of Henan, Hebei, Shandong, Jiangsu and Anhui was considered. This alternative was rejected because it
was decided that the Bank's value added would be greater if concentrated in a smaller, more compact area
with fewer provinces, and the proposed project would be easier to design, appraise, implement, and
supervise. The experience and program improvements developed in preparation and implementation of
IAIL 2 can be utilized to improve the overall SOCAD Program in the future, and possibly to expand
lending to future IAIL projects if so requested.
Other areas of the country were also considered, but it was decided that it would be more beneficial
and effective for the Bank to support a concentrated program in the Huang-Huai-Hai Plain which is the
most important, homogeneous, and concentrated agricultural region in the country. Other areas are too
diverse and more dispersed and would make the Bank's effectiveness and impact much less apparent. As
currently planned, the Bank-financed project would, in effect, take over much of the Comprehensive
Agriculture Development (CAD) Program in the five provinces, with the expectation that the improved
standards and reforms developed under the project would be implemented throughout those provinces and
potentially throughout the country.
Including main irrigation and drainage systems and large key works such as dams in the project, as
well as including secondary and tertiary systems was also considered. However, it was determined that
there were a large number of secondary and tertiary systems that needed rehabilitation or were yet to be
completed in the five provinces. By selecting schemes needing only a moderate amount of main system
improvement, the return on secondary and tertiary investment would be greater and quicker. The existing
main systems can be considered sunk costs. It should be noted that there will be a small amount of
rehabilitation and improvement of main systems where this is determined to be necessary for subproject
feasibility and where the costs are low and the benefits high.
A project design without strong emphasis on the program approach and SIDD development was
also considered. However, the project is very extensive, and a program approach is required to enable
effective Bank participation. Moreover, introduction of the program approach and SIDDs integrated into
the program approach under this particular project would help spread key improvements and reforms
throughout the sub-sector and is expected to have strong production and sustainability benefits.



Page 12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector                     Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-finance projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Rehabilitation and improvement of   North China Plain       Closed            N/A
irrigation and drainage systems and  Agriculture Project    12/31/87
agriculture services improvement      ($54.0 million)        N/A
Rehabilitation and improvement of   Shandong Agriculture    Closed            N/A
irrigation and drainage systems and  Development Project    1/31/94
agriculture services improvement     (SDR 82.5 million)      N/A
Rehabilitation and improvement of    Pishihang - Chaohu     Closed            N/A
irrigation and drainage systems and  Development Project    6/30/92
agriculture services improvement       ($92.7 million)       N/A
Rehabilitation and improvement of   Northern Irrigation     Closed            HS
irrigation and drainage systems     Project                12/31/97
($72.7 million)        S
Expansion of irrigation and water   Shaanxi Agriculture     Closed            HU
systems, agriculture support and agro-    Development Project  6/31/97
industries                           ($106.0 million)        HU
Rehabilitation and improvement of   Irrigated Agriculture     HS              HS
irrigation and drainage systems and  Intensification Project
agriculture services improvement      ($335.0 million)  ___      _
Rehabilitation and improvement of   Tarim Basin Project       S                S
irrigation and drainage systems and   (125.0 million)
improvements in environmental river
management
Rehabilitation and improvement of   Henan Agriculture         S                S
irrigation and drainage systems and  Development Project
agriculture services improvement     ($ 110. 0 million)
Rehabilitation and improvement of   Hebei Agriculture         S                S
irrigation and drainage systems, and  Development Project
expansion of agriculture services and  ($149.9 million)
agro-industries
Rehabilitation and improvement of   Yangtze Basin Water       S                S
irrigation and drainage systems, self-  Resources Project
financing irrigation and drainage districts    ($210.0 million)
and river basin management                             I               I                I



Page 13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank has assisted in financing 14 water resources and irrigation projects in China over the last
15 years, serving more than 4 million hectares of irrigated area. Generally, these projects have been
implemented efficiently, and time and cost overruns have not been excessive despite periods of sharp price
escalation. Likewise rates of return have equaled or exceeded appraisal estimates. A notable feature of
these projects has been the increasing level of local community involvement in planning, design, and
implementation. The projects in which the Water Resources Bureau at all administrative levels has been
fully responsible and accountable for project design, planning, and implementation of water conservancy
components have generally performed well.
The Operations Evaluation Department of the Bank has identified O&M, water charges, financial
autonomy and irrigators' ownership as key issues in irrigation system design and sustainability. The
Bank's Agricultural and Natural Resources Department, in its recent irrigation subsector portfolio quality
assurance review, identified (inter alia) strong government commitment and ownership and beneficiary
participation as important requirements for good performance of irrigation projects. Other key lessons
from previous Bank-financed water resources projects in China are that: (a) detailed organizational and
staff arrangements should be formulated and agreed before implementation; (b) counterpart funding should
be committed before implementation; (c) project design should support the "user pays" principle, and user
(farmer) participation should be explicitly built into project planning, implementation and operation; (d)
irrigation, drainage and flood protection investments should include cost recovery from beneficiaries; (e)
irrigation and water conservancy projects should include provisions for unified irrigation system
management based on hydraulic units and not on political or administrative boundaries; and (f) projects
should include institutional development support for the strengthening of provincial and local Water
Resources Bureaus.
Experience with SIDD development under the Yangtze Basin Project indicates that strong local
government support is necessary for successful SIDD development, and that specialized TA during
preparation and early implementation is important to help promote, teach and establish SIDD development
procedures before full implementation begins. During preparation of LIAL 2, local governments have
shown strong support, begun to implement SIDD development activities, already established a few pilot
WAUAs, provided for SIDD development funding in project budgets, and held special TA workshops on
SIDD development, and specialized SIDD TA has been provided to encourage and assist these efforts.
However, learning and preparation time for SIDD development under IAIL 2 was limited by the accelerated
preparation schedule for the project, and specialized TA will need to be continued during the early stages of
project implementation. Prelininary lessons from the Yangtze Project indicate that benefits from SIDD
development are high and justify these extra efforts.
Experience from recent projects in China shows that there are increasing difficulties in raising the
needed counterpart funds on time, especially at provincial and local levels. The project financing plan is
accurate and realistic, and SOCAD and the provinces have confirmed that secure arrangements for
adequate and timely counterpart funding have been made. The issue of flow of counterpart funding and the
timing of all resource mobilization requirements was considered during preparation, and included in the
project financial management plans, and will receive continued monitoring and attention from project
management during implementation. The Provincial Planning Commissions and Finance Bureaus have key
roles to play in this regard.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
For IAIL 2, the central, provincial, prefecture, and county PMOs have already been established
and are functioning. Intensive efforts have been carried out at all levels to prepare the project in an
adequate and timely manner. The provincial governments have demonstrated strong capability and



Page 14
commitment to implement successfully the JAIL 1 Project in Shandong, Jiangsu and Anhui, and have
successfully carried out the Henan Agricultural Development Project, Hebei Agricultural Development
Project, Shandong Agricultural Development Project, and the North China Plain Project, all of which are
similar to IAIL 2 and in the same region. During preparation, many millions of yuan were spent, and some
15,000 experts, administrators, and support personnel were mobilized by SOCAD, the line ministries, and
the provinces to undertake preparation work. On the basis of the preparation plans, a substantial amount
of implementation work has already begun under retroactive financing which started on November 1, 1997.
For SIDDs, project provinces and local governments have: (a) committed to strong support for the SIDD
concept; (b) included funding for SIDD development in project budgets; (c) prepared draft SIDD
development plans, procedures and schedules; (d) prepared SIDD studies and model by-laws and charters
for WSCs and WUAs; and (e) established pilot SIDDs and WUAs during project preparation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
China has a long historical experience in irrigation and drainage system development. However,
the country has little experience with a program approach for irrigation investment using international
funding and managed by a central agency (especially in the Ministry of Finance). Furthermore, SIDD
development utilizing a participatory approach was only recently introduced under the Yangtze Basin
Project, starting in 1995. Bank support for these two reform initiatives can bring both know-how and
impetus for reform, which should result in improved operation and maintenance, and effective farmer
"ownership" and participation in the management of water delivery systems. A comprehensive program
approach for project planning, design, implementation, and operation is needed, together with appropriate
systems for coordination, monitoring, evaluation, and supervision. The development of SIDDs for
sustainable operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage systems is a fundamental and much
needed reform. The Bank is well positioned to assist the central and provincial governments in effectively
addressing these problems while building on the considerable achievements of the IAIL 1 Project.
The development, implementation, and strengthening of a program approach to irrigated
agriculture development and management under the project is strongly supported by the Government of
China (GOC). China has an ongoing CAD Program, but GOC also recognizes the importance of
improving the program, which is one of the reasons they have requested Bank support for the JAIL 2
Project. Bank participation will provide considerable support in developing and implementing procedures,
guidelines and mechanisms to improve project planning, design, implementation and operation, as well as to
provide increased investment resources. The Bank also has experience in the use of a program approach
for irrigation investments, which can be used in the design and implementation of IAIL 2.
The SIDD concept was developed under the Bank-financed Yangtze Basin Project presently under
implementation, with strong support from the Ministry of Water Resources. Results to date are highly
positive and indicate strong government support and farmer enthusiasm for this reform.  SIDD
development under LAIL 2 is also seen as an effective vehicle for implementing much needed self-financing,
self-management and farmer participation reforms in the irrigation subsector and embodies both Chinese
and Bank water resources policy. Although there is considerable support for SIDD development under
IAIL 2, the Bank's technical and institutional support, specialized experience, leverage, and financial
involvement are necessary for the successful establishment and spread of SIDD institutions and
mechanisms at this early stage in their development in China. The Bank also has substantial experience
with farmer participation in irrigation projects in other countries, as well as some experience in China,
which can assist successful implementation of SIDDs under LAIL 2.



Page 15
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file; see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4): NPV = Y 6,236.4 million; ERR = 24%.
Economic Evaluation. Detailed rate of return calculations were performed for the individual
water resource subprojects, individual agricultural production subprojects, and the project as a whole. The
analysis includes benefits related to irrigation and drainage, land reclamation, and land improvement, but
not institutional development or improved environmental management. The analysis compares "with
project" and "without project" scenarios. The results are summarized below and presented in detail in
Annex 4, along with the analyses about production levels, markets, prices, risks and methodology.
Project Costs. Total project cost is estimated at Y 7,083.6 million (US$849.3 million equivalent)
including physical and price contingencies of about Y 1,092.2 million (US$127.4 million). Cost estimates
are based on 1997 prices and include physical contingencies of 10 percent for goods and works. Standard
Bank local and foreign inflation rates have been used over the project implementation period of five years.
All base costs except the investments in institutional development and support by SOCAD have been
considered in estimating the economic costs of the project; but price contingencies, interest, and taxes were
omitted. Contributed labor for farm construction and agricultural production has been shadow-priced at
the wage rate of Y 10/day prevailing in the project area. World Bank price projections were used to
estimate farmgate prices in 1997 constant terms for traded inputs and outputs. The standard conversion
factor of 1 was applied to all non-traded items, and a discount rate of 12 percent was used to approximate
the opportunity cost of capital (OCC) in China.
Project Benefits. The project would generate substantial benefits by: (a) improving irrigation and
drainage systems, on-farm lands, and agricultural services to increase intensity of use of existing and
expanded irrigated lands and improve mid-and-low yield farmland in the Huang-Huai-Hai Plain, the most
important agricultural production base in China.; (b) increasing the agricultural productivity and
production of a wide range of crops, mainly for food crops of rice, maize, and wheat, to contribute
substantially to food security in China; (c) increasing per capita income and rural employment for some 4.5
million farmer households, and a smaller general increase in per capita incomes for other households which
would indirectly benefit from increased agricultural production; (d) protecting and enhancing the fragile
ecological-environmental system of the project area through the planned forestation and rational use of land
and water resources; (e) developing and implementing a program approach to irrigated agriculture
investment and development which will support sustainable use, development and management of water
and land resources; and (f) developing and establishing SIDDs (WSCs and WUAs) which will contribute to
better irrigation management, increased yields and production, more efficient water use, better operation
and maintenance of irrigation systems, reduced farmer labor requirements for water management, reduced
conflict about water among farmers, improved collection of water charges, and lower fiscal burdens for
irrigation O&M on local governments. Only the direct benefits of increased crop production ((a) and (b)
above) have been used in the project economic analysis.
In the project area, it is estimated that overall cropping intensity with the project would increase by
17 percent from 162 percent to 179 percent (12 percent in Anhui, 13 percent in Jiangsu, 16 percent in
Henan, 18 percent in Shandong and 28 percent in Hebei); and yields of the crops would increase by 7
percent to 89 percent (e.g., by 7 percent to 80 percent for food crops, 9 percent to 35 percent for cash
crops, 12 percent to 89 percent for cotton) in various subproject areas due to improvement of irrigation and
soil conditions. Total production is expected to increase significantly by the time the project reaches full
development (beginning in Years 9-12 for various subproject areas), based on the improved and expanded
irrigated land (1.57 million ha), and improved agricultural support services. The total production will
increase by roughly 3.2 million tons of grain, 1.1 million ton of cash crops, and 1.2 million cu m of timber.



Page 16
This includes the following increases: wheat 1.3 million tons; rice 1.4 million tons; maize 701,000 tons;
cotton 67,000 tons; soybeans 45,000 tons; rape 66,000 tons; and vegetables and other crops 845,000 tons.
The total incremental production value is estimated at Y 6,661 million annually. The increased production
of various crops would also provide substantial increases in crop residues and forage valued at Y 376
million, which would be used as coarse feed for increased livestock production. The detailed incremental
cropped area, yield and production of various crops are given in Annex 4.
Economic Rate of Return. Given the linkage between the different components, detailed rate of
return calculations have been carried out at three levels: (a) the individual irrigation areas within province,
(b) subproject areas in each province, and (c) the project as a whole. The analysis compared the
quantifiable benefits derived through the improvements in irrigation and drainage facilities, mid-and-low
yield fanmland, agricultural services and the eco-environmental system (forestry belt), and the estimated
economic costs.  It did not include indirect benefits from  institutional development or improved
environmental management. Comparing costs and benefits over a period of 20 years, the estimated ERRs
are all favorable. The ERRs for individual irrigation areas range from about 17 percent in the Guangli
irrigation area of Henan province to 26 percent in the Jiyun River irrigation area of Hebei province, and
from 22 percent in Anhui to 25 percent in Hebei for various subproject areas, depending on the assumed
crop yields and the years to reach full development, cropping intensity and cropping pattern, the size of the
irrigation and planted area, and the investment, production, and the O&M costs for each different type of
scheme at the time of implementation in subproject area. The overall project discounted economic benefits
are Y 30.6 billion, total discounted costs are Y 24.4 billion, and the ERR is 24 percent with a net present
value of about Y 6.2 billion. The economic analysis of the five provinces' subprojects resulted in the
following base case ERRs (the detailed results by sub-irrigation area are sunmmarized in Annex 4)
Anhui Irrigation and Drainage Subprojects               22%
Shandong Irrigation and Drainage Subprojects            24%
Jiangsu Irrigation and Drainage Subprojects             24%
Henan Irrigation and Drainage Subprojects               23%
Hebei Irrigation and Drainage Subprojects               25%
Total Project Irrigation and Drainage Subprojects  24%
Sensitivity and Risk Analysis. The economic sensitivity and risk analysis of all subprojects was
carried out for the following scenarios: (a) natural disasters of drought, scorching heat waves, floods and
insect pests; (b) reduced benefits from lower canal system efficiency; (c) market-determined prices of major
crops (wheat, maize, paddy and cotton) reduced by 10-15 percent; and (d) delay of project completion by
two years due to inadequate institutional capacity and financial support. These risks were evaluated with
sensitivity analyses using a range of data assumptions for the estimation of ERRs. The results show that,
even with consideration of the risks mentioned above, the estimated ERRs of all subprojects are higher than
the OCC of 12 percent. Measures have been taken in project preparation and design and included in the
project to reduce these risks and minimize their effect. Annex 4 summarizes the sensitivity analysis for the
risks that were quantified.
Sensitivity analysis on the ERRs for all scenarios including the base cases and all subprojects was
carried out using switching values to identify increases in costs and/or decreases in benefits which would
make the project economically nonviable (i.e., lower the ERR below the OCC), and how far the total costs
including the operation and input costs and investment costs could rise or benefits fall (e.g., reduced yield
and/or output price, and/or delay in benefits). The switching values analysis shows that the project could
tolerate substantial increases in costs or reductions in benefits; overall, the project would remain viable
(with an ERR of at least 12% ) if costs increase about 25% or benefits fall 20%, and individual subprojects
could tolerate similar cost increases and benefit reductions. In most subprojects, viability is more sensitive
to benefit reductions than to cost increases.



Page 17
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and 5): NPV = Y 4,230.4 million; FRR = 18%
Financial Evaluation. Financial analysis was prepared for the overall project and subproject
areas, and to indicate the financial incentives of farmers to participate in the project, cost of water service
and the farmer's ability to pay those costs, and the financial feasibility of their doing so successfully.
During project preparation, the overall incentive framework for beneficiaries, including land tenure, water
pricing, and agricultural marketing issues, was reviewed.
Financial Analysis. Although financial analysis strictly speaking is not applicable to the public
irrigation schemes to be financed under the project, it was carried out to indicate the financial viability of
the proposed investments, as if the irrigation districts were expected to be self-financing. The project
would substantially improve the financial viability of farming through increased annual returns to farm
labor and capital investments. Financial analysis has been carried out for each individual irrigation area,
provincial subproject area, and typical beneficiary farms based on project cost estimates. FRRs for all
financial resources are estimated to range from 17 percent (Anhui) to 19 percent (Jiangsu), and the overall
project FRR is 18 percent as shown below. (Detailed results for the sub-irrigation areas in each province
are summarized in Annex 4)
Anhui Irrigation and Drainage Subprojects               17%
Shandong Irrigation and Drainage Subprojects            18%
Jiangsu Irrigation and Drainage Subprojects             19%
Henan Irrigation and Drainage Subprojects               18%
Hebei Irrigation and Drainage Subprojects               19%
Total Project Irrigation and Drainage Area       18%
Farm  Model Analysis. The farm model analysis shows substantial increases in beneficiary
farmers' income with the comprehensive improvement in irrigation and drainage, crop production, and
agricultural support and agro-machinery service. Several items have been considered to calculate and
assess the impacts on typical household income, such as: various incremental taxes (agricultural tax,
special product tax and fee, etc.); an incremental water charge which will cover the full operation and
maintenance costs for the rehabilitated irrigation and drainage system; and project loan repayment that will
be charged in the fourth through eighth years at Y 68/mu in Henan, Y 97/mu in Hebei, Y 75/mu in Anhui,
and Y 80/mu in Jiangsu and Shandong. The standard charge for these items is presented in the typical
household farm model (see Annex 4). Disposable net income of farm households who participated and
adopted improved or new technologies under the project would increase on average from Y 3,849 at present
to Y 4,873 in Year 6 in Anhui; Y 4,123 to Y 5,766 in Jiangsu; Y 4,536 to Y 7,002 in Hebei; Y 3,960 to Y
5,015 in Henan; and Y 4,200 to Y4,977 in Shandong. The summary table of household net income in each
province is presented in Annex 4 . It shows the real growth rate of household income from project start to
Year 6 in various subproject areas, ranging from 17 to 76 percent for low income families, 17 to 27 percent
for middle income farnilies, and 16 to 53 percent for high income families. This indicates the strong
financial incentives for farmers to participate in the project, and the farmer's ability to pay the costs of the
project. During the project, detailed analysis of O&M costs, farmers' incremental income and ability to
pay, and the level of water charges required to make WSCs and WUAs self-financing would be carried out,
and water charges would be set and adjusted accordingly to cover at least O&M costs plus Bank loan
repayment.
Fiscal Impact. The primary fiscal impact of the project will be short-term, mainly with regard to
the provision of adequate and timely counterpart funding for implementation, and primarily at the local
county and township level. For construction of irrigation and drainage facilities, much of the local
contribution will come directly from participating farmers, so the direct fiscal impact on local governments
should be relatively small. In the longer term, it is expected that most of the local government contribution,
including for irrigation system operation and for repayment of the Bank loan, would be recovered from
beneficiaries after project completion. Schedules and timetables for increasing water charges to cover at



Page 18
least O&M costs plus repayment of the Bank loan would be prepared by September 30, 1999 on the basis
of guidelines acceptable to the Bank. These water charge rates would be reviewed every three years to
maintain coverage of water service costs. Separate accounts for water charge collections would be
maintained, and water charges collected would be used exclusively for irrigation-related purposes.
Guidelines for preparation of the schedule of water charges include consideration of the farmers' ability to
pay, incentives to encourage efficient water use, costs of providing irrigation water, efficiency of water
charge collections, and analysis of the current use of water charges collected. As SIDDs spread and with
increased water charges, WSCs and WUAs are expected to assume much of the direct fiscal and
management burden for irrigation O&M, and the fiscal impact on local governments should be much less
than for traditional irrigation development projects.
Under the agriculture component, fertilizer blending plants, seed companies and agro-machinery
centers would be operated on a commercial basis, and the sales prices for agricultural inputs and services
would be fixed on the basis of market conditions and would have to cover costs including distribution costs
for the facilities to remain financially viable. Each proposed fertilizer plant and seed facility would have to
demonstrate a financial rate of return of at least 12 percent and submit to the Bank a satisfactory feasibility
study and business plan before it could be financed under the project. Agro-machinery centers would
charge service fees which would cover their costs. For agriculture extension and support, however,
recurrent costs for local governments may increase somewhat due to incremental staff and operating cost
increases required for intensified agricultural activities in the subproject areas. Forestry components and
forest nurseries would be operated on a self-financing basis.
3. Technical:
Technical Issues. The following key technical issues for the project were identified:
(a) Yellow River water for Shandong subprojects. The Yellow River is already extremely water short and
the shortage situation is worsening. IAIL 2 should not add to diversion of Yellow River water in
Shandong. Detailed calculations of subproject water supply and demand in Shandong indicate that
water for LAIL 2 subprojects will not require additional diversion of water from the Yellow River. To
help ensure this, Shandong would on average limit the total area provided with Yellow River water to
about 1.7 million ha, stay within their annual allocation of 7.0 BCM of water from the Yellow River on
average, and use management and design practices to minimize use of Yellow River water for IAIL 2
subproject areas so they do not contribute to diversions exceeding the 7.0 BCM allocation.
(b) Water balance and Huaiyin No. 2 Pumping Station in Jiangsu. Water balance analyses were done to
evaluate the availability of water for the various subprojects, and they indicated that surface water
supply is generally adequate to meet the demand of JAIL 2 subprojects in all provinces except Jiangsu.
To provide additional water in Jiangsu, the province would complete the Huaiyin No. 2 Pumping
Station with capacity of at least 100 m3/sec by December 31, 2002, and monitor and report semi-
annually to the Bank on implementation progress.
(c) Groundwater monitoring and management. In Hebei, Shandong and Henan, groundwater is a major
contributor to the water balance, and in many areas it is in short supply, especially in southern Hebei.
Groundwater studies and monitoring are needed to ensure that new wells under the project do not
contribute to groundwater overdraft, and that where appropriate groundwater recharge and
groundwater/surface water interchanges and conjunctive use of groundwater and surface water are
adequately considered. Under the project, Hebei, Shandong and Henan will: monitor and control
groundwater abstractions and groundwater levels so as not to exceed groundwater recharge; ensure that
no additional wells are financed under the project where the estimated long-term rate of groundwater
recharge would be less then the long-term rate of extraction; and limit the depth of wells financed under
the project to 50 m or less in order to confine abstractions to the shallow aquifer. They would also



Page 19
provide to SOCAD annual reports on the results of their annual groundwater monitoring by March 15
of the following year, and SOCAD would provide to the Bank by March 31 of each year a consolidated
report on groundwater. Groundwater monitoring and management would follow the Guidelines in
Annex 11 of the PIP which have been incorporated into the program approach.
(d) Dam safety. Preparation of detailed plans (including commitment of counterpart funding and staff,
construction timetables, procurement schedules, and monitoring targets) for rehabilitation of the four
large dams over 15 m in height serving subproject areas and identified as requiring repair or upgrading
would be required by December 31, 1998, as well as preparation of annual progress reports on those
plans, and completion of rehabilitation of these dams by December 31, 2002. The dams identified are:
Mahe (Shandong), Xiaotashan (Jiangsu), and Longhekou and Fuzhiling (Anhui). Completion of an
inspection and comprehensive safety evaluation of any other large dam(s) serving a subproject prior to
start of work under that subproject, completion by December 31, 2002 of an additional inspection and
comprehensive safety evaluation of each large dam related to the project, and submission of a report on
the inspection results to the Bank would also be required. Independent dam safety experts for the above
inspections would be employed, and by December 31, 2002 an emergency preparedness plan for each
large dam related to the project would be provided to the Bank. Guidelines to be followed for dam
safety under the project are included in the program approach and detailed in Annex 14 of the PIP.
(e) Planning and scheduling of subproject construction. Planning and scheduling of implementation of
irrigation and drainage system improvements and extensions would be carried out to ensure that the
most cost-effective subprojects and measures are selected, and generally to complete township
subprojects in one or two years.
(f) Irrigation and drainage system design and main system improvements. Irrigation systems' capability to
deliver water to subproject areas has been reviewed, and main system improvements have been included
under the project where appropriate, in addition to on-farm system development and improvement.
Water measuring devices are needed in the lower end of the canal systems for efficient operation of the
systems and would be installed at approximately the lateral canal level to measure water supplied to all
subproject areas.
(g) Improved O&M. Establishment of SIDDs comprising WSCs responsible for the main systems and
WUAs responsible for tertiary systems will be financed under the project to help improve O&M. Pilot
SIDDs and WUAs would be established by September 30, 1998, and on the basis of pilot experience
SIDDs or WUAs would be extended throughout the project area. Water measuring devices would be
installed at WUA headgates and are required for SIDD operation, as well as for efficient system
management.
(h) Fertility monitoring, adaptive research, and integrated pest management. Monitoring of soil fertility
would be carried out in the project area, and detailed plans, programs and budgets for adaptive research
for the next year would be submitted to the Bank by November 30 of each year. Soil fertility
monitoring would follow the plan outlined in Section 6 of Annex 11 of the PIP, supplemented by the
report dated April 27, 1998 titled IAIL 2 Soil Fertility Monitoring Plan. The plan in Annex 11 would
be revised to include plans for extension of soil fertility monitoring throughout the project area, costs of
monitoring, and the list of monitoring sites. Plans for adaptive research, on-farm and verification trials,
extension, and integrated pest management should be prepared by the County Agriculture and Technical
Extension Centers and submitted to POCADs. Plans should show activities, physical targets, estimated
costs and timetables. POCADs would submit provincial plans to SOCAD by November I of each year.
(i) Program approach operational guidelines. Selection, preparation, approval, implementation, completion
and monitoring of subprojects under the project would follow the guidelines, steps, procedures and



Page 20
technical and institutional standards and criteria which have been agreed under the program approach to
be followed during project implementation, and each subproject to be financed would have to be
technically feasible and economically viable with an ERR of at least 12 percent. Additional guidelines,
revisions, details or clarifications would be prepared and incorporated into the program approach if
needed during implementation.
All the above technical issues have been defined and dealt with during preparation and appraisal,
through special studies and technical assistance where appropriate, through inclusion in program approach
procedures, and/or through specific covenants. Additional specialized research and studies are planned or
under preparation for many of the above topics, and the results and recommendations from the research
will be assessed and incorporated during project implementation as appropriate. A provincial level
technical expert group of eminent scientists and experts with qualifications and terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank would be maintained in each province to help guide the technical aspects of the
project, introduce technical innovations where appropriate, and deal with technical issues as they arise
during implementation. The provincial expert groups would review and report annually; each POCAD
would by March 15 submit its report on the previous year to SOCAD, which would submit its consolidated
report to the Bank by March 31.
4. Institutional:
Institutional Issues. The project would support the introduction of innovative institutional
reforms for improvements in irrigation and drainage system development and management. These reforms
should achieve, among other things: (a) development and implementation of a program approach to
irrigation and drainage investment and development; and (b) introduction of SIDD concepts, with WSCs
that will manage, on a commercial basis, subproject water supply and drainage systems and supply bulk
water supply and drainage collection services to WUAs, which would be owned and operated by farmers
who will operate and maintain the lower levels of supply and drainage systems. The institutional measures
will need to include mechanisms to ensure self-financing. Both the program approach and SIDDs are new
to the Chinese irrigation subsector, and it is important that the provincial government agencies understand
and "own" the SIDD concepts. Specialized technical assistance (TA) and training would be built into
project implementation, and the project would finance development costs for the program approach and
SIDD establishment. It is recognized that participation, establishment of "ownership," education of
decision makers and staff, preparation and adoption of the necessary procedures, and increases in water
charges to self-financing levels will take extra time and effort during implementation. Accelerated
processing of the project has reduced preparation time for these items and involves increased risks to key
institutional components of the project due to reduced time for learning and "ownership" establishment. To
reduce these risks, project legal documents include specific covenants for establishment of pilot SIDDs
(WSCs and WUAs) by September 30, 1998 and preparation of SIDD development plans by December 31,
1998. Further development of SIDDs in the project area would be based on the experience of the pilot
SIDDs and SIDD plans in each province. The provinces have already begun establishment of WSCs and
WUAs, and specialized TA will be continued during the project period to help support and guide SIDD
development.
5. Social:
Resettlement. The project is not expected to require any relocation of people, as project works are
generally for replacement of existing irrigation structures or construction of small on-farm works. The
project would affect people primarily through loss of crops on construction sites, but these cases would be
few. Mitigation measures would be taken to minimize such crop losses, allocate saved land to people
suffering losses, and if necessary provide compensation and/or redistribute village lands temporarily. In
addition, during implementation, consultation with farmers would be continued and impacts would be



Page 21
monitored and reported. A Policy Framework for resettlement under the project has been prepared and
incorporated into the program approach procedures and would be followed in evaluating and implementing
subprojects.  Resettlement of people, if required for a subproject, would be carried out before
implementation of the subproject according to a resettlement plan on the basis of policies, principles,
procedures and institutional arrangements described in the Policy Framework so as to improve the living
standards of the people resettled. Any resettlement action plan for a subproject would require Bank prior
approval, and would be prepared by the concerned province following the resettlement Policy Framework
in Annex 15 of the PIP.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category: B
Environmental Issues. There are no major environmental issues. Minor issues include possible:
(a) small contributions to lake eutrophication due to increased fertilizer use and runoff; (b) possible
increased diversion of Yellow River water in Shandong; (c) overdraft of groundwater in limited areas of
Hebei, Henan and Shandong provinces; and (d) inadequate drainage to control water table levels and
secondary soil salinity. These issues have been dealt with in project design and the project loan covenants.
All subprojects would comply with environmental protection guidelines and standards satisfactory to the
Bank, and Chinese laws and regulations relating to health, safety and environmental protection. The
environmental management plan program is detailed in Section 6 of Annex 16 of the PIP. Implementation
of environmental management plans for the project area would be monitored; reports summarizing the
results of environmental monitoring would be submitted for each year by POCADs to SOCAD by March
15 of the following year, and by SOCAD to the Bank by March 31.
Rationale for Category Rating. The project would have no major environmental impacts.
Irrigation development under the project would be within existing irrigation areas, on land already being
used for agriculture. This is mostly irrigated land which was abandoned due to inefficient water delivery
and use, lack of facilities to deliver water, and in some areas waterlogging or salinization due to lack of
adequate drainage facilities. Project investments would provide the necessary infrastructure to remove
these constraints, and all project developments would be done in an environmentally sound and sustainable
manner. The incremental contribution of agriculture to lake eutrophication due to the project is expected to
be minimal or negative because the project will improve the efficiency of fertilizer use through more
balanced application of fertilizer. In Shandong, IAIL 2 subprojects would be designed not to increase
diversion of Yellow River water above the province's 7.0 BCM allocation. Under the project in Hebei,
Henan and Shandong, groundwater abstraction and water tables in areas at risk of groundwater overdraft
would be monitored and controlled closely, and measures have been agreed to ensure that the Bank loan
does not finance new wells and/or increased pumping in areas without adequate recharge. Irrigation
investments would include adequate drainage to control high water tables and salinity. The project would
conform to environmental guidelines and standards satisfactory to the Bank. SOCAD would provide by
November 30 of each year for Bank review an environmental management plan for the next year based on
plans prepared by POCADs and COCADs, and would also provide to the Bank each year a report
summarizing the results of environmental monitoring by March 31 of the following year. Pesticides and
other farm chemicals for use in the project area would be selected from a Bank-approved list, and they
would used, handled and stored in a manner acceptable to the Bank. Bank, MOA and NEPA guidelines on
safe pesticide use would be followed where applicable.
7. Participatory approach:
SIDD  Development.  The primary participatory aspect of the project would be SIDD
development. SIDD development plans would be prepared using a social assessment (information sharing)
and stakeholder participation (consultation). Implementation would be done with direct participation of
farmers, especially farmer WUAs, in planning and layout of the local irrigation networks (consultation) and
in construction of the works and management of the systems upon completion (collaboration). Where



Page 22
WUAs are not yet formed, a similar participatory process would be implemented through the villages and
townships. Model charters and procedures in the provincial SIDD Development Plans under the project
would be designed to promote, support and reinforce the participatory aspects of WSCs and WUAs. The
provinces would prepare and submit to the Bank by December 31, 1998 their provincial SIDD
development plans which would provide details on procedures, timetables, model charters, and budgets for
SIDD development and expansion under the project.
Primary Beneficiaries and Other Affected Groups. The primary beneficiaries would be the
farmers in the project areas. Secondary beneficiaries would be the line and implementing agencies which
would be strengthened, and the Central and provincial governments which would adopt improved standards
for subproject selection, preparation, implementation and operation. Local governments would benefit
from SIDD development through reduced budget requirements for irrigation operation and maintenance.
Other Key Stakeholders. Other key stakeholders would be government employees currently
employed for O&M of government irrigation schemes. When these schemes are transferred to SIDD
operation, farmers would take over many of these responsibilities, and staff numbers would have to be
reduced to reduce the cost of delivered water. These staff would need to be transferred to other government
positions or other employment.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Overall project sustainability hinges primarily on the effectiveness of project management
arrangements to produce high quality, innovative designs for project components and to assure high quality
of construction. For irrigation and drainage facilities, sustainability depends on cost recovery to support
adequate O&M and major repairs in the long run (and also repayment of the Bank loan). Under the
proposed project, SIDD development and farmer participation are the primary vehicles for improving local
support and cost recovery for irrigation O&M, and sustainability will therefore depend on how effective the
project is in introducing institutional arrangements for establishing effective and successful SIDDs.
Sustainability of the water conservation measures has been addressed during preparation through
consideration of O&M of project facilities after construction, especially the self-financing of these activities
through SIDD development. For agriculture components, sustainability will depend on provision of
adequate budgets for strengthened agriculture extension activities in the project areas, and on establishment
of commercially operated and viable fertilizer plants, seed facilities and agro-machinery centers which will
be self-financing. Under the program approach, fertilizer plants and seed facilities would not be financed
under the project until feasibility studies and business plans are prepared which meet standards acceptable
to the Bank.



Page 23
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                  Risk Rating         Risk Minimization Measure
Product prices are not maintained in real    N     Project includes substantial diversification of
terms                                              agricultural production
Institutional capacity is not sufficient to  S     Project requires strengthening, increased staff,
manage project activities efficiently,             and comprehensive training for CPMO, and
especially in the SOCAD CPMO                       employment of specialized experts by CPMO
Farmers do not have sufficient financial  N        Project will provide agriculture support
capacity or incentives for land                    services to farmers to maximize retums from
improvements, loan repayment and to take           investments, and will promote feeling of
over O&M of project facilities                     ownership by famners through the
establishment of WUAs
SIDDs (WSCs and WUAs) will not be     M            Draft SIDD development plans have been
established and operated as planned to take        prepared and "owned" by government,
over management of irrigation and drainage         specialized TA, training and study tours will be
systems, with full government support, and         provided, and WSCs/WUAs will be registered
steps to make WSCs and WUAs permanent              as legal entities.
legal entities will not be taken
Water charges will not be raised sufficiently  M   Timetables for raising water charges would be
to cover self-financing costs for adequate         prepared by September 1999, and measures
O&M, and where SIDDs are established to           for WSC and WUA short-term financial
make WSCs and WUAs financially viable              support (if necessary) would be required
WSCs and WUAs will not adequately take   N         Project will provide training for
over O&M responsibilities                          WUAs/farmers and WSC staff on O&M
Key inputs such as fertilizer and     N            Project would finance key materials, inputs and
construction materials will not be available      input production facilities
when needed
Understanding of project concepts will not  M      Project includes training on LkIL 2 concepts,
be adequate due to lack of preparation time,       financial management, disbursements,
and subproject supervision will be                 procurement, etc.; TA and training on program
inadequate                                         approach for preparation and supervision
Preparation of subprojects will be    M            Bank missions appraised 20 subprojects in the
incomplete due to lack of preparation time         field to demonstrate requirements for adequate
and inadequate understanding of project            preparation; program approach covers
concepts                                           preparation requirements; and increased Bank
supervision support will be provided to monitor
. _________ and help guide and assist implementation
Counterpart funding will not be adequate or  M     Project FMS and MIS would provide for
available on time                                  monitoring of counterpart funding, and MOF
will take measures as necessary
Extraordinary floods or droughts occur  N          Design standards would include a 75%
probability and adequate cross drainage; each
project province currently has a crisis
management system, including monitoring and
early warning of pending disasters
Overall Risk Rating        M
Risk Rating -- H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects: None



Page 24
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions: Standard
2. Covenants:'
(a) selection, preparation, approval and implementation of subprojects under the project would
follow the steps, procedures and technical and institutional standards and criteria agreed under
the program approach, including that subprojects financed under the project are technically
feasible and economically viable with an ERR of at least 12 percent. (The program approach
system is described in the PIP and its annexes, detailed in PIP Annex 9 and SOCAD files, and
may be updated from time to time with the Bank's concurrence. It includes manuals and
guidelines which cover preparation, appraisal, supervision, commissioning, and operation of
subprojects by SOCAD, POCADs and lower levels, and incorporates both SOCAD and Bank
requirements for environment, resettlement, dam safety, procurement, financial management,
and other topics. Under the program approach, subproject appraisal reports would be
submitted for Bank approval before construction, and social assessment guidelines which meet
Bank requirements for resettlement would be followed (by SOCAD, POCADs and
provinces).)
(b) (i) maintenance of SOCAD's IAIL 2 CPMO acceptable to the Bank, which would monitor
and report on subproject implementation and adherence to program approach standards,
guidelines and procedures, and provide technical and policy guidance; (ii) preparation and
submission to the Bank by September 30, 1998 of an action plan for strengthening, training
and equipping of the CPMO to prepare, appraise and supervise subprojects; and (iii) carrying
out of those plans. (Plans would include strengthening of the CPMO as an official unit,
increase in CPMO staffing by at least 10 staff, comprehensive training on IAIL 2, and
employment of expert consultants with suitable qualifications and field experience with Bank
projects (by SOCAD).)
(c) establishment by September 30, 1998 of at least one pilot SIDD in each province with one
WSC and at least one WUA, and at least one pilot WUA in each city/prefecture under the
project, for SIDD learning and implementation. The pilot SIDDs and WUAs should include
model operation and maintenance and water users contracts between the WUAs, WSCs,
and/or appropriate agencies which would be executed at the time of SIDD and WUA
establishment, and provision for at least 40 percent representation by farmers and WUAs on
WSC Boards of Directors (by provinces).
(d) preparation by December 31, 1998 of SIDD development plans. SIDD development plans
would follow guidelines acceptable to the Bank. (Plans would cover: plans and timetables for
expansion of SIDDs and WUAs throughout the project area during project implementation
based on experience with pilot SIDDs and pilot WUAs; SIDD implementation arrangements
and timetables; preparation of model charters and by-laws for WSCs and WUAs, and model
water delivery contracts between WSCs, WUAs, WRBs, and local govermments; plans for
execution of water delivery contracts which would define the rights and obligations of WSCs
and WUAs; adoption of the necessary provincial procedures for WSC and WUA registration;
and plans to reassign staff after SIDDs are established (by POCADs and provinces).)
Text in parentheses indicates understandings reflected in the PIP dated April 1998 and the Agreed Minutes of
Negotiations dated May 1, 1998.



Page 25
(e) provision for government(s) at the time of WSC and WUA establishment to: (i) transfer the
farmers' labor contribution used for O&M of irrigation schemes from local governments to
WSCs and WUAs; (ii) give WSCs and WUAs legal authority to collect water charges; and
(iii) maintain normal technical and financial support (government subsidies) in SIDD
irrigation areas (by provinces).
(f)  (i) preparation by September 30, 1999, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, of
schedules and timetables for increasing water charges to cover at least O&M costs plus
repayment of the Bank loan; (ii) review of water charge rates every three years to maintain
coverage of water service costs; and (iii) maintenance of separate accounts for water charge
collections, and the use of these funds exclusively for irrigation-related purposes. (Guidelines
for preparation of the schedule of water charges would include consideration of the farmers'
ability to pay, need for incentives to encourage efficient water use, cost of providing irrigation
water, efficiency of water charge collections, and use of water charges collected (by
provinces).)
(g) (i) preparation by December 31, 1998 of detailed plans (including commitment of counterpart
funding and staff, construction timetables, procurement schedules, and monitoring targets) for
rehabilitation of the four large dams over 15 m in height serving subproject areas and
identified as requiring repair or upgrading; (ii) preparation of annual progress reports on those
plans, and completion of rehabilitation of these dams by December 31, 2002; (iii) completion
of an inspection and comprehensive safety evaluation of any other large dam serving a
subproject prior to start of work under that subproject; (iv) completion by December 31, 2002
of an additional inspection and comprehensive safety evaluation of each large dam related to
the project, and submission of a report on the results to the Bank; (v) employment of
independent dam safety experts for the above inspections; and (vi) provision to the Bank by
December 31, 2002 of an emergency preparedness plan for each large dam related to the
project. (Guidelines to be followed for dam safety under the project are included in the
program approach, and detailed in Annex 14 of the PIP (by SOCAD and provinces).)
(h) (i) maintenance of PPMOs with terms of reference and staffing and other resources acceptable
to the Bank, and with senior-level representatives from the WRBs, ABs and FRBs in the
PPMOs; and (ii) full staffing of PPMOs by September 30, 1998. (WRB representatives
would be appointed as the deputy directors of all PPMOs. PPMOs would also conclude
supervision agreements with provincial WRBs for technical supervision of water resource and
SIDD components as part of their supervision plans (by provinces).)
(i) (i) submission to the Bank before November 30 of each year of work programs and financial
plans for the following year, including evidence of adequate counterpart funding; and (ii)
carrying out of work programs and financial plans and provision of adequate counterpart
funding. POCADs would submit their provincial work plans to SOCAD by November 1 (by
SOCAD and POCADs).
(j) establishment of the: (i) pilot MIS for the project by December 31, 1999 covering at least the
CPMO and PPMOs; and (ii) full MIS down to the county level by June 30, 2000.
(Development and operation of the MIS would follow the Guidelines in Annex 17 of the PIP
(by SOCAD).)
(k) maintenance of separate records and accounts for the project, auditing of project records and
accounts including the Special Account and statements of expenditure for each fiscal year,
and submission of the audit report for each fiscal year to the Bank by July I of the following



Page 26
year. (The agreed Guidelines for the project financial management system (FMS) in Annex
10 of the PIP have been incorporated into the program approach and would be followed
during implementation. FMS would be linked to the project MIS, and adequate qualified staff,
equipment and resources in SOCAD and POCADs for financial management functions would
be provided. The State Audit Bureau has been selected as the auditor for the project (SOCAD
and POCADs).)
(1)  commitment by Hebei, Henan and Shandong provinces to: (i) monitor and control ground-
water abstractions and groundwater levels so as not to exceed groundwater recharge; (ii)
ensure that no additional wells are financed under the project where the estimated long-term
rate of groundwater recharge would be less then the long-term rate of extraction; (iii) limit the
depth of wells financed under the project to 50 m or less; (iv) provide to SOCAD reports each
year on results of their annual monitoring not later than March 15 of the following year; and
(v) provide to the Bank by March 31 of each year the consolidated report on groundwater.
(Groundwater monitoring and management would follow the Guidelines in Annex 11 of the
PIP (by Hebei, Henan and Shandong provinces and SOCAD).)
(m) commitment by Jiangsu to: (i) construction and commissioning of the Huaiyin Pumping
Station No. 2 with at least 100 m3/sec capacity by December 31, 2002; and (ii) monitor and
report on construction progress semi-annually by March 15 and September 15 of each year to
SOCAD (by Jiangsu Province).)
(n) commitment to an estimated completion date for each township level OFD subproject within
two years after it starts construction (by provinces and counties).
(o) carry out monitoring of soil fertility in the project area. (Soil fertility monitoring would follow
the plan outlined in Section 6 of Annex 11 of the PIP, supplemented by the report dated April
27, 1998 titled IAIL 2 Soil Fertility Monitoring Plan, and the plan in Annex 11 would be
revised to include plans for extension of soil fertility monitoring throughout the project area,
costs of monitoring, and the list of monitoring sites (by POCADs/COCADs).)
(p) submission to the Bank of satisfactory feasibility studies and business plans for fertilizer
plants and seed facilities, and demonstration of a rate of return of at least 12 percent, before
their inclusion for financing under the project (by provinces and counties).
(q) submission to the Bank by November 30 of each year of detailed plans, programs and budgets
for adaptive research, on-farm and verification trials, extension, and integrated pest
management for the next year. (The county plans should be prepared by the County
Agriculture and Technical Extension Centers, and submitted to POCADs, which would
submit provincial plans to SOCAD by November 1. Plans should show activities, physical
targets, estimated costs and timetables (by POCADs/COCADs).)
(r)  selection of pesticides and other farm chemicals from lists approved by the Bank, and use,
handling and storage of pesticides and chemicals in a manner acceptable to the Bank (by
provinces through SOCAD).
(s) resettlement of people, if required for a subproject under the project, before implementation of
the subproject according to a resettlement plan approved by the Bank on the basis of policies,
principles, procedures and institutional arrangements acceptable to the Bank so as to improve
the living standards of the people resettled. (Any resettlement action plan required for a
subproject would be submitted to the Bank for prior approval, and would be prepared by the



Page 27
concerned province(s) following the agreed resettlement Policy Framework in Annex 15 of
the PIP (by SOCAD and POCADs).)
(t) (i) compliance of the subprojects with environmental protection guidelines and standards
satisfactory to the Bank, and Chinese laws and regulations relating to health, safety and
environmental protection; (ii) submission to the Bank by March 31 of each year of a report
summarizing the results for the previous year of monitoring of environmental management
plans for the project area; and (iii) design of Shandong subprojects to ensure they do not
increase water diversions from the Yellow River. Each POCAD would provide the results of
monitoring of its environmental management plan to SOCAD by March 15.  (The
environmental management plan program is detailed in Section 6 of Annex 16 of the PIP (by
SOCAD and POCADs).)
(u) (i) maintenance of a provincial level technical expert group of eminent scientists and experts
with composition and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) annual reporting by the
group on their technical and scientific recommendations; and (iii) submission to the Bank by
March 31 of the following year of the group's annual evaluation report. POCADs would
submit their reports to SOCAD by March 15 (by SOCAD, POCADs and provinces).
(v) submission to the Bank by November 30 of each year of a consolidated supervision plan for
the project supervision in the following year, and provision of supervision reports to the Bank
within three months after each supervision. POCADs would submit their supervision plans to
SOCAD by November 1 of each year, prepared according to terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank. (The supervision plan would include the list of names of supervision staff and
experts, and agreements with WRBs for supervision of water resource and SIDD components.
Supervision teams and reports should cover key physical and financial monitoring indicators,
review achievements against planned targets, identify problems and recommendations, and be
coordinated with Bank supervision missions (by SOCAD and POCADs).)
(w) preparation and furnishing to the Bank by December 31, 2000 of a Mid-termn Report for the
Mid-term Review to be conducted jointly by SOCAD/POCADs/Bank, and implementation of
measures agreed at the Mid-term Review. The Mid-term Report would summarize the results
of monitoring and evaluation under the project, and include problems encountered during
project implementation, revised costs, and measures recommended to complete the project (by
SOCAD and POCADs).
(x) (i) submission to the Bank of semi-annual progress reports by March 31 and September 30 of
each year summarizing project progress; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of project
implementation, including implementation of the environmental management plan, and
impacts based on agreed monitoring indicators; and (iii) furnishing to the Bank of annual
reports by March 31 of the following year summarizing the results of monitoring and
evaluation including environment, groundwater monitoring, and technical expert reviews.
POCAD annual reports would be submitted to SOCAD by March 15. The Borrower's
Implementation Completion Report would be provided to the Bank within six months after
project completion (by SOCAD and POCADs).
3. Conditions ofNegotiations: None
4. Disbursement Conditions: None



Page 28
H. Readiness.for Implementation
[x] Engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for start of project
implementation. Implementation of simple works involving mainly earthworks, and MIS development,
started on November 1, 1997 under retroactive financing, and it is estimated that expenditures equivalent to
disbursements of approximately $15 million will be incurred by loan effectiveness.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.      %
[x] The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[1 The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
L Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[signature]
Task Manager: ,c7 Reidinger
[signature]    .
Sector Manager: Geoffrey Fox
[signature]
Country Director: Yukon Huang



Annex 1
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring and Evaluation       Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                            (Goal to Bank Mission)
CAS Objective                1. Continuing increases in  Government data             1. Stable political transition and
1. Promote continued            agricultural production                                maintenance of overall reform
development of sustainable   per unit area                                          program in post-Deng era
techniques to upgrade                                                             2. No large external shocks that
marginal land             2. Reduced water and                                      would affect terms of trade,
2. Incorporate major water      fertilizer use per hectare                             current account balance or
storage, transfer, irrigation,  in grain production areas                           foreign exchange rates
drainage and flood control   in northern China
into projects                                                                     3. Govermnent maintains
3. Promote rational and      3. Grain production increases                             budget allocations for food
sustainable food security    keep pace with increasing                              security programs
programs                     demand
Project Development                                                                  (Development Objectives to CAS
Objective:                                                                             Objective)
1. Agricultural production  1. Grain production         1. Prefecture and county    1. No change in existing policy
increased                    increased in each county    statistics                 framework for agriculture
and prefecture                                         production particularly with
2. Farmers' incomes are      2. Per capita incomes are   2. Prefecture and county      regard to land tenure and
increased                    increased in project areas  statistics                 pricing
3. Establish mechanisms for    3. SIDDs completely       3. Semi-annual progress and   2. Demand for agriculture
sustainable use,             institutionalized for all   monitoring reports and     production continues to grow
development and              appropriate subprojects     Bank missions              at 5% per year.
management of water and    4. Water charges cover O&M                             3. Govermment maintains
land resources in irrigated  costs plus Bank loan                                   commitment for improved
areas                        repayment                                              management of water
resources
Project Outputs                                                                      (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
1. Irrigation and drainage   1. Completion of irrigation  Semi-annual progress and    1) Product prices are maintained
systems are improved and     and drainage works,      monitoring reports and Bank   in real terms
land improvement and land    number of hectares of    missions                    2) Institutional capacity is
reclamation programs are     land improvement,                                      sufficient to manage project
carried out                  number of hectares of                                  activities
land reclamation                                    3) Farmers have sufficient
2. Agriculture support services  2. Farmers receiving                                  incentives for land
are expanded                  improved agricultural                                 improvements, loan repayment
services.                                             and to take over O&M of
3. Forestation programs are  3. Number of hectares with                                project facilities
carried out                  forestation                                          4) SIDD (WSCs and WUAs) will
be established and operated as
4. SIDDs are established     4. SIDDs operational                                      planned to take over
management of irrigation and
drainage systems, with full
goveriunent support
5) Water charges will be raised
I _________________________  __________________________   sufficiently   to   cover  self-



financing costs to ensure
adequate O&M and make
WSCs and WUAs financially
viable; and to make WSCs and
WUAs permanent legal
entities
6) WSCs and WUAs will
adequately take over O&M
responsibilities
Project Components
1. Improvements and
expansion of irrigation and Civil works              Semi-annual progress reports  Counterpart funding is available
drainage systems and land  Consultant services       and Bank missions          and on time
improvements.            Goods
A. Subproject selection and                            Appraisal Summary Sheets    Key inputs such as fertilizer and
definition                                          for Subprojects             construction materials will be
B. Detailed design of                                                              available when needed
subprojects                                          Biannual SOCAD and
C. Implementation of                                   POCAD Supervision Reports  Subproject preparation is
subprojects                                         for Subprojects             according to agreed program
D. Acceptance of completed                                                         approach standards and
subprojects                                          Annual Expert Technical    satisfactory for efficient
Group Reports and          implementation
2. Agriculture support      Civil works                Recommendations on
service.                 Consultant services         Agricultural Intensification    Extraordinary floods, droughts,
A. Detailed definition of   Goods                      and Technology              or earthquakes do not occur
support services needs in    Training
each subproject area                                 Annual Report on Dam       Subproject supervision by
B. Design of support services                           Safety Progress and        SOCAD and POCADs will be
for each subproject                                  Inspections                according to agreed program
C. Implementation of support                                                       approach standards and
services programs in each                            Annual Report on Results of   satisfactory for efficient
subproject area                                      Groundwater Monitoring and  implementation
Development (in Hebei,
3. Forestation              Civil works                Henan and Shandong)         SOCAD and POCADs will
A. Definition of forestation  Consultant services                                  employ/contract sufficient
programs in each subproject Goods                                               qualified additional staff to
area                                                                            efficiently manage
B. Design of forestation                                                           disbursements, the Special
programs in each subproject                                                     Account (by SOCAD) and
area                                                                            procurement; manage and
C. Implementation of                                                               operate the MIS; and provide
forestation programs in each                                                    effective financial management
subproject area                                                                 and supervision of the lower
levels and subprojects
3. Institutional development  Civil works
A. Preparation of manuals and  Consultant services                                 MWR will monitor dam
guidelines for program   Goods                                                  rehabilitation and safety
approach                 Training                                               activities according to agreed
B. Training of personnel for                                                       plans and on time
program approach
C. Implementation of program  I_I                                                I Hebei, Henan and Shandong



approach                                                                       provinces will monitor and report
D. Preparation of SIDD                                                           on groundwater according to
development plans for each                                                     plans and on time
province
E. Selection of SIDD and
WUA pilot areas, a and
establishment of pilot SIDDs
and WUAs by September
30, 1998
F. Expansion of SIDD
development to other parts
of the project area
G. Preparation of detailed MIS
plans
H. Implementation of pilot MIS
by September 30, 1998 and
full MIS by December 31,
1998
I. Establishment of specialized
expert group(s), and
employment of specialized
experts and TA.



Annex 2
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
Project Description
The project covers Hebei, Henan, Shandong, Jiangsu and Anhui Provinces in the Huang-Huai-Hai
Plain with subprojects spread over 1,050 townships in 131 counties in 28 prefectures and cities. The
subproject area in Hebei Province covers 27 counties in 4 prefectures and the cities of Tangshan,
Qinhuangdao, Hengshui and Cangzhou; the sub-project area in Henan Province covers 27 counties in 9
prefectures and the cities of Nanyang, Luoyang, Jiaozuo, Xinxiang, Shangqiu, Kaifeng, Puyang, Jiyang
and Zhumadian; the sub-project area in Shandong Province covers 33 counties in 6 prefectures and the
cities of Heze, Jinan, Jining, Zaozhuang, Tai'an and Dezhou; the sub-project area in Jiangsu Province
covers 24 counties in 5 prefectures and the cities of Xuzhou, Huaiyin, Lianyungang, Xuqian and
Yancheng; the sub-project area in Anhui Province covers 20 counties in 5 prefectures and the cities of
Hefei, Anqing, Liu'an and Chaohu. The main project components are summarized below (costs are base
costs).  For a more detailed description of project components in each province, see the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) and the Project Feasibility Report(s).
Irrigation and Drainage (US$554.4 million)
Irrigation and drainage works, mainly small-scale works, comprise the primary investment
component of the project and would include civil works for irrigation and drainage facilities improvement
and extension and rehabilitation of secondary and tertiary level canals to serve about 1,534,700 ha of low-
and medium-yield cropland. Main items of works and facilities are as follows:
(a) excavation of about 243 million m3 for irrigation and drainage channel construction and
improvement;
(b) construction of about 372,576 canal/drain control and ancillary structures;
(c) construction and rehabilitation of 5,351 pumping stations;
(d) construction and rehabilitation of 45,513 tubewells;
(e) construction of sub-surface pipelines covering 14,160 ha for tubewell irrigation systems;
(f) procurement and installation of sprinkler and drip irrigation systems serving 13,780 ha;
(h) erection of 5,236 km of power lines for rural electricity and power for pumping stations and
tubewells;
(i) construction of 28,006 km of rural and farm roads; and
(j) provision of 5,303 unit/sets of construction and O&M machinery and equipment, and vehicles.
Agricultural Intensification and Support Services (US$163.9 million)
To support and sustain the projected increase in agricultural production in the subproject areas, the
following main items of agricultural intensification and support services would be provided:



(a) land and soil improvement for 714,600 ha of existing cropland through land leveling and deep
plowing;
(b) provision for returning crop residues (shredded wheat stalks) to the soil and more intensive use
of organic fertilizer;
(c) strengthening of production of high quality seeds through improved processing and
establishment of seed processing centers and quality seed farms;
(d) strengthening of existing agricultural extension systems through provision of better facilities
and equipment for 11 county agro-technical extension centers and 312 township agro-technical
extension stations, additional extension staff and training of agro-technical extension staff,
(e) strengthening of existing county/township agricultural machinery service systems with
improved facilities, agricultural machinery and equipment;
(f) establishment of 58 fertilizer blending plants (Anhui 20, Jiangsu 12, Shandong 10, Henan 9,
and Hebei 7) to provide chemical fertilizer formulated based on crop and soil requirements;
(g) construction of 5-6 organic manure digesting pits per village in selected subproject areas
Hebei;
(h) provision of agricultural production inputs and materials, such as chemical fertilizers, low-
toxicity pesticides and plastic membranes for farmers;
(i) promotion of the spread of both improved agricultural science and technology and Integrated
Pest Management (IPM), and training of farmers to enhance the levels of farmers' scientific
fanming technologies in the project area and promote IPM; and
(j) intensification of pest forecasting network with additional pest forecasting stations.
Forestation and Environmental Monitoring (US$46.9 million)
To enhance the crop production environment, the afforestation component would aim to increase
vegetative cover from 10% to 13% in the subproject areas. The main works components are listed below.
(a) establishment of 1,739 ha of tree nurseries to produce tree saplings;
(b) planting of on-farm windbreaks and protective tree belts covering a net occupied area of 55,
767 ha;
(c) pest and disease control of 72,143 ha of on-farm windbreaks and forest belts; and
(d) provision of 617 sets of machinery and 3,853 sets of equipment for tree planting and
maintenance.



Institutional Development and Support (US$54.2 million)
To support the project implementation, management and institutional development, the following
investments would be made:
(a) 10,535 person-months of staff training; in project implementation and management;
(b) 1977 person-months estimated for study tours (about 188 person-months overseas and 1,789
person-months local),
(c) 283 person-months estimated for foreign and local technical assistance for various topics;
(d) 910 person-months for adaptive research on water conservancy, agriculture and SIDD
development;
(e) provision of 368 sets of office equipment;
(f) provision of 146 units of vehicles;
(g) provision of an integrated management information system (MIS) linking the Central SOCAD,
the five provincial POCADs and the 131 county COCADs;
(h) construction of a national MIS and training center for the CAD Program;
(i) environmental monitoring of soil and water; and
(j) provision for launching and expanding the SIDD development throughout the project area.
Survey, Design and Management (US$29.9 million)



Annex 3
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
Estimated Project Costs
The total cost of the project is estimated at Y 7,083.6 million (US$849.3 million equivalent),
including physical and price contingencies of about Y 1,092.2 million. The direct and indirect foreign
exchange component is estimated at about US$300 million equivalent, or about 35 percent of total costs.
The base cost totals Y 5991.5 million (US$721.9 million), of which Y 3,906.7 (US$470.7 million; 65
percent) is for the irrigation and drainage; Y 1,155.5 million (US$139.2 million; 19 percent) is for
agriculture intensification and support services; Y 330.8 million (US$39.9 million; 6 percent) is for the
forestation, environment protection and monitoring; Y 387.5 million (US$46.7 million; 6 percent) is for the
institutional development and support; and Y 211 million (US$25.4 million; 4 percent) is for project survey
design and management. Annex 3(a) summarizes project costs and Annexes 3(b)-3(g) detail the cost
estimates of various components.
The project base costs are expressed in September 1997 prices and include local taxes and duties
computed at about US$34.6 million equivalent. The unit costs and estimated annual quantities are based
on typical designs with a uniform physical and technical standard for each province. Cost estimates for
civil works are derived from costs of activities recently completed under the LIL 1 Project and similar
recent works in each province. Cost estimates for electrical and mechanical equipment, materials, and
vehicles are based on recent quotations from manufacturers and suppliers or prices of similar goods that
were recently purchased. Consultant staff costs are based on the experience in the country with recent
consulting contracts for similar tasks. Physical contingencies is about 10 percent for all civil works items
based on the detailed engineering designs of the subprojects.
The Bank's standard local and foreign inflation rates were used over the project's five-year
implementation period. For costs expressed in US dollars, the expected price increase is estimated at 2.5,
3.1, 2.9, 2.8, and 2.7 percent for 1998-2002. For costs expressed in yuan, the annual rates are 2.1, 2.0,
4.8, 5.0, and 5.5 percent for 1998-2002.



Annex 3(a)
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
Components Project Cost Summary
Components Project Cost Summary                                          (RMB '000)                          (US$ '000)              Foreign   Base
Local     Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign      Total    Exchange  Costs
A. Irrigation and Drainage
1. Anhui                                                     494,098.7   222,611.9   716,710.5    59,530.0    26,820.7    86,350.7      31      12
2. Hebei                                                     450,699.3   219,135.8   669,835.1    54,301.1    26,401.9    80,703.0      33      11
3. Henan                                                     619,300.3   231,806.7   851,107.0    74,614.5    27,928.5   102,543.0      27      14
4. Jiangsu                                                   609,194.6   261,343.6   870,538.1    73,396.9    31,487.2   104,884.1      30      15
5. Shandong                                                  555,632.7   242,899.1   798,531.7    66,943.7    29,264.9    96,208.6      30      13
Subtotal Irrigation and Drainage                             2,728,925.4  1,177,797.0  3,906,722.4   328,786.2   141,903.3   470,689.4    30     65
B. Agriculture Intensification and Services
1. Anhui                                                     115,955.3    98,985.3   214,940.6    13,970.5    11,925.9    25,896.5      46       4
2. Hebei                                                      96,694.3    93,179.8   189,874.1    11,649.9    11,226.5    22,876.4      49       3
3. Henan                                                     118,420.8   112,274.8   230,695.7    14,267.6    13,527.1    27,794.7      49       4
4. Jiangsu                                                   113,041.2   146,609.5   259,650.7    13,619.4    17,663.8    31,283.2      56       4
5. Shandong                                                  143,217.0   117,092.5   260,309.5    17,255.1    14,107.5    31,362.6      45       4
Subtotal Agriculture Intensification and Services              587,328.6   568,142.0  1,155,470.6    70,762.5    68,450.8   139,213.3     49     19
C. Afforestation, Environment Protection & Monitoring
1. Anhui                                                      45,367.6    15,001.0    60,368.6    5,466.0     1,807.3     7,273.3       25       1
2. Hebei                                                      44,586.3    17,680.5    62,266.7    5,371.8     2,130.2     7,502.0       28       1
3. Henan                                                      51,942.9    20,476.3    72,419.2    6,258.2     2,467.0     8,725.2       28       1
4. Jiangsu                                                    38,954.6    13,829.9    52,784.4    4,693.3     1,666.2     6,359.6       26       1
5. Shandong                                                   62,230.6    20,698.5    82,929.1    7,497.7     2,493.8     9,991.5       25       1
Subtotal Afforestation, Environment Protection & Monitoring    243,081.9    87,686.2   330,768.1    29,287.0    10,564.6    39,851.6     27       6
D. Institutional Development and Support
1. Anhui                                                       7,657.0    28,855.7    36,512.6      922.5     3,476.6     4,399.1       79       1
2. Hebei                                                       8,713.8    25,047.5    33,761.3    1,049.9     3,017.8     4,067.6       74       1
3. Henan                                                      27,850.5    38,099.4    65,950.0    3,355.5     4,590.3     7,945.8       58       1
4. Jiangsu                                                    24,471.7    35,864.9    60,336.7    2,948.4     4,321.1     7,269.5       59       1
5. Shandong                                                   32,353.4    43,647.2    76,000.6    3,898.0     5,258.7     9,156.7       57       1
6. SOCAD                                                      35,664.6    79,288.4   114,953.0    4,296.9     9,552.8    13,849.8       69       2
Subtotal Institutional Development and Support                 136,711.1   250,803.1   387,514.2    16,471.2    30,217.2    46,688.5     65       6
E. Project Survey Design and Management
1. Anhui                                                      31,023.3     5,474.7    36,498.0    3,737.7       659.6     4,397.3       15       1
2. Hebei                                                      26,714.0     4,714.2    31,428.2    3,218.6       568.0     3,786.5       15       1
3. Henan                                                      44,935.8     7,929.9    52,865.7    5,414.0       955.4     6,369.4       15       1
4. Jiangsu                                                    38,499.7     6,794.1    45,293.8    4,638.5       818.6     5,457.1       15       1
5. Shandong                                                   38,172.7     6,736.4    44,909.0    4,599.1       811.6     5,410.7       15       1
Subtotal Project Survey Design and Management                  179,345.5    31,649.2   210,994.7    21,607.9    3,813.2    25,421.0       15      4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                          3,875,392.5  2,116,077.5  5,991,470.0   466,914.8   254,949.1    721,863.9  35    100
Physical Contingencies                                       379,928.6   208,340.9   588,269.5    45,774.5    25,101.3    70,875.8      35      10
Price Contingencies                                          327,445.5   176,466.3   503,911.8    36,695.3    19,870.8    56,566.2      35      8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                           4,582,766.6  2,500,884.7  7,083,651.3   549,384.6   299,921.2   849,305.8   35    118



Annex 3(b)
Agriculture Intensification II Project
Estimated Project Costs by Irrigated Area
Project Component                                        Local I  Foreign        Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
A. Irrigation and Drainage                      _______
- Anhui Subproject Area                                  59.53       26.82        86.35
- Hebei Subproject Area                                  54.30       26.40        80.70
- Henan Subproject Area                                  74.61       27.93       102.54
- Jiangsu Subproject Area                                73.40       31.49       104.88
- Shandong Subproject Area                               66.94       29.26        96.21
Subtotal Irrigation and Drainage                        328.78      141.90       470.69
B. Agriculture Intensification and Support Services
-_Anhui Subproject Area                                  13.97       11.93        25.90
- Hebei Subproject Area                                  11.65       11.23        22.88
- Henan Subproject Area                                  14.27       13.53        27.79
- Jiangsu Subproject Area                                13.62       17.66        31.28
- Shandong Subproject Area                               17.26       14.11        31.36
Subtotal Agriculture Intensification and Support Services  70.76     68.45       139.21
C. Afforestation, Environment Protection & Moitong _
- Anhui Subproject Area                                   5.47        1.81         7.27
- Hebei Subproject Area                                   5.37        2.13         7.50
- Henan Subproject Area                                   6.26        2.47         8.73
- Jiangsu Subproject Area                                 4.69        1.67         6.36
- Shandong Subproject Area                                7.50        2.49         9.99
Subtotal Afforestation & Environment Monitoring          29.29       10.56        39.85
D. Institutional Development and Support        _    _ _                     _
- Anhui Subproject Area                                   0.92        3.48         4.40
- Hebei Subproject Area                                   1.05        3.02         4.07
- Henan Subproject Area                                   3.36        4.59         7.95
- Jiangsu Subproject Area                                 2.95        4.32         7.27
- Shandong Subproject Area                                3.90        5.26         9.16
- SOCAD                                                   4.30        9.55         13.85
Subtotal Institutional Development and Support           16.47       30.22        46.69
E. Project Survey, Design and Management
- Anhui Subproject Area                                   3.74        0.66         4.40
- Hebei Subproject Area                                   3.22        0.57         3.79
- Henan Subproject Area                                   5.41        0.96         6.37
- Jiangsu Subproject Area                                 4.64        0.82         5.46
- Shandong Subproject Area                                4.60        0.81         5.41
Subtotal Project Survey, Design and Management           21.61        3.81        25.42
Total Base Cost                                         466.91      254.95       721.86
Physical Contingencies                                45.77        25.10        70.88
Price Contingencies                                   36.70        19.87        56.57
Total Project Cost                                      549.38      299.92       849.31



Annex 3(c)
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
Estimated Project Costs
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
%    % Total
(RMB '000)                       (US$ 000)              Foreign   Base
Local     Foreign     Total      Local     Foreign      Total    Exchan   Costs
ge
I. Investrnent Costs
A. Civil Works and structure        2,075,082.8   648,326.7  2,723,409.5   250,010.0   78,111.7   328,121.6  24     45
B. On-Farm Works                    1,204,617.3   301,154.3  1,505,771.7   145,134.6   36,283.7   181,418.3  20    25
C. Equipment & Machines              259,113.3   781,666.5  1,040,779.8    31,218.5   94,176.7   125,395.2  75      17
D. Vehicles                           11,285.6   26,250.5   37,536.1     1,359.7    3,162.7    4,522.4      70      1
E. Planting & Production Materials     4,958.0   94,202.1    99,160.2     597.4   11,349.7    11,947.0      95      2
F. Training and Study Tours
Domestic                                   -   119,745.5   119,745.5        -    14,427.2    14,427.2    100       2
Foreign                                    -    18,400.0   18,400.0         -     2,216.9    2,216.9     100       -
Subtotal Training and Study Tours           -   138,145.5   138,145.5         -    16,644.0    16,644.0    100      2
G. Research/Study/demonstration       85,026.3    21,256.6   106,282.9   10,244.1   2,561.0    12,805.2     20      2
H. Consultants                              -     2,928.1    2,928.1          -      352.8       352.8     100       -
I. Survey, Design & Engineering      201,190.9   44,704.3  245,895.1    24,239.9    5,386.1    29,625.9     18      4
J. Building Complex                   18,750.0    56,250.0   75,000.0    2,259.0    6,777.1    9,036.1      75       1
K Land Acquisition                    15,000.0         -    15,000.0     1,807.2         -     1,807.2       -       -
L. Others                                368.3    1,192.9    1,561.2       44.4      143.7       188.1      76
3,875,392.5  2,116,077.5  5,991,470.0   466,914.8  254,949.1   721,863.9  35    100
Physical Contingencies               379,928.6   208,340.9   588,269.5   45,774.5   25,101.3    70,875.8    35     10
Price Contingencies                  327,445.5   176,466.3  503,911.8   36,695.3   19,870.8    56,566.2     35      8
4,582,766.6  2,500,884.7  7,083,651.3   549,384.6  299,921.2   849,305.8  35    118



Annex 3(d)
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
Project Components by Year -- Totals Including Contingencies
(RMB '000)
1998       1999       2000        2001        2002       Total
A. Irrigation and Drainage
1.Anhui                                               55,189.9   171,380.4   254,310.1   255,252.1   116,826.9   852,959.4
2. Hebei                                              44,833.1   195,410.6   196,802.7   210,773.7   151,186.9   799,006.9
3. Henan                                              177,873.6   249,834.9   223,523.2   216,394.1   132,876.8  1,000,502.7
4. Jiangsu                                            105,364.5   309,053.1   252,310.7   251,131.6   106,514.0  1,024,374.0
5. Shandong                                            98,125.6   205,031.7   233,418.2   257,160.5   155,178.2   948,914.2
Subtotal Irrigation and Drainage                       481,386.8  1,130,710.7  1,160,365.0  1,190,711.9   662,582.8  4,625,757.2
B. Agriculture Intensification and Services
1. Anhui                                               15,854.8    50,198.2    75,556.5    76,120.8    38,452.8   256,183.2
2. Hebei                                               13,900.1    57,755.1    60,532.9    53,795.9    39,791.9   225,775.9
3. Henan                                               64,379.9    61,334.2    57,993.0    53,126.1    33,151.5   269,984.7
4. Jiangsu                                            29,021.1    80,849.0    80,422.3    84,773.4    31,416.7   306,482.4
5. Shandong                                            27,552.7    66,971.1    79,846.5    81,264.3    54,155.1   309,789.6
Subtotal Agriculture Intensification and Services      150,708.7   317,107.4   354,351.2   349,080.5   196,968.0  1,368,215.8
C. Afforestation, Environment Protection & Monitoring
1.Anhui                                                4,526.2    14,484.3    21,164.5    20,999.3    10,737.0    71,911.1
2. Hebei                                                4,486.0    19,413.7    18,472.3    17,965.5    13,774.2    74,111.6
3. Henan                                               15,413.5    20,710.7    18,496.3    18,286.9    12,316.3    85,223.7
4. Jiangsu                                             6,849.6    17,724.9    15,064.9    14,106.2    8,517.5    62,263.1
5. Shandong                                            17,430.5    24,978.0    21,905.5    21,936.1    11,071.3    97,321.5
Subtotal Afforestation, Environment Protection & Monitoring  48,705.7    97,311.6    95,103.4    93,294.0    56,416.2   390,831.0
D. Institutional Development and Support
1. Anhui                                               14,814.8    10,120.0   8,465.9     5,242.7     3,505.3    42,148.7
2. Hebei                                                4,275.0    12,472.1    8,775.4    8,528.3     5,745.3    39,796.0
3. Henan                                               29,598.0    24,081.4    10,180.0   7,281.4     4,344.4    75,485.1
4. Jiangsu                                             14,422.1    29,489.6    13,798.5   8,800.8     3,003.4    69,514.4
5. Shandong                                             9,380.7    32,192.2    18,847.8    16,658.5    12,190.4    89,269.6
6. SOCAD                                               40,596.1    84,935.0    2,989.7    2,513.7     2,386.2   133,420.7
Subtotal Institutional Development and Support         113,086.7   193,290.5    63,057.2    49,025.3    31,174.9   449,634.6
E. Project Survey Design and Management
1. Anhui                                               4,445.4     8,030.6    11,998.9    11,542.2    7,423.7    43,440.7
2. Hebei                                                3,381.5    9,540.9     9,939.8    8,555.7     5,803.6    37,221.4
3. Henan                                               14,251.5    14,327.3    12,945.4    12,293.1   8,125.7    61,943.0
4. Jiangsu                                              5,209.8    15,615.1    13,193.5    13,671.3   5,680.3    53,370.1
5. Shandong                                             6,888.1    11,940.5    12,494.9    12,756.2   9,157.9    53,237.6
Subtotal Project Survey Design and Management           34,176.3    59,454.4    60,572.5    58,818.5    36,191.1   249,212.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     828,064.1  1,797,874.6  1,733,449.3  1,740,930.3   983,333.1  7,083,651.3



Annex 3(e)
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs                                               Base Cost (RMB '000)                           Foreign
Exchange
1998         1999        2000         2001          2002         Total       %        Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works and structure                    299,958.8    687,704.8    689,627.2    680,226.6    365,892.1   2,723,409.5    23.8     648,326.7
B. On-Farm Works                                212,244.5    397,345.2    373,060.1    344,406.2    178,715.8   1,505,771.7    20.0     301,154.3
C. Equipment & Machines                          98,349.9    280,726.9    270,899.1    255,401.6    135,402.2   1,040,779.8    75.1     781,666.5
D. Vehicles                                      20,609.5     12,924.3      2,333.6       733.3         935.4     37,536.1     69.9     26,250.5
E. Planting & Production Materials               10,146.6     24,468.0     23,783.5     27,881.8     12,880.3     99,160.2    95.0      94,202.1
F. Training and Study Tours
Domestic                                       19,911.6     29,801.0     29,970.9     24,479.4     15,582.6    119,745.5    100.0     119,745.5
Foreign                                         1,480.0      6,440.0      6,480.0      4,000.0           -      18,400.0   100.0      18,400.0
Subtotal Training and Study Tours                21,391.6     36,241.0     36,450.9     28,479.4     15,582.6     138,145.5    100.0    138,145.5
G. Research/Study/demonstration                  13,962.4     25,374.0     24,312.6     25,387.5     17,246.3     106,282.9    20.0     21,256.6
H. Consultants                                     413.9        773.4        712.4         584.4        444.1      2,928.1    100.0      2,928.1
I. Survey, Design & Engineering                  38,213.8     59,995.1     59,617.4     54,537.6     33,531.2    245,895.1     18.2     44,704.3
J. Building Complex                              15,000.0     60,000.0           -            -            -      75,000.0    75.0       56,250.0
K. Land Acquisition                              15,000.0           -            -            -            -      15,000.0       -             -
L. Others                                          178.0        551.4        258.1        278.3        295.4       1,561.2    76.4       1,192.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                              745,469.0   1,586,104.1   1,481,054.9   1,417,916.6    760,925.3   5,991,470.0  35.3   2,116,077.5
Physical Contingencies                           73,990.8    157,357.0    144,438.7    138,301.0     74,182.0    588,269.5     35.4    208,340.9
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                         5,708.5     34,795.8     70,384.1    119,776.3     95,922.2    326,586.8       -            -
Foreign                                       3,502.7     26,333.3     41,056.1     55,586.4     38,449.4    164,927.8    100.0    164,927.8
Subtotal Inflation                              9,211.1     61,129.1    111,440.2    175,362.7    134,371.5    491,514.5    33.6      164,927.8
Devaluation                                     -606.8      -6,715.6     -3,484.5      9,350.0     13,854.2     12,397.3    93.1      11,538.5
Subtotal Price Contingencies                      8,604.3     54,413.4    107,955.7    184,712.7    148,225.7    503,911.8    35.0      176,466.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                                828,064.1   1,797,874.6   1,733,449.3   1,740,930.3    983,333.1   7,083,651.3    35.3   2,500,884.7
Taxes                                            33,002.4     74,980.1     70,366.4     70,429.1     39,624.0    288,402.1       -
Foreign Exchange                                283,154.9    664,142.2    607,266.4    605,815.0    340,506.2   2,500,884.7      -             -



m.g                             - a
g rw4'S gn-4..>on3           ..r...... |I..  Og .             s.
P -~          'q .p|                          F eF ojy   t t      '     0- 8  j    '  I  j'a
Wo~~~~~~~~~I                                . . . .Wx . .  -X@*X&@.... ...... .. .. o ..._
iD   b  b  o o-o _~~~~~~~.      .             >             ......  @ .  .  .e .  .   .   .  ..  .
i  P  ;  5   h  al ^  N  N  . '   e  .   .  .  .  .  . . .     . .   .    .    O. ,  
a _                                                                  I:N  P ON
S mh .  . . . .  . . .  . hh -.                             --hh
_~-'        :. b. . .      ..  .              w .... a.e
m.tj  O,   Otn,w    o                |  3           ow E...            . | 9  8 Y  S N
p~'  mU     m             we                  N'                                  K  84e Dptp N |  
Pr.P               -                                              bit1 8t1|  ^88    
.jL   hb,   -ao     S |  . |,                  -  '3  |,,,,,..   flJt9 
r0S  ZJ3         $3r -%  |O                                 nj,.o7| f|     l  N 
a     .   h-b .a.  ao   .iot. ,               ow   3 O  .  w.bL..iNA   awm @m
*        a                                                       .-     a.-J'N38g         l!g-| 8| :!   
P~ ~ N  N                                                                ; p  KI '
3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ z N3  al                   .O .*  .|E   bN@  .



Annex 4
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
Financial and Economic Analysis
To assess financial and economic viability, the financial rates of return and economic rates of
return for a period of 20 years have been calculated separately for each irrigation area, and aggregated for
project areas in Anhui, Henan, Hebei, Jiangsu, and Shandong provinces, and for the project as whole.
Given the price and cost structures in each subproject area, as well as the objectives of the project, rates of
return for all subprojects are acceptable. The results are summarized in Annexes 4 (a) and (b).
Financial Analysis
The estimated FRRs on all individual irrigation areas ranged from 14.1 percent in Guangli
irrigation area to 21.9 percent in Puqingnan irrigation area. The overall project (irrigation/drainage area)
FRR is 18.3, ranging from 17.0 in Anhui to 19.1 percent in Jiangsu.
Economic Analysis
The comparison of costs and benefits over a period of 20 years reveals that the estimated ERRs for
the overall project and individual irrigation areas are all favorable. For overall project, the ERR is 23.9
percent, discounted economic benefits total Y 30.6 billion, discounted costs total Y 24.3 billion, and the
net present value is Y6.2 billion.
T he ERRs for individual irrigation areas range from 17.6 percent in the Guangli irrigation area of
Henan province to 25.9 percent in the Jiyun River irrigation area of Hebei. Among provinces, the ERRs
range from 22.3 percent for Anhui to 25.4 percent for Hebei. Variations depend on the assumed crop
yields, the years to reach a stable stage, cropping intensity, cropping pattern, the size of the irrigated and
planted area, and the investment, production and the O&M costs for each type of scheme. The detailed
results of economic analysis for each irrigation area are summarized in Annex 4 (b).
Impact on Production and Farm Income
Substantial increases in cropping intensities and yields are expected as a result of project
investments. Total grain production in the project area is expected to rise by 34 percent with the project,
with substantial additional increases in cash crops, timber and forage for livestock; the total estimated
value of incremental production is some Y 6,660.6 million annually. This will substantial increase
disposable real farm income, estimated on average to rise by over 42 percent for low income families, 30
percent for medium income families and 27 percent for high income families by the sixth year of the
project. This indicates strong financial incentives for farmers to participate in the project, and the farmers'
ability to pay the costs of the project.



Annex 4 (a)
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
(Yan Million in 1997)
Present Value of Flows   | Present Value of Flows
Financial    Analysis      Economic    Analysis
Sub-projects                        Costs        Benefits       Costs        Benefits
Anhui Subproject Area               3908.3       4482.3         3645.5       4515.3
Hebei SubprojectArea                5812.1       6652.7         5691.7       6892.0
Henan Subproject Area               5647.3       6534.6         5509.5       6719.1
Jiangsu Subproject Area             5262.9       6316.3         5181.0       6662.7
Shandong Subproject Area            4534.8       5500.0         4288.9       5763.9
Total Project Area             25165.4      29485.9        24316.5      30553.0
Main Assumptions
Financial Analysis. The main assumptions for the financial analysis were:
(a) The analysis has been expressed in 1997 prices. Input and output prices used in the crop
budgets for financial analysis of the project are either 1997 average free market prices or
official prices (cotton) in each sub-project area, and are based on data provided by the project
authorities.
(b) The opportunity cost of capital (OCC) in China is estimated at 12 percent.
(c) The economic life has been assumed to be 20 years for all irrigation civil works, and 10 years
for equipment and vehicles.
(d) Total investment costs include taxes, duties, contingencies, and the cost of Huaiyin Pumping
Station No. 2 in Jiangsu province, but not the cost of institutional support for SOCAD.
(e) Annual operation and maintenance costs for irrigation and drainage facilities cover repair,
maintenance, electricity, fuel, management, overhead, depreciation, etc. for with- and without-
project scenarios.
(f) Financial benefits from each irrigation area were based on detailed crop budgets prepared for
annual and perennial crops, reflecting representative scenarios in each subproject area.
(g) The amount applied of seeds, fertilizers and farm chemicals are the actual average levels in
each area as reported in the 'National Agricultural Products Costs and Profit" compiled by the
Price Management Department of SPC. Labor for on-farm works, and agricultural production
labor was priced at the prevailing wage rate of YI0/day.
(h) Projected yield increase are based on the experience with the IAIL 1 Project. The without-
project situation yields are based on current average yield for medium and low yield land in
each area. Achievement of full development yields was assumed over 2-3 years for partially
irrigated land and 3-4 years for dry land, depending on the soil and water conditions in each



subproject area. Based on the planned phasing of investment expenditure in each province
over 5 years, crop yields will reach full development in the Year 9 in all provinces, except
Shandong where they will reach fill development in Year 11. Forestry output will start from
Year 11. The projected agricultural yields and production are based on existing models and
systems, and are therefore realistic and sustainable, and would provide both safety and
adequate incomes for all farmers in the project area.
(i) The increased production of food and cash crops will be readily absorbed, predominantly by
the local markets in the project area, supplemented by export to other national markets if
necessary.
(j) Agricultural taxes differ according to the crop being cultivated: Y15-30 per mu for grain and
most other crops, 8 percent of net income for melons, 10 percent of net income for timber, and
10-12 percent of net income for fruit. In addition, forest production is charged Y 60 per cubic
meter harvested for the forestation fund in Anhui.
(k) The cost for irrigation water varies substantially based on the water volume used, irrigation
efficiency, net volume used, and operating and maintenance costs 'With- and without-project"
in different subproject areas. The analysis has calculated different prices for each subproject
area, assuming that the water charge will be increased to cover operating and maintenance
costs and depreciation in the "with project" case.
Economic Analysis. The economic analysis followed the assumptions used in the financial
analysis, except for the differences indicated below:
(a) All project costs, including project investment and production costs, physical contingencies,
O&M costs, and sunk costs for Huaiyin Pumping Station No. 2, have been considered in
estimating the economic costs of the project, but price contingencies, taxes, duties and other
charges were omitted.  Labor contributed for civil works, on-farm  construction and
agricultural production has been shadow-priced at the prevailing wage rate of Y10/day.
(b) World Bank commodity price projections or export prices actually realized in China were used
to estimate farmgate prices in constant 1997 terms. These were then used to calculate the
farmgate value of wheat, maize, paddy rice, soybean, cotton, peanuts, and fertilizers, with
appropriate adjustments for domestic and international transport and handling costs for each
sub-project area. A standard conversion factor of 1 was applied to all non-traded items.
(c) All economic values were converted to local currency at the prevailing official exchange rate of
Y8.3 to US$1.0, and a discount rate of 12 percent was used to approximate the opportunity
cost of capital in China.
Based on the above assumptions, detailed rate-of-return calculations were carried out at three
levels: (a) all 25 individual irrigation areas; (b) aggregated subproject areas for each of the five provinces;
and (e) the project as a whole.  This analysis included the quantifiable benefits derived through
improvements in irrigation and drainage facilities, mid- and low-yield farmland, agricultural services, and
the eco-environmental system. It also included estimated economic costs, but not the benefits, from
institutional development and improved environmental management.



Sensitivity Analysis
Switching Values. Sensitivity analysis for all subprojects was carried out with switching values to
determine the effects of deviation from the main assumptions on the economic viability of the project, to
identify levels at which the project would become economically nonviable, and to specify how far the total
costs (including operating, input and investment costs) could rise or benefits (the yield or output price)
could fall. The analysis shows that the overall project remains viable with significant changes in cost or
benefits. The results indicate that the ERR of the whole project would fall to 12 percent when incremental
benefits decrease by 20.4 percent or total incremental costs increase by 25.6 percent. In most cases,
benefits are more sensitive than costs.
The economic sensitivity and risk analysis of all subprojects was calculated and evaluated with
sensitivity analyses using a variety of data and assumptions required for estimation of the ERRs. Even
with consideration of the risks, the estimated ERRs for all subprojects equal or exceed the opportunity cost
of capital (OCC) of 12 percent. In addition, measures have been taken to reduce these risks or their effects.
The results of the sensitivity analysis for the base case and risks that were quantified are summarized in
annex 4 (c).
Risks. The major risks associated with the project are:
(a) natural disasters of drought, waterlogging, heat waves, and pest infestation. According to
hydrologic data and local meteorological statistics from each sub-project area, there is drought
(P=75%) or waterlogging every three to four years, and localized heat waves or  pest
infestations about once in four years in project areas. During the drought or the heat wave
years, the area typically faces water deficit between April-June. This would reduce yields of
wheat and paddy by 5 to 10 percent through reduced irrigation water supplied. Waterlogging
and pest infestation typically reduce yields of maize by 10 percent and cotton by 5-10 percent.
Impact on other crops would be minimal. Reduced yields of 5-10 percent for wheat and
cotton, and 10 percent for paddy and maize once every four years in different subproject areas,
on average, due to the above disasters, have been adopted in the risk analyses over the 20-year
life span for the project. This reduces the ERR of the project from 22.3 percent to 19 percent,
and net present value from Y 895.8 million to Y 544.7 million.
(b) reduced benefits from lower canal system efficiency. With the irrigation improvement and
extension, the overall canal system efficiency will increase from 40 percent on average
(without project) to about 55-60 percent for lined canals, and 50-55 percent for improved earth
canals (with project) which is the design efficiency currently used in determining irrigation
supply and demand under the project. The level of efficiency is a key factor in determining the
amount of dry and partially irrigated land that can be improved and developed for full
irrigation. Canal system efficiency is influenced by the size of the irrigation scheme,
topography, soil conditions, extent of canal lining, quality of construction, and standard of
operation and maintenance, and there is a significant risk of not achieving the designed canal
efficiency. Risk and sensitivity analysis has been conducted by assuming lower efficiency
values by 50 percent (50 percent for earth canal and 60 percent for lined canals), which would
reduce irrigation water supply. An optimal cropping pattern has been used in the analysis to
minimize the benefits lost in agricultural production and retain the irrigation area for multiple
cropping with reduced irrigation water volume from  full to partial irrigation.  Local
experimental data shows that the incremental crop yields will be reduced by about 20-30
percent on average for paddy, wheat, maize, cotton, rapeseed and vegetables under these



assumptions. This would reduce the ERR of the whole project from 23.9 percent to 17.4
percent, and the net present value from Y 6,236.4 million to Y 2,692.1 million.
(c) Reduction in the market-determined prices of major crops (wheat, maize, paddy, vegetable and
cotton). If price dropped by 10-15 percent in all project areas, the analysis shows that in the
base case ERRs would fall from 22.3 percent to 17.5 percent in Anhui, 22.9 percent to 18.5
percent in Henan, 25.4 percent to 18.7 percent in Hebei, 24.4 percent to 20.1 percent in
Jiangsu, and 24.1 percent to 17.8 percent in Shandong. The overall reduction in project
benefits would be 5.3 percent. These assumptions are conservative because the project's
incremental production is dispersed over wide areas in five provinces, it is unlikely that prices
of all crops would fall drastically in all these places at the same time.
(d) delay of project implementation or project benefits (delay in achieving stable crop yields
assumed in the base model) by two years. This could be due to: (i) lack of timely and adequate
counterpart funds to finance project activities; (ii) inadequate institutional capacity for project
implementation; or (iii) slow improvement of low-yield land and soil amelioration. The
associated risks arising from delay in project implementation have been reflected in the
economic analysis. The ERR is recalculated by assuming conservative crop yields which
would not increase in the first 2 years, and would reach full development after 4-5 years for
partial irrigated land and 5-6 years for dry land. A two-year delay in implementation would
reduce net benefits (NPV) by 10 percent for Anhui , 5.7 percent for Henan, 6.8 percent for
Hebei, 8.2 percent for Jiangsu, and 8.3 percent for Shandong, with an overall project benefit
reduction of 7.8 percent.
In all the above cases, ERRs of subprojects and the project as a whole remain above the OCC of
12 percent. In addition, measures have been incorporated in the project to minimize the effects of these
risks, including:
(a) establishing primary protecting forestry belts at the fringes of irrigation districts and on-farmn
shelter belts and windbreaks;
(b) promoting and extending water-saving irrigation technologies;
(c) increasing conjunctive use of available groundwater with surface water;
(d) extensive construction of canal lining throughout the canal system, improved system operation
and maintenance, and establishment of a computerized system for monitoring, simulating and
dispatching of irrigation water and for drought and waterlogging crisis management;
(e) ensuring provision of timely and adequate counterpart funds through firm commitments from
local financing sources and from each province, and SOCAD commitment to take steps to
ensure local counterpart funding is provided;
(f) setting up project management mechanisms, recruiting experienced staff, providing training to
PMO staff at all levels, etc., to ensure smooth implementation of the project.



Annex 4(b)
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary for Irrigation Areas
(Yuan Million in 1997)
Financial                         Economic
Province/Irrigation Areas       Inc. Net Benefits   FRR (%/6)      Inc. Net Benefits   ERR
Anhui Subproject Areas
-Pishihang Irrigation Area        162.6             16.8          261.1                22.3
-Pump Irrigation Area              65.6             16.9           98.1                21.9
-Polder Irrigation Area           206.3             17.2          314.3                22.8
-Hualiangting irrigation Area      73.3             16.9           102.6               21.3
-Medium Reservoir Irrigation Area  66.2             17.2           93.8                22.6
Subtotal Anhui Irrigation Area    573.9             17.0          869.8                22.3
Shandong Subproject Areas
-Diversion Yellow River Irr. Area  435.4            17.6           671.4               22.9
-Well Irrigation Area             424.5             19.1           630.5               25.7
-River and Lake Irrigation Area   105.2             17.8            173.0              24.5
Subtotal Shandong Irrigation Area  965.2            18.2          1474.9               24.1
Jiangsu Subproject Areas
- Yinxi Irrigation Area           194.1             18.5           277.3               23.4
- Yinanyibei Irrigation Area      486.9             18.9           686.3               24.1
- Hongze Irrigation Area          201.2             19.4           285.2               25.3
-Yanhai Irrigation Area           171.2             20.0           232.9               25.8
Subtotal Jiangsu Irrigation Area  1053.4            19.1          1481.7               24.4
Henan Subproject Areas
- Guangli Irrigation Area          16.9             14.1             38.8              17.6
- Sanyizhai Irrigation Area       264.7             17.3           319.8               20.5
- Luhun Irrigation Area           122.3             19.2            211.8              27.9
- Yahekou Irrigation Area         192.1             17.8            257.2              23.2
- Banqiao Irrigation Area          68.0             19.8            105.1              28.8
- Dagong Irrigation Area           81.4             18.2            112.6              21.8
- Puqingnan Irrigation Area       142.0             21.9            164.3              25.2
Subtotal Henan Irrigation Area    887.3             18.2           1209.6              22.9
Hebei Subproject Areas
- Luanhe River Irrigation Area   245.2              18.3           366.8               25.2
-Jiyun River Irrigation Area      126.7             19.2           178.8               25.9
- Yang River Irrigation Area       38.0             17.4            61.1               24.8
-Qinglong River Irrigation Area    40.1             16.8            66.9               22.9
-Yellow River Irrigation Area     336.0             20.0           442.5               26.4
- Baiyangdian Irrigation Area      54.6             18.4            81.3               24.2
Subtotal Hebei Irrigation Area   840.6              18.9          1200.4               25.4
Total Project                    4230.4             18.3          6236.4               23.9



Annex 4(c)
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
(Yuan Million in 1997)
Total Incremental Benefits      Total Incremental Costs
Sub-      Base      Switching  Percentage  Base     Switching  Percentage
projects    Value   Value      Change     Value     Value      Change
A. Base Case
- Anhui Subprojects    4515.3   3645.5    19.3         3645.5   4515.3    23.9
- Hebei Subprojects    6892.0   5691.7    17.4        5691.7   6892.0    21.1
- Henan Subprojects    6719.1    5509.5    18.0       5509.5    6719.1    22.0
- Jiangsu Subproject    6662.7    5181.0    22.2       5181.0   6662.7    28.6
- Shandong Subproject  5763.9   4288.9    25.6        4288.9   5763.9    34.4
Total Project Area    30553.0  24316.5   20.4          24316.5  30553.0   25.6
B. Risk from Markets
- Anhui Subprojects    4095.5    3645.5    11.0       3645.5    4095.5    12.3
- Hebei Subprojects    6247.3    5731.2     8.3        5731.2   6247.3      9.0
- Henan Subprojects    6216.3    5509.5    11.4       5509.5   6216.3    12.8
- Jiangsu Subproject    6130.6   5181.0    15.5       5181.0   6130.6    18.3
- Shandong Subproject  4947.2   4288.9    13.3        4288.9   4947.2    15.3
Total Project Area    27663.9  24316.5   12.1          24316.5  27663.9   13.8
C. Risk from Natural
Disaster
- Anhui Subprojects    4190.2   3645.5     13.0       3645.5   4190.2    14.9
- Hebei Subprojects   6690.2   5131.2    23.3          5131.2   6690.2    30.4
- Henan Subprojects    6425.3    5509.7    14.0       5509.7   6425.3    16.6
- Jiangsu Subproject    6306.6   5181.0    17.8       5181.0   6306.6    21.7
- Shandong Subproject  5364.2   4288.9    20.0        4288.9   5364.2    25.1
Total Project Area    28976.6  24419.6   15.7          24419.6  28976.6   18.7
D. Risk from Low Canal
Efficiency
- Anhui Subprojects    4173.5    3645.5    12.7        3645.5   4173.5    14.5
- Hebei Subprojects    6090.6   5808.8    4.6          5808.8   6090.6    4.9
- Henan Subprojects    5781.6   5508.3    4.7         5508.3    5781.6    5.0
- Jiangsu Subproject    6009.0   5181.0    13.8        5181.0   6009.0    16.0
- Shandong Subproject  5069.9   4288.9    15.4        4288.9   5069.9    18.2
Total Project Area    27124.6  24432.5   9.9           24432.5  27124.6   11.0
E. Risk caused by Low
Institutional Capacity
- Anhui Subprojects    3662.7   3645.5    0.5         3645.5    3662.7    0.5
- Hebei Subprojects    5769.9   5114.8    11.4         5114.8   5769.9    12.8
- Henan Subprojects    5554.9   4894.0    11.9         4894.0   5554.9    13.5
- Jiangsu Subproject    5807.2   5181.0    10.8        5181.0   5807.2    12.1
- Shandong Subproject  4819.5    4288.9    11.0        4288.9   4819.5    12.4
Total Project Area    25614.2  23124.2   9.7           23124.2  25614.2   10.8



Annex 4(d)
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
Income Impact on Typical Households
(Yuan Million in 1997)
Agriculture              Present  Net (1997)  Per       Future   Net Income
Components/Area          Family   Income        Capita   Year 6   Per Capita    Growth
Size     Family       Yuan    Family   Yuan          Rate %
Anhui Province
Low income household     5.0       2852.0       570.4   3775.0   755.0         31.9
Middle income household  4.0       3225.0       806.3   3984.0   996.0         24.0
High income household    5.0       5470.0       1094.0  6858.0   1371.6        25.4
Jiangsu Province
Low income household     4.0       2076.3       519.1   3274.4   818.6         57.7
Middle income household  4.0       4363.6       1090.9  5189.1   1297.3        18.9
High income household    5.0       6928.5       1185.7  8835.0   1767.0        49.5
Shandong Province
Low income household     4         3879.0       969.8   4614.0   1153.5        18.9
Middle income household   4        4197.0       1049.3  4948.0   1237.0        17.9
High income household    4         4525.0       1131.3  5369.0   1342.3        18.7
Hebei Province
Low income household     4.0       3241.0       810.3   5925.0   1481.3        82.8
Middle income household  3.0       3541.0       1180.3  6001.0   2000.3        69.5
High income household    4.0       6827.0       1706.8  9080.0   2270.0        33.0
Henan Province
Low income household     4.0       2821.7       705.4   3506.4   876.6         24.3
Middle income household  5.0       4791.1       958.2   6036.9   1207.4        26.0
High income household    4.0       4267.3       1066.8  5501.9   1375.5        28.9



Notes on Agriculture Production, Impact on Rural Incomes, and Cost Recovery
Agriculture Production. The improvement and development of surface and groundwater irrigation
would result in substantial increases in cropping intensities and yields. This would come from the increased
paddy, wheat, com, oilseeds, cotton, soybean, and diversification into vegetables and other high value crops.
Overall average cropping intensity with the project are expected to increase by 17 percent from 162 percent to
179 percent, and the average crop yields to increase by 7 percent to 89 percent depending on the subproject area--
-from 7 percent to 80 percent for food crops, 9 percent to 35 percent for cash crops, and 12 percent to 89 percent
for cotton in various subproject areas due to improvement of water resource and soil conditions. The cropping
intensity increase and incremental cropped areas for each province are presented below:
Incremental Cropped Area at Full Dev  p   __ment
Items            Unit     Anhui    Henan    Hebei    Jiangsu   Shandong Total
Cropping Intensity
Increase         %         12        16       29        13        18        17
Grain Crops      ha        16,100   26,890   67,626    19,655    34,013    164,284
Cash Crops       ha        16,630   24,941    7,667    124,909   28,186    102,333
Total      ha        32,730    51,831    75,293   144,564   62,199    266,618
The total production is expected to increase significantly by the time the project reaches full development
(beginnng in Year 9-12 for various subproject areas), due to irrigation coupled with intensive agricultural
extension and improved water management based on the improved and expanded irrigated land (1.54 million ha).
The total grain production is projected to annually increase from 9.3 million tons (without project) to 12.5 million
tons (with project), an increment of 3.2 million tons annually, or 133 percent of the without project scenario.
Increased cash crop production is roughly 1.1 million tons, and 1.2 million cum of timber. Incremental
production is valued at Y 6660.6 million annually. The increased production of various crops would also provide
substantial increases in crop residues and forage (Y 375.9 million in value), which would be used as coarse feed
for more livestock production. The agro-forestry component would produce armually Y553.4 million in value of
timber (commencing about Year 15). The incremental production of various crops in each province are shown
below.
Incremental Production At Full Development
Main Crops         Incremental Production ('000 ton; '000 m3)
Subproject area    Anhui   Henan   Hebei    Jiangsu  Shandong Total
Wheat              52.8    255.6   364.9    290.7   368.5         1332.5
Paddy Rice          503.2   113.0   116.6    601.8   36.7         1371.3
Maize&  Barley    6.8       107.4   270.2    25.3    316.3        726.1
Cotton             14.0    30.3    7.9         4.0      10.6      66.7
Rape               34.3    2.3                 29.2               65.8
Soybean            1.5      12.5    8.1        0.01    22.6       44.8
Sweet Potato       4.1               8.1                6.7       18.9
Peanut             4.8      12.2    13.0       12.0    33.6       75.6
Vegetable & Others  0.2     133.9   245.5      19.0    446.8      845.4
Timber             252.1   260.6   160.1    288.1   209.4         1170.3



Rural Incomes and Impact on Poverty. The farm model analysis shows substantial increase in
beneficiary farmers' income with the comprehensive improvement in irrigation and drainage, crop, and
agricultural support and agro-machinery services. Many farm households were surveyed in the project area to
represent typical beneficiary families. Representative farm households were selected in each sub-project area in
the five provinces on the basis of different income levels (high, medium and low). The following assumptions
have been considered to calculate and assess the financial impacts of the project on typical household incomes:
(a) average farm holding sizes of 0.5 ha in Anhui, 0.52 ha in Henan, 0.63 ha in Hebei, 0.54 ha in Jiangsu and
0.37 ha in Shandong have been used in the analysis, combined with the increased cropping intensity due to the
change from dry and partal irrigated land to full irrigated land, (b) the average 1997 financial farm gate prices
prevailing in the project areas were used to value outputs and inputs; (c) cropping pattems, intensity and the per
ha financial crop budgets were prepared for annual and perennial crops on dry and partial irrigated land using
current farming systems, with increased crop yields and cropping intensity derived from the development of
irrigation and drainage system and relevant agricultural technology through the project; (d) cropping pattems with
the project are based on the estimates made by each province, which have been revised to ensure that household
food security is met and that farming systems maintain/improve soil fertility and crop diversity; (e) various
incremental taxes and charges (agricultural tax, special product tax, Community Development Fund fee, and
other charges, etc.) have been taken into account in the analysis; (f) an incremental water charge was added to
cover the full operation and maintenance costs for the rehabilitated irrigation and drainage system; and (g) the
project loan repayment will be charged in the fourth through eight years at 67.5 Yuan per mu in Henan, 97 Yuan
per mu in Hebei, 74.5 Yuan per mu in Anhui, and 80 Yuan per mu in Jiangsu and 76 Yuan per mu in Shandong.
The standard charge for these items is presented in the typical household farm model. The sunmary table of
household net incomes in each subproject area is presented in Annex 4(d).
The impact of the project on farm incomes would be substantial and help to raise farm incomes for some
4.5 million farrn families benefiting directly from the project, of which 30-47 percent are low-income, 38-50
percent are medium income, and 15-23 percent are high income in various subproject areas. At full development,
the disposable net annual income of farm households who adopted improved or new technologies under the
project would increase from Y 2,852-5,470 currently to Y 3,762-6,858 in year 6 in Anhui; from Y 2,076-5,928
to Y 3,274-8,835 in Jiangsu, and Y 3,241-6,827 to Y 5,925-9,080 in Hebei, Y 2,821-4,267 to Y 3,506-5,501 in
Henan, and Y 3,879-4,525 to Y 4,614-5,369 in Shandong for the families with various income level. It shows
the real growth rate of household income at 19 to 83 percent for low income family, 18 to 70 percent for middle
income family and 19 to 49 percent for high income family at beginning year 6 in various subproject areas. This
indicates strong financial incentives of farmers to participate in the project, and the farmer's ability to pay project
costs.
Cost Recovery, Water Charges and Loan Repayment. Contributions to cover project costs will
take several forms. About 30 percent of the total project capital costs will be from the farmers' labor
contribution, 18 percent will be from State government grant (half of the Bank loan would not have to be
repaid by the provinces), and the other 52 percent will be provided from various resources. As the farmers
are contributing 30 percent of the capital cost during construction, 70 percent of the capital cost would
remain to be recovered after completion. Half of the Bank loan, about 17 percent of capital costs, would be
recovered mainly from the farmers. The remainder of capital costs would be recovered through several
means, including a range of taxes (agricultural tax, the special product and forest product tax, the tax
during construction, etc.), water charges, and additional charges for capital cost recovery on irrigation and
drainage system improvement and development during the project. In addition, farmers will pay the full
cost of some agricultural inputs and services; i.e., fertilizer, seeds, tree saplings, and agricultural machinery
services (about Y 91.4 million annually).



At full development, net incremental government revenue for cost recovery resulting from project
investments is projected at roughly Y 12,002.7 million. The details are below:
(a)    The total incremental revenue from various taxes with the project is projected to be about Y 998.7
million, comprising fruit, vegetable products and forest products taxes of Y 505.9 million (8-10 percent of
net income), income tax of Y 194.4 million from agricultural service, and taxes during construction of Y
298.5 million over a period of 5 years during project implementation, (excluding the normal current
collectable amount of the agricultural tax, Y 386.6 million/year,). All this additional revenue will be
available to the local governments for recovery of project costs.
(b)   In all subproject areas, the investment cost in irrigation and drainage will be partly covered through
labor contributions for construction, and partly through increases in irrigation water charges to meet at
least the full annual O&M costs plus the cost of Bank loan repayment as required under the project. The
present rate for water charges collected comprise only part of the average actual O&M expenditures, and
the overall collection rate is extremely low. For the whole project area, the estimated annual incremental
amount of the water charge collected due to increased water delivery and irrigated area under the project is
expected to be Y 655.2 million.
(c)   In SIDD areas after the project, increased water charges to cover full O&M cost recovery plus part
of capital costs can be achieved through the water charge collection by WUAs, given that irrigation
services will be more reliable and timely and more valuable. Farmer-members of WUAs will participate
directly as a group in construction of their subprojects with the clear understanding and agreement that
water charges will be raised to cover O&M plus Bank loan repayment, and they will be responsible for
collecting water charges. In addition, water charges will be deternined by volume of water delivered at the
WUA headgate (rather than by area), so WUA members will pay only for the water they actually receive.
The future water charges required to cover O&M plus Bank loan repayment have been estimated based on
the costs of irrigation, water charges based on the volume of water actually received and measured at the
WVUA headgate, and benefit analysis of irrigation subareas; they appear to be only a fraction of the
incremental net benefits to the farmers from the project. In addition, it appears that the water charges
calculated according to the current formula will be nearly sufficient to cover O&M plus repayment of the
Bank loan, as required. To cover O&M plus repayment of the Bank loan, water charges would have to be
increased from the average current rate of Y 0.03 to the future rate of Y 0.07 per cu m at full development
in Jiangsu, Y 0.05 to Y 0.09 per cu m in Anhui, Y 0.15 to Y 0.16 per cu m in Henan, Y 0.03 to Y 0.14 per
cu m in Shandong, and Y 0.12 to Y 0.16 per cu m in Hebei; the high water charges in Shandong, Hebei and
Henan reflect the high cost for groundwater pumping. The higher water charge rates required should be
phased in gradually. Part of the amount collected for water charges by the WSCs and WUAs would be
used for the Bank loan repayment.
(d)   In non-SIDD areas, cost recover for irrigation and drainage could also be done through increased
water charges, and water charges would have to be raised (if necessary) to cover at least O&M plus Bank
loan repayment. However, the provincial governments also propose to recover the capital costs from the
farmers through an additional charge for loan repayment based on the land holding size per family, which is
the traditional method for CAD projects. The total charges are estimated at Y 1.8 billion for 1.53 million
ha over a 8-year period, including Y 298.3 million from Anhui, Y 337.4 million from Henan, Y 388.5
million from Hebei, Y 399.3 million from Jiangsu, and Y 380.2 million from Shandong, based on a rate Y
74.5/mu in Anhui, Y 67.5/mu in Henan, Y 97/mu in Hebei, Y 80/mu in Jiangsu and Y 76/mu in Shandong.



Annex 5(a)
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending June 30
(Yuan millions, base year 1997)
Implementation Period              Operational Period
98/99   99/00   00/01   01/02   02/03      l    l    l 
Proiect Costs
Investment Costs           828.1  1797.9  1733.4  1740.9  983.3
Recurrent Costs                                                   =    =    =    =_=
Total                    828.1  1797.9  1733.4  1740.9  983.3 ____
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)              _        _       _
IBRDIIDA (35.3%)           292.3   634.7  611.9   614.5  347.4
Co-financiers                            I
Government (35.3%)         292.3   634.7  611.9   614.5  347.4
Central                                                              _    =    =    _
Local                    292.3   634.7   611.9  614.5  347.4                   ____
Users/Beneficiaries (29.4%)    243.5   528.5   509.6   511.9  288.5
Total                    828.1  1797.9  1733.4  1740.9  983.3
Main assumptions:
(a) Project costs and yearly breakdown were calculated and sunuiarized as described in Sections C: 1 and
E:1, and Annex 3.
(b) Project costs total Y 7,083.6 million (US$849.3 million), of which Bank financing would be Y 2,500.9
million (US$300.0 million).
(c) The balance of the cost (counterpart funds) would be provide in approximately equal shares by local
governments (provinces/prefectures/counties, 35%; and beneficiaries/farmers, 30%).
(d) Provinces, local govermments and farmers will provide counterpart funds (and farmer labor) according to
their commitments, and SOCAD will enforce agreed measures to ensure that counterpart funding is provided
by provincial and local governments.



Annex 6
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The procurement arrangements for the proposed project are summarized below in Annex 6(a)
Procurement Methods and Notes on Procurement Arrangements, and Annex 6(b) Thresholds for
Procurement Methods and Prior Review.
Disbursements
Disbursement arrangements for the proposed project are summarized below in Annex 6(c) Allocation of
Loan Proceeds, and Notes on Disbursements (including Retroactive Financing, Statements of Expenditure and
Special Account).



Annex 6(a)
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Exoenditure Categories                      Procurement Methods                  Total Cost
(US$ million)
ICB         NCB         Other/a       NBF/b
1. Work:
(a) Civil works by contracts               0         137.7        248.1            0         385.8
(Lined canals, structures,                       (34.0)        (62.0)                     (96.0)
buildings and tubewells)
(b) On-farm works:                         0            0         212.5            0         212.5
(Land preparation, soil                                        (42.5)                      (42.5)
improvement, earthworks, tree
planting, farm roads)
(c) Central MIS/Training                10.8            0             0            0           10.8
Center                               (8.0)                                                 (8.0)
2. Goods                                80.6          50.5         35.5            0          166.6
(Machinery, equipment and            (63.0)       (39.5)        (27.4)                    (129.9)
agricultural materials)
3. Institutional Development and           0            0          21.6            0          21.6
Support (training, study tours and                              (21.6)                     (21.6)
consultancy services)
4. Research, studies, experiments          0            0          10.0           5.0          15.0
and monitoring                                                   (2.0)                      (2.0)
5. Engineering survey,                     0                          0          34.7         34.7
design, supervision and
management
6.Land and compensation                    0            0             0           2.3          2.3
TOTAL                              91.4        188.2         527.7         42.0         849.3
(71.0)       (73.5)       (155.5)          (0)       (300.0)
/a Other procurement methods include price quotations, shopping (national and international), beneficiaries
participation work, consultant services procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines, training and study
tours.
/b NBF = Not Bank-financed.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank, including contingencies, and excluding
taxes and duties. Total may not add up due to rounding



Notes on Procurement Arrangements
General. Bank financed works, goods and services would be procured following the Bank
Procurement Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD and IDA Credits (January 1995 revised January and
August 1996, and September 1997) and Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997). The Bank-approved Chinese Model Bidding
Documents will be adopted for all Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) and National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) for works and goods, and the Standard Bid Evaluation Form will be used. Where no
Chinese model documents exist, the relevant Bank standard documents will be used.
Works. Except for the Central MIS/Training Center Complex ($10.8 million in value) which
would be procured through ICB, the project works are mainly low-valued on-farm irrigation and drainage
construction and improvements spread over 1,050 townships under 131 counties in five provinces of the
North China Plain, and be completed each on its own schedule over a period of five years. As such it is not
practical to package these small works for ICB bidding. It is more suited to use NCB bidding and simple
price quotations by local construction teams and organized beneficiaries participation for undertaking these
simple works. NCB (using NCB model bidding documents) for lined canals, structures, pumping stations,
buildings and tubewells are estimated to total $137.7 million, with each NCB contract less than $5 million.
For works packages costing less than $200,000 with an aggregate value of $248.1 million, would be
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of at least three price quotations
invited from construction teams registered with the local governments and based on local bidding
procedures reviewed and acceptable to the Bank'. The invitations for quotations, circulated to construction
teams registered with township and county governments, would include a description of the works, basic
technical specifications, work quantities, the required completion date, a simple form of agreement, and
relevant drawings. On-farm works covering land preparation, soil improvement, earthworks, tree planting,
farm roads, etc. would be carried out through project beneficiaries participatory work with payments to
participants based on agreed unit prices and outputs of works. The total value of such works spread over
the five years in 1,050 townships is estimated at $212.5 million. Such beneficiaries participatory works
would be organized and supervised by village and township governments, together with Water Users
Associations where they are established.
Goods. All contracts for goods costing $250,000 equivalent or more will be awarded under ICB.
To the extent practical, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages costing $250,000 or more.
Major items of engineering and agricultural machinery and equipment, vehicles, MIS equipment,
computers, fertilizer and agro-chemicals with an estimated value of $80.6 million in total would be grouped
under 14 categories and procured through about 73 ICBs. Qualified domestic bidders competing under
ICB will be eligible for a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the c.i.f price or the actual custom
duties and import tax, whichever is less. A variety of machinery and equipment of different technical
performance and requirements over the project implementation, valued at $50.5 million in total, would be
grouped under 12 categories and procured through about 110 NCBs, each costing less than $250,000 per
contract. Small items of miscellaneous agricultural machinery and their attachments, equipment,
1 This procurement method by at least three price quotations is based on the similar method used in the Gansu
Hexi Corridor Project in China (Ln.4028/Cr.2870-CHA) which has been found to be efficient and competitive in
bidding. Post reviews by Bank supervision missions have shown that, in most cases, more than three prices
quotations were received with competitive prices.



instruments, planting materials would be procured through national shopping (with at least three price
quotations) for procurement under $50,000 per contract and international shopping (with at least three
price quotations from at least two different countries) for procurement between $50,000 and $100,000 per
contract. The aggregate value for national and international shopping for the five provinces will not exceed
$16.9 million and $18.6 million respectively, totaling $35.5 million.
Institutional Development and Support, Research, Studies, Experiments and Monitoring.
Institutional development and support would cover training, study tours, consultant services, and SIDD
development support. Training, study tours and SIDD development ($19.6 million) would be carried out
according to programs agreed by the Bank. Consultancy services for institutional development and
support are estimated at $507,000. The Bank would finance 100% of the estimated costs of $20.1 million
for institutional development and support. Research studies, experiments and monitoring would include
about 79 topics on research, technical studies, and experiments (costing about $7.0 million) related to
irrigation, forestry development and agricultural production technologies, and water, soil, and environment
monitoring (costing about $8.0 million) to be carried by national and provincial institutions and agencies.
The estimated costs for research, studies, experiments and monitoring total $15 million, of which $5 million
would be non-Bank financed; of the remaining $10 million, the Bank would finance only $2.0 million
(20%) spread over the five provinces, 28 prefectures and municipalities, and 131 counties.
CPMO and PPMOs would contract with the concerned institutions, agencies and individuals
selected on the basis of their expertise and qualifications to carry out the above assignments based on
programs agreed by the Bank. The majority of these contracts would be very small, costing on average less
than $100,000. They would be procured in accordance with the Bank guidelines, "Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers " January 1997, Revised September 1997, under
Quality and Cost-Based Selection procedures, except as follows: (a) services for the design of the national-
level (SOCAD) MIS and training center, and other services provided by firms costing less than $100,000
per contract, would be procured under the Consultants' Qualifications method; (b) services for adaptive
research, studies, experiments and environmental monitoring provided by firms and costing less than
$100,000 per contract would, with prior Bank agreement, be procured under Single Source Selection
procedures; and (c) individual consultants would be procured under the Guidelines' procedures for
selection of individuals.
Engineering Investigation, Survey, Design and Management. This would cover mainly
engineering investigation, survey, design, , project supervision and management. The Bank will not finance
any of these local cost items, costs for which would be borne by the respective provinces, local
governments, and SOCAD.
Review of Bid Documents and Contracts. Bid documents for all civil works in excess of $2.0
million and goods in excess of $200,000 will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Each of the 131
project counties is required to use at least one NCB for works with contract values ranging from $200,000
to $500,000 per contract. Some 20% of these NCB works contracts, representing at least one from each of
the 28 Prefectures/Cities, will be selected for prior review by the Bank.. Approximately 128 contracts (73
ICBs and about 55 NCBs) representing 70% of contracts for goods and $102.8 million estimated in value
(representing 78% of total contract value of about $131.2 million) will be subject to prior review by the
Bank. Model Bidding Documents prepared and issued by the Ministry of Finance for Bank-financed
projects in China would be used for ICB and NCB. All other contracts will be subject to selective post
review after bid award. All TORs and contracts for consultancy services for individuals costing more than
$50,000 and firms costing more than $100,000 would be subject to prior review by the Bank. Annex 6(b)
below shows the thresholds for procurement methods



Annex 6(b)
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category        Contract Value        Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Threshold            Method             Prior Review
(in US$ thousands)                       (in US$ thousands)
1. Works:
(a) Civil works                     >5,000                ICB                   All
>200 to <5,000           NCB               All >2,000
<200              Quotations             None
(small works)
(b) On-farm works                    None             Force Account/           None
Beneficiaries'
Participation
2. Goods                             >250                 ICB                   All
>100 to <250            NCB                All >200
<100               Shopping              None
3. Consultant services:
(a) institutional development        >100                 QCBS                  All
(excluding training center)       <100                  CQ                 None
Individual          Individual              >50
(b) research, studies,               >100                 QCBS                  All
experiments, monitoring           <100             Single-source            None
Individual          Individual              >50
(c) training center                                        CQ                  None
Note:
All contracts not subject to Bank prior review would be subject to Bank post review.
ICB: International Competitive Bidding
NCB: National Competitive Bidding
Shopping: International shopping may be used for goods contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent per contract. National shopping may be used for goods contracts estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent per contract.
CQ: Consultants' Qualifications
QCBS: Quality- and Cost-Based Selection



Annex 6(c)
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category              Amount in           Financing Percentage
US$ million
1. Works:
(a) Civil works, excluding 1(b) and 1(c)     96.0        25% of expenditures
below
(b) On-farm works                            42.5        20% of expenditures
(Land preparation, soil improvement,
earthworks, tree planting, roads)
(c) Central MIS/Training Center               8.0        75% of expenditures
2. Goods                                      127.9        100% of foreign expenditures;
(Machinery, equipment and agricultural                 100% of local expenditures (ex-
materials)                                            factory) and 75% for goods
procured locally.
3. Institutional Development & Support        20.1         100% of expenditures
(training, study tours, and consultancy
services)
4. Research, studies, experiments and          2.0        20% of expenditures
monitoring.
5. Unallocated                                 3.5
TOTAL                         300.0



Notes on Disbursements:
Retroactive Financing. To take advantage of the idle time in farming activities during the
1997/98 winter/spring season during which project beneficiaries would be able to participate in
construction work, retroactive financing of construction works effective from November 1, 1997 has been
agreed with the Borrower. The retroactive financing would include earthworks for small canals, drains,
farm roads, on-farm structures, land leveling and deep plowing, tree planting, MIS development and
launching of pilot Water User Associations and Water Supply Corporations and development of SIDDs.
The total estimated disbursable amount of the retroactive financing works is estimated at $15 million
(about 5 percent of the total loan) for the five provinces.
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) will be used for
disbursement to be made against: (a) works under contracts costing less than $2.0 million equivalent each
(which include beneficiaries' participatory works); (b) goods under contract costing less than $200,000
equivalent each; (c) contracts for individual consultants costing less than $50,000 and firms costing less
than $100,000; and (d) expenditures for training, workshops and study tours. SOEs for beneficiaries'
participatory works are to be supported by certified receipts for payments to beneficiaries and progress
reports showing physical work quantities and unit prices, the latter to be reviewed and updated annually
and agreed by the Bank.
Special Account. To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account, to be operated by the existing
State Office for Comprehensive Agricultural Development (SOCAD) under the Ministry of Finance, will
be established in a bank acceptable to the Bank. The Special Account will have an initial authorized
allocation of $20 million which will be increased to $30 million when the cumulative disbursement amount
reaches $60 million. SOCAD will prepare and submit applications to the Bank for disbursement and
replenishment of the Special Account monthly or whenever the account is drawn down to half its initial
amount, whichever comes first.
Completion and Closing Dates. The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002
and to close on December 31, 2003.



Annex 7
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(excludes grant funding)                (At final PCD stage)
310                 277.0
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          18                   12
First Bank mission (identification)              02/27/97             02/27/97
Appraisal mission departure                      06/04/98             02/16/98
Negotiations                                     09/07/98              04/27/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    02/28/99              09/15/98
Prepared by: State Office for Comprehensive Agricultural Development (SOCAD)
Provincial Offices for Comprehensive Agricultural Development (POCADs)
Preparation assistance: PHRD Japanese Grant, Australian Consultant Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Richard Reidinger                         Irrigation Economist/Task Manager
Lang Seng Tay                             Irrigation Engineer
Douglas Olson                             Water Resources Engineer
Qun Li                                    Economist
Karin Kemper                               Economist/Financial Analyst
William Price                              Water Resources Engineer
Nancy Mattson                              Project Analyst
Robert Crooks                              Environmentalist
Nicolette DeWitt                           Principal Counsel
Liping Jiang                              Water Resources Engineer
Xiaohong Yang                              Financial Management Specialist
Jean Bemardino                             Task Assistant



Annex 8
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification Project II: Project Implementation Plan (PIP), April 1998
Annex 1. Project Background
Annex 2. Project Procurement Plan
Annex 3. Technical Assistance, Study Tours and Training Plan
Annex 4. Scientific Research Plan
Annex 5. SIDDs Development Plan
Annex 6. Project Cost Estimates
Annex 7. Project Financial And Economic Analysis
Annex 8. Project Implementation Plan
Annex 9. Program Approach
Annex 10. Financial Management Guidelines
Annex 11. Project Monitoring Plan
Annex 12. Project Organization Chart
Annex 13. Analysis of Water Supply and Demand Balance
Annex 14. Dam Safety Report
Annex 15. Policy Framework for Social Assessment
Annex 16. Envirornental Impact Assessment
Annex 17. Management Information System
Provincial Project Inplementation Plans (5), January 1998
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Preappraisal/Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire and Annexes dated March 20, 1998
Preparation Follow-up Mission Aide Memoire and Annexes dated December 25, 1997
Preparation Mission Aide Memoire and Annexes dated October 17, 1997
C. Other
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project: Feasibility Study Report for Overall Project
Provincial Feasibility Studies and Annexes
Provincial SIDD Development Plans
Provincial Special Reports on Dam Safety and Water Balance
Management Information System Development Plan
Financial Management Guideline for LIAL 2
Policy Framework for Resettlement under IAIL 2
Guideline for Dam Safety under IAIL 2
* Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 9A: Status of Bank Group Operation s in China
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Annex 9B: Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio



01/1698
Annex 9 A
Status of Bank Group Operations in China
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Original A ... t in u55 million-
Loan or      Fiscal                                                                                           i9nlAon     USfliOI
Project ID      Cr-dit No.      Y0.r                    BO-ro... .rj)ose
IBRD          lI A         .         .ll.,i ,,os  Un.il b .a. d
Nutr. of ClO..d Lo /cSIrCditt.  198
Active Loans
CM-PE-3472       I1RD 2968S        1980   PRC                                      RAILWAY IV                         171.30          0.00                0.00              2.04
CH-PC-3558        IDA 21590        1990   PRC                                     HEBEI AGRIC. DEVT.                    0.00        150.00                  .12              .08
CN-PE-35B2        IBRD 3337T       1991   PRC                                      IRRIG. AGRIC. IN0ENS                45.05          0.00                0.00              2.37
CN-PE-3560        IDA 22420        1991   PRC                                      HENAN AGRIC. DEVT.                   0.00        110.00                0.00              3.24
CN-PE-3478        IDA 22100        1990   PRC                                      KEY STUDIES DEVELOPH                 0.00        131.20                0.00               .83
CN-PE-3534        IDRD 3471A       1992   PRC                                      ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP                70.13          0.00                0.00             26.62
CN-pE-3"O3        IBRD 3462A       1992                                            ZOUXIAN THERMAL PONE                26.79          0.00                0.00             14.72
CN-PIE-3564       IBRD 3415A       1992   BEIJING MUNICIPALITY                    BEIJING ENVIRONHENT                  32.90          0.00                0.00             29.32
CN-PE-3492        I0RD 34120       0992   GOC                                     DAGUANGBA-HAINAN                     30.00          0.00                0.00              2.96
CN-PE-3486       1IBD 3406A        1992                                            RAILWAYS V                          33.73          0.00                0.00             29.05
CN-PE-3568        IDA 23870        1902   R.O.C.                                  TIANJIN UR8B DEV & EN                 0.00        100.00                0.00             33.39
CN-PE-3544        IDA 23390        1992   PEOPLE S REPUBLIC OF CHIN               EDUC DEV IN POOR PR0                  0.00        130.00                0.00              4.08
CN-PE-35N7        IDA 23360        1992   PRC                                      RURAL WAT SUPP 6 SAN                 0.00        110.00                0.00              1.81
CN-PE-3624        IDA 23170        1992   MIN. OF PUBL.NEALTH                      INFECTIOUS DISEASES                  0.00        129.60                0.00             55.00
CM-PE-3S64        IDA 23120        1992   BEIJING MUNICIPALITY                     BEIJING ENVIRONMENT                  0.00         00.00                0.00              3.71
CN-PE-3555        IDA 23070        1992   PRC                                      GUANGDONG AG. DEVT.                  0.00        162.00                0.00             17.74
CN-PE-3492        IDA 23050        1992   GOC                                      DAGUANGBA-HAINAN                     0.00         37.00                0.00               .42
CN-PE-3565        IDA 22960        1992                                            SHAN HAI ME0R0 TRANS                 0.00         60.00                0.00              3.77
CN-PE-3627        IBRD 3624A       1993   PRC                                     GRAIN DISTRIBUTION PROJ             325.00          0.00                0.00            325.00
CN-PE-3616        IBR1  3606A      1993   PAC                                      TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                196.60          0.00                 0.00           109.72
CN-PE-3580        088D 35820       1993   PRC                                      SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON.                250.00          0.00                 0.00            34.72
PROTECT .
CN-PE-1570        I0RD 35810       1993   PRC                                      RAILWAY VI                         420.00          0.00                0.00            137.16
CN-PE-3533        10RD 3572A       1993                                            TIANJIN IND. 1I                     B2.68          0.00                0.00             64.31
CN-PE-3597        IBRD 3560A       1993   PRC                                      TAIrHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL          88.65          0.00                 0.00            64.71
CN-PE-3512        IBR1  35520      1993   GOVT or PEOPLES REP. OF C                SHANGHAI PORT REST.                150.00          0.00               25.74              5.45
CN-PE-3581        IBR0 35310       1993   PRC                                      8ENAN PROV. TRANSPORT              120.00          0.00                0.00             16.15
CN-PE-351         080RD 35300      1993   PRC                                     GUASGDONG PROV. TRANSPORT           240.00          0.00                0.00             21.43
CN-PE-3526        1880 3515A       1993   GOC                                     SHUIKOU  12 43.86                                   0.00                0.00             24.27
CN-PE-3632        IDA 25220        1993   ROC                                      ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                 0.80         50.00                0.00             16.43
CN-PE-3627        IDA 25180        1993   PRC                                     GRAIN      RBUION PROJ                9.           60                   0.05             72.03
CH-PE-3473        IDA 24750        1993   P.R.C.                                   ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES                 0.00        110.00                0.00             54.90
CN-PE-3567        IDA 24710        1993   PRC                                      EFFECTIVE TEACHING                   0.00        100.00                0.00             51.25
SERVICES
CN-PE-3597        IDA 24630        1993   PRC                                     TAIRU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL             0.00        100.00                0.00              4.94
CN-PE-3559        IDA 24620        1993   PRC                                     AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVICES               0.00        115.00                0.00             10.49
CW-PE-3509        IDA 24570        1993   PRC                                     CHANGCHUN WAT SUPP 0                  0.00        120.00                0.00             54.05
CN-PE-3592        IDA 24470        1903   PRC                                      REF. INST L.                         0.00         10.00                0.00             23.78
PREINVEST (CRISP)
CN-PE-3623        IDA 24230        1993   PRC                                      FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A                 0.00         60.00                0.00             35.21
CN-PE-3361        IDA 24110        1993   PRC                                     SICHUAN RAP                           0.00        147.00                0.00             22.73
CH-11-3504        1880 37480       1994   PRC                                      HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL               380.00          0.00                0.00            115.10
" WAYSS
CH-PE-3562        IBR1  37270      1994   PRC                                     XIRULANODI NULSIPURPOSE             460.00          0.00                0.00             40.06
CH-PE-3641        IBRD 371BA       1994   PII                                     YANGZHOU THERMAL POWER              248.16          0.00                0.00             96.04
CN-PC-3609        1E88  ttt6A      1994   600                                      SICHUAN GAS DEV .                  175.45          0.00                0.09            167.60
CONSERVATION
CN-PE-3506        00RD 37110       1994   PRC                                     S'AMGHAI ENVIRONMENT                160.00          0.00                0.00             06.55
CN-PE-3633        188D 36s7A       1994   GOVERNMENT OF PRC                       TELECOGMUNICATIONS                  132.76          0.00                0.00            106.17
04-PE-3626        I18D 3568A       1994   GOC                                      FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                 80.33          0.00                0.00             65.32
CN-PE-3622        08RD 36120       1994   SHANGHal MUNICIPAL GOVT                  SHANGHAI HTP 11                    100.00          0.00                0.00             10.39
CN-PE-3557        IDA 26230        1994   PRC                                      FOREST RESOURCE DEV                  0.00        200.00                0.00            102.57
CN-PE-3540        IDA 26160        1994   PRC                                      LOESS PLATEAU                        0.0         150.00                D.D00            40.32
C9-M0-3644        1DA 26050        1994   PRC                                      OIROLROODI RE E0LEMENT              0.00        810.80                D.00             49.49
CN-PE-3593        IDA 25720        1994   PRC                                     SONGiLIAO PLAIN ADP                   0.00        2I0.00                0.00             66.53
CN-PE-3595        IDA 25630        1994   PRC                                     RED SOILS II DEVELOP                  0.00        150.00                0.00             40.91
CH-80-3502        SDa 25390        1994   NON                                     8UR HEALTH MANPOWER                   0.00        110.00                0.00             45.01
CN-PE-37156       IRD 3B1s4A       1995   PRC                                      IODINE DEF. DISORDER                 7.00          0.00                0.00              7.00
CN-PE-3493       I088  39106       1995   PRC                                      INLAND WATERWAYS                   210.00          0.00                0.00            150.24
C_N-P-3639        1800 39064       1995   :RC                                     SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                 47.50          0.00                0.00             36.07
CN-_P-3571        0BRD 36976       1995   PRC                                     RAILWAYS VII                        400.00          0.00                0.D0            392.00
C14-PE-3596       1880 3t74A       1995   PRkC                                     YANG1ZE BASIN WATER                 91.26          0.09                0.00             73.10
CH-1C-36041       180D 38736       1995   NOF                                      FISCAL H TAX REF. *                 25.00          0.00                0.00             25.00
CN-PE-36947       IBRD 3848A       1995   GOC                                      SICHUAN TRANSHISSION               270.00          0.00                0.00            219.35
CN-1E-3600       1IBR  3847A       1995   PRC                                      TECHNOLOOY DEVELORPE               194.99          0.00                0.00            193.65
CH-PE-3642        180R 39469       1995                                            ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                215.67          0.00                0.00            191.00
CN-PE-3642        18RD 3846A       1995                                            ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT             , 114.15           0.00                0.00            1239.09
CN-PE-35tS        IBRD 37880       1995   GOC                                      SHENYANG 0D. REFORM                175.00          0.00D 0C.                           129.12
CN-PC-3612        IBRD 37870       1995   PRC                                      XINJIANG HIGHWAY I                 150.00          0.0                8.00             91.75
(k.oorolcd bv the Onerstinos l,fn-nnin-n c,,.---, VnlES



s 0~.l e       - a -d  -         -   nt'n.'tn  en nnnp       nnn,z          nnno.mn-- - - ----n'tfn-nn  n nt- -
j                ..M.          ,~~~~~,a   .a...        CXCXO~~~~~. .  ...o      . 0e Cba '.a      .0toa.oou.,.'.oo,t.1
ffi                  =    | e c~3          "..  zg                CwW>>OOoeeeeoeo   O   eew                                                 iwwww 
n~~~~                                  ~ ~ nn,.  SC  C- 
a. ro~~~~~~~~~~~ Z .1
a                    at-   M* 3 
*      - 0            a    aos
22CM                                                           .0.0.0.0.02.22W2W. W. .     ME
r   *n u   ooowo|                                                       4..s40               C0      C0       :o     oo      oa
N ' _                                                                |                                                                   Z, z 3  s z > X $ e n c r Z Z 7 wa  n    - t t Z 5 Z >   n H  
tO  0MG      -- o
0MM  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~              .....                              . ....... ... . .
S   S ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~      
U                                   W 0o0o -                                        0                          tooooilooooooooo   
m no             S                                                                                                                           x  
*  * 0                                          0             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6   6             2                   
*0  a - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~! F~-F
C                              .0                                                                                                C -
0s...                                                                                              .
.oaoino,o. ..t.w            c. .0r.t.. .       Ono. .X . .~MCC    zt.O.- 
Ca                                      00 o nM Mr?X.O Co                            O2 ..            ooo           0 40        C
oa            C C0              ~         t   t~.'t                                             C.,       0        tr Et-
.~~~~                        o   0   0.0.40      0                                2          0fCCtr.A
8      co a,                 C                 O~0          f      oac        0 C            Cm'O'..                  
o0                                     0         O020 C'a'OXCC CC                                ,          ~          o4't
o0                                                                                                                                            '_' 2C   a'   .-~   20012.000  .0 "
*  C .0.-.noCoO  0 VJan't'2   0    COOXM C '0   '"'C     a   ~                        _



Annex 9 1
China
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Nov-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                             Disbursed
IFC                                   IFC
FY Approval                Company             Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic    Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
1985192                   Guangzhou Auto               0.00      4.55      0.00      0.00     0.00      4.55     0.00      0.00
1987/92/94                China Bicycles               8.50      3.39      0.00      0.00     8.50      3.39     0.00      0.00
1988                      Crown Elec                    .26      0.00      0.00      0.00      .26      0.00     0.00      0.00
1993                      Shenzhen PCCP                3.76       .99      0.00      0.00     3.76      .99      0.00      0.00
1993                      Yantai Cement                16.64      1.95     0.00      8.89    16.64      1.95     0.00      8.89
1994                      China Walden JV              0.00      6.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      2.70     0.00      0.00
1994                      China Walden Mgt             0.00       .01      0.00      0.00     0.00      .01      0.00      0.00
1994                      Dalian Glass                20.50      2.40      0.00    40.50     20.50      2.40     0.00     40.50
1994                      Dynamic Fund                 0.00      12.35     0.00      0.00     0.00      9.46     0.00      0.00
1994                      Plant. Timber                10.00      1.00     0.00     20.00     10.00     1.00     0.00     20.00
1995                      Dupont Suzhou               24.92      4.15      0.00     52.00     19.34     4.15      0.00    30.66
1995                      Newbridge Inv.               0.00      10.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      6.60     0.00      0.00
1995                      Suzhou PVC                  22.00      2.48      0.00     22.20     0.00      2.48     0.00      0.00
1996                      Beijing Hormel               5.00       .50      0.00      5.50     4.29      .50      0.00      4.71
1996                      Fairyoung Ports              0.00      4.98      0.00      0.00     0.00      4.98     0.00      0.00
1996                      Jingyang                    40.00      0.00      0.00    100.00    34.29      0.00     0.00     85.71
1996                      Nanjing Kumho                16.00     3.81      0.00    45.50     13.63      3.81     0.00     38.75
1996                      Tianjin Kumho                11.17     0.00      0.00    33.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1996                      Weihai Weidongri             4.22      0.00      0.00      0.00     4.22      0.00     0.00      0.00
1997                      Orient Finance               10.00     0.00      0.00    20.00      3.33      0.00     0.00      6.67
Total Portfolio:                         192.97     58.56      0.00    347.59    138.76   48.97      0.00    235.89
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan    Equity    QUaSi    Partic
1996                      CALTEX OCEAN                 31.33      0.00     0.00     66.00
1997                      CHINEFARGE                   12.80     0.00      0.00    20.00
1997                      DERKWEI OVERSEAS              0.00     5.00      0.00      0.00
1997                      DERKWEI SHANGHAI             13.00     0.00      0.00     38.00
1997                      DERKWEI SHENZHEN             12.00      0.00     0.00    33.00
1997                      LIAOCHENG JIAMIN             18.00     0.00      0.00     18.00
1996                      NANJING HUINING               4.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                      NINGBO                        0.00     2.00      0.00      0.00
1997                      NISSAN/DONGFENG              20.20      0.00     0.00    27.00
1997                      PTP HOLDINGS                  0.00      1.50     0.00      0.00
1997                      PTP HU}3EI                   13.00      0.00     0.00    25.00
1998                      PTP HUBEI BLINC               0.00      0.00     0.00      1.50
1997                      PTP LESHAN                    4.20      0.00     0.00      0.00
1998                      SCANA LESHAN                  6.10      1.35     0.00      0.00
1996                      SHANDONG SAND                17.00      0.00      0.00    25.00
1997                      SMC                          14.00      0.00     0.00     14.00
1997                      SUZHOU PVC ADD.               7.90      0.00      0.00     6.40
1996                      TTANJIN                       9.10      0.00     0.00      9.10
1996                      XIAMEN XIAN                  10.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                192.63      9.85      0.00   283.00
Gencterd by the Opcretiors 1nformascr Syrien (OIS) on 01/16/98



Annex 10 - China at a glance                                                               8115/97
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            East    Low-
China      Asia  Income       Developmentdlamond,
Population mid-1996 (millions)                    1,211.3     1,726    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                            750       890       500                Life expectancy
GNP 1998 (billons USS)                              903.8     1,542    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Populabtion (%)                                       1.1       1.3      1.7      GNP                            Gross
Labor force (%)1.1                                              1.3 ,               p                            Grns
Most recent esimate (latest year available since 1989)                            capita                     enrollment
Poverty headcount index (% of population)              9
Urban population (% odtotal population)               30        31        29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      69        68       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live biftts)              34        40        69              Access to safe water
Child malnutition (% of childkhn under 5)             17
Access to safe water (% of population)                46        49        53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  19        17        34            -China
Gross primary enrollment (% of schoolage population)  109      117       105         -China
Male                                                ..       120       112               Low-income group
Female                                              ..       116        98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1986      1995      1996
IEconomIc ratios^
GOP (billions USS)                         160.3   378.1      755.9    914.2      E
Gross domestic investnentGDP                30.3    37.8       40.5     42.4             Openness of econo
Exports of goods and servicem/GDp            5.2     9.9       21.0     18.5               p       e noy
Gross domesic savings/GDP                   30.8    33.7       42.2     43.9
Gross national savingslGDP                  30.6    34.0       40.6     42.8
Current account baancelGDP                  -0.2    -3.9        0.2      0.5
Interest paymentslGDP              -                  0.2       0.9      0.5     Savings                     I nvestinnt
Total debWGDP                                  ..     5.5      16.9     14.2
Total debt servicelexpors                     ..      8.3       9.4      6.7   I
Present value of debtWGDP                     ..       ..      15.5
Present value of deWexporls                   ..      ..       70.8       ..                 Indebtedness
i97tf SS  188@90 19105   199l  1997-05 
(averoge annual growth)         1                                                          China
GDP                                 8.3      9.9     10.5       9.7      8.5
GNP per capita                      7.5      8.4      7.9       8.9      7.6               Low4ncomne gmup
Exportsofgoodsandservices          17.2    13.1      9.6        7.4      8.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                 1975    19SS       199S      1996     Growth rates of output and Investment(%)
Agriculture                                 32.0    28.4       20.6     20.0     30.
Industry                                    42.8    43.1       48.4     48.9    20
Manufacturing                             31.8    35.4       37.6      38.9
Services                                    25.2    28.5       31.1     31.1    1:  
Private consumption                         61.9    53.1       45.6     46.1             91   92   93   94   95   9s
General government consumption               7.6    13.2       12.2     10.0
Importsofgoodsand sev,ces                    5.0    14.0       19.3     17.0              -0     Dl    O-'GDP
19755  19-s"         1995     1996
(ave,ge annual growth)                                                             Owdi  oet ep   arnd Impoe 4%)
AgrIculture                                  5.4     4.3        5.0      5.1      40,
Industry                                    10.4    13.4       14.1     12.7        I
Manufacturing           -                 13.0    129        13.3      12.3
SerIces                                      9.8     9.4        7.9      7.8     20
Privateconsumption                           8.2     8.2        6.3      3.3     aI-f
Generalgovemmentconsumption                  9.0    a87          *      11.4                   9 2   93   94   95   9s
Gross domest investment                      9.8    11.3       19.1     16.6    -20.1
Importsofgoodsandservices                   22.1     9.5        5.0      8.8
Gross national product                       9.0      9.9       9.0      9.9              -    i-        ipa
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estmatea Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If date ae msig t  diamond vwN
be incomplete.



China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1986       1995     1996                      ~
Domestic prices                             1                                     InfOtlon (%)
(% Change)                                                                        30 -
Consumer prices                                ..     9.3       16.9      8.3       , 4O
ImplicitGDP deflator                        -0.9    10.1       13.1       6.1
Governmentflnance
(% of GOP)                                                                                V o3,
Current revenue                               ..    25.5       11.4      1 1.5    '       9     2    9    94   95   95
Current budget balance                        ..      6.7      -1.4       0.5              -GOP def. -O--cPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ,.    -0.5       -1.7      *1.6
TRADE
(imillions UJSS)                            1975    1985       1995     1996      EXport and Impon leels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                           ..  27,350   148.770  151.073
Food                                         "    3,803      9,954   10,232
Fuel                                         ..   7.132      5,335    5.929     150.000 I                     _
Manufactures                                 ..  13,522   127,283  129.141
Total imports (cit)                                42,252   132,078  138.828      t s            _ .         If 
Fuel and energy                               ,0 172         5,127    6,877      5  00      i
Capitl goods                                 ..18,694    57,481   63,901              _______________
Exportpnceindex(1987=100)                      ..      92       133      132                   o9      93  94  95 26
Importpnceindex(1987=100)                     ..       78       132      131                  :Expost  raImpors
Terms of trade (1987=100)                      ..    118        101      100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1978     1985      1995     1996
(milions US$)                                                                     Cuantm a    ncounm balance to GDP mdo (%)
Exports of goods and services              7,828   28,163   147,240  153,740      4
Imports of goods and seMces                8,097   41,149   135,284  141,340         ,
Resource balance                            -269  -12,986    11,956   12,400
2 4'
Net Income                                     0      932   -11,774  -10,370         :          I
Notcurrenttransfers                            0      171       810    1,580      o i 0             _       _
s0o   9t  92  931  94  95  95
Curent account balance,3,1
before official capital transfers          -2f9  -11,883      992    3,010
Financng items (net)                          ..   9,443    21,477   28,030
Changes in net reserves                        ..   2,440   -22,469  -31,640      -4 I
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)            ..  13,214    768036  108,289
Conversion rate (local/USS)                  1.9      2.9        8.4      8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(millions USS)                              1976     193       1995     1Cornpositlon of total debt, 1998 (mill.
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..  16,696   118,090  126f,288                         A
IBRD                                         "      498     7,209    7,616              G         7616     B
IDA                                          "      43i     7,038    7,579             24558              7579 D
Total debt service                            ..   2.478    15,066   16,825                   -                2499
IBRD                                         "       28       810      840
IDA                                          '        4        63       73E
E
Composition of net resource flows                                                                               .23S72
Offlidal grants                             ,,    117         329
Official creditors                          ..   1,117       7,202    7,193
Private creditors                           ..   2,887       5,683    1,873
Foreign dirert investment                    *.   1,669    35,849
PorfoiO equity                                        0      2,807
F
World Bank program                                                                         6064
Commitments                                  ..   1,092      2,850    1,900      A-NWRD                     E-Biltwg
Disbursements                               ..      5        2,269    2,097      B-IDA    D.O.gmuitar   F-FPiv
Prinpal repayment                           ..        0       364      364       C-F                        G -Short-lm
Net flows                                    ..     56O      1,905    1,734
Interest payments                           ..       29       500      549
Nettransfers                                ..    536        1,396    1,185
Deveopment Economics. 199f extemal debt ani resource flows data ae from ORS (preliinkary).                         8/1-77
Note: The dollar esbtmates for China's GNP per capita. GNP and GDP are prelihrnfary figures based on an on0oirg Wold Sank study Of
China's GDP. They were calculated to faciitate hter-country comnparison. OftWal statistics are used as do bas for all oter economic
analysis contained in this document



MAP SECTION



LW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~.
CHINA                            T~AA,gOi                    MO G L,                                                      2
IRRIGATED AGRICULTURAL                                  \ r~U                                                                       '~             -
INTENSIFICATION  II11"                                                   '1'(                                                             
PROJECT                                                   --
-    m~~jiokou  .6<  ~ ~ jOherj~de                   AONING              l
DEVEtOPMLENT PROJECT AREAS` J
IRRIGATED AGRICULTUJRAL INTENSIFICATIOQN  ISI
I PROJ ECT AREAS
m    RIATE AGIULUA INTENSIFICATION
IRRIGATION AREA BOUNDARIES          A1Z
0   SERECTED CIDER
1ST  PROVINCE CAPITALS
NATIONAL CAFITAL 
MIVN ROADS
- ~PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
SHANXI~
T. ~ ~     ~     ~     . 
DOT>     HUBS                           NA                                          r                -z4"   Hbi 
42-o
K.iA                                                              '
~~~~ r4   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'t                  -~~~~~~~~ 
0 zN.A..", IING1                                             ~J~RJRIP
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOITA
pT ~ ~       ~          ~ ~ ~ ~ N '0 
A EeeeA L11TDJ                                                                                Th.',eepApAAAJTp  ReRAA.AAe~~~~~~~~~~~N t-A.JD
$                                                                                         TALIe.AeneeAen d.eee.'T ~~~~~~~~dy;IAAVA~
Ado.      VANe AV1VAVC                                                                                               RTe. F    IRAAI.ERdvTeey IIAFxi
HUBE  pII'                                                                                      N&I d~    VAA
FDA                                                                                                                           'A~~~~~~~~~~~~'
A                                               PRILIPPNMONGOLIE



_                                                                 I        ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~~~~~~ iI  
114'              115"               116'                117'               18_   11                                12
4.
NEI MONGOL
42       VA, 0,s            --                                        -:b%Q  -                  v                          *  
1- -
-                          ' I                                                                      41- -"/
g~~ ,-    mpou;i  /  X/ ki_
I~~~~EJ
be~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HN                                                                    RUSA 1? 
s~~~~~~~RIAE   AGR wICLUA                                         X< tvi 't--  -~  -.    -
C  _ <   <  <   ,,      0 ad    >             '       --  - - t /00    " -  .- ,-- j                           38*"   044440    1 
BEIJING ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~OGOI
HEBEI     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O 
o~ ~ ~~~~"-  ,              -                            H       N       O        -- -          _ -'   - "40                  4
X ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s5 rO  S                                              0                            0 
1142 t                115'      \/   //16'wo                        17\E    1OX                        r      1s
e,--- -0  > /   XAm,zrJng   r   2    \-                    CHINA                                     RUS,p,AN    ~TZ ~ X          )-- ld
!   T_,RRGTDARCLUA ,-39:K>JR  
,t  .D$// /;-/ - 5t HEBEI ,' MONGOSA '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t'V4,, v/t +;2^.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~91
~ />2 ?  ;  ._   _.  -  _ (......... 
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B                                                                    HEAI EE0MN RJC RA /k-g+/./tK><    
Y s *   /f          4IE7SECARE5                            ~      )             7K.<  VKe             X      ">a?
ghttn   Te                    30-         4,@pRAEDG&C8TELIENIIB_E                          n ?        - 9;            c
\ ==  >=  S  v t IRF GATOII AREA BOUNDA31ES .s < s / ~~~~~~~~~~~ 8 > - t                               a
36  11X  6'                                                          11'75 on   s ~         RYNE    NARE  cnca .PRs  >          HAE 



IRIKL) 2Y577
RUSSIAN     *' N                                  1163-                      17,-8                                                   ir13                                                    2                          2
FEDERATIONN                                                                 -~~-'              -
V 38' "
MAONGOLLA                      'PiH4I                                                ~         /    -                                                             0/l3
1UN~~~~~<7                                                                
rZ< 4c~            P6   A'~JPN                                         i 
RD                   OA<- 
Ul 14                    115-~~
A                                                                                                                                                                           A"~~~~~~H
HENAN5 CHIN
OCEAN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~SADN
33>L47AAA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARUTUACMRSV
5/               ~~~~~~~I PRJV IRA
IRRIGATEDN AGRICBULTURALS
INTEN CIF CAPTIOALS POJC
NHATINDLNPTA
RAILRAEDMS  POETRA
 PROT NCE CONAPITAS
ShangqA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AY19



111'                                                                                                                                       ~112  13u    1 14  11t  I  , 16'
SHANXI                                                                    Handan
36-                                      T. _. y                                                                                 HEBEI                                     0..  Le,
} J ToCharszhi gj T. Ch  Anyn     ,, 3d-
-awcH                                       Ibi 0 .0t
FEDERATION                           CHINA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NON                                         5
HE NAN                                                                   
s 0g . . ./! XuahsJng . < \* $) r t 34urhon
ff  /            <           . -- <+ ~~~~Zhoukou                                       ,-         /
-  i,   g            f                             f   00                    0 0,' _)  XNHU~~~ANHI,
iifROKBEfI' >   S_,A   1
<-  ' ta 'llo  _OR       Kc -<                                                                                        - - I RJC AES
i  -I    I  '   a   ,  . . 
f ~        ~          ~         KLOETR        0                                                           '-EECTS.-IE
v  _ _  r-._,   FEDERATKON  s  '-^\ ,_,    ,)    fj  ,        IRRI       ATOED      CAPRITA  L URL                   RA  ag,EIA
B" _o _1c    dLAdo                                        .JCA                          MAI RO FCCCn  1 r  IT N II ATIS  11waoAai PRANGXI t 
Roccd.<M^ w     ' a.oa  f I  5| h R,Ct-                                   -E  -i,l -  P ROVIGAKNC AREA80NDARIES            Rd 01c |! Lo Loo              -S -?_
3    ---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PIrrhnl sI -vE|~PTOINCDRIES or"en'sfeuc  116                                                                                    -                    117 
ff    ._    .    l   P.D.R   r;   r'  1  2sroee+, r ' k PH!LIPfTNES ._ boundones 6 l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~33



1137l-\                                                     SHA/-s /n- zl 1-6INDONGI  /
' )  < }   I   ~~   <:  aZ       _        W     S     t                                 lionyingoX
,hagqiu.4                                 t
/                       '*d' "-
3-K        HENAN                                X        T F            I 1O
_Bozhou  Mi                                        3      \,M OSuqian
-Zhoukou
32~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
00 ~~RDIUIUASSIFIAON         C8                                  CHINAOMEJTERS
1O                                             C.. NSIFIC  ON       ROJECT
rERI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
-3'.    V            ,   'j'IRIAE0GICLUA   NTNICI
Kr    't ~aancZ?~t44                  I ROJECCgREA
30'~~~~~~~~ t' '05150 VES2'3
  PROVINCE GUPUALS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~01
NGXI   ~         VTGA DPN                             R~aItP Ja
* N~~a~~ C'p.'       r'    1510932                RALROADST N.-h-
115'        1-aaOaaa   ORAIla,                                                                             ~aa
""'VNNNROASI            *0d             ZHFJIANG
a~~~~~~USA                                                        CHINA-
a         (nO. V~FEERTION$                                      POTCBDDRR                                9                         2''
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 2VDR



117                                   118119                                                                        120'                                  121'
35'
SHANDONG                                                                                                                                                   35
rZaozhuang
U,
0 4 ,,/     \34 -
34-
'o                                Xv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
--ANHU/Er\\4I                                                                                                                        G
7  v --  anzho u                         <                       z              NTnaons 
^                  _j                                                                                                      Yan '"-i4"'  '   o                                '' -
~~~~~~~~~~~19                                                                                             I                                   v   'Tnln          ,)     ,
_  FEDER<ATION       f                                                             HN             
;n , < ; X t 9 ~~IRRIGATED AGRICULTURAL
E      --@''.z-s rv  v        ---S  INTENSIFICATION 11 PROJECT                                                              ZHEIIANG                          v
MONGOLIA                       r"'                           '            s           ~x s{   JIANGSU 
JEr_.  ~~~ _V                                          ( t   eo                 DEVELOFMENT PROJECT AREAS                        o                     S30
,  .                        ~'< 56hA ,, NRET OP                                              IRRIGATED AGRCULTURAL INRENSIFRCATTON rHou
t  <'eANSU- > ' 1't<' '' ' 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~I PBOJECTAREAS 
__ CMdJ<                                                                           i       <'hn ,'. ... ................................. , ,;  -  IRRIATON AREA RGUNGARIRS
N  s:u.a4s       t   ,  I ,>  A;a     -                                     SELECTED CITIES                                    0      20       I0      60
>'  >- '-<-'~4  SJIwGr " syf 5  J t-    .                    PROVINICE CAPITALS                                                KILOMETERS
* A >Nr,;,b ...5U ,I~~ICW,                         2>.............   NATONAL CAPITAL ,5np.ihePDgnmoTWoTn
C'Oi"       "'            C     W               '4'blN / '                          ' A'-W -<9/C ...| .............   RAILROADS Thirul5 oo  anlco:dnohrE=o 
.o __ _0,                                                                                  -.  - HUPN}      PROVINCE OGUNDARIES                                  wI' rnl:n cWltf5aWSs y ra 
*, LEG' ,VIETNAM ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~,jg ial
A  ,T SE           PIIIUPONES                                                                                                            121'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



