RP- 35
IAIL II PIP                       R -3
Annex 11-15
Project Monitoring Plan
Chart of Management Institution
Water Balance Study Report
Dam Safety Report
Policy Framework of Social Assessment
State Office for Comprehensive Agricultural Development
April,1 998






Content
Annex I I Project Monitoring Plan .1
1. Schedule of IAIL II Project.                                      1
2. Procurement Progress of Machinery,
Equipment & Materials .4-...............-                           4
3. Schedule of fund allocation for IAIL II Project .10
4. Key Mantrap indicators of IAIL II Subprojects .*- 11
5. Operational Plan 1998 - 2002 on Environmental Monitoring .16
6. IAIL II Project Soil Fertility Monitoring Plan .22
Annex 12 Project Organization Chart.                                     25
Annex 13  Analysis of Water Supply & Demand Balance.                     26
Annex 14  Dam Safety Report .    *--......-..--..--..--..-..--...... --.*--47
Annex 15  Policy Framework of the Social Assessment on Land
Acquisition & Resettlement of IAIL II Project .84
Appendix 1 Outline for Preparation of Subproject Land
Acquisition  &  Resettlement Implementation  Plans .90






Annex 15
POLICY FRANIEWORK OF THE SOCIAL ASSESSMNIENT ON
LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLENIENT OF IAIL II PROJECT
1.    Objectives
Under the IAIL 2 Project, the selection and design of subprojects fully considered how
to avoid involuntary resettlement caused by any permanent and temporary land
occupation. The project will promote farmers to actively participate in the implementation.
The Policy framework for the social assessment and resettlement under the Program
Approach guidelines for the project is in compliance with the World Bank O.D.4.30 and
Guidelines for Involuntary Resettlement Action Plan, the Comprehensive Agricultural
Development Project Implementation Procedures compiled by SOCAD and World Bank
preparation mission, as well as Chinese laws and regulations. The objectives are as
follows, which is aimed at avoiding possible negative impacts during implementation.
(a) Ensure project implementation, avoiding the potential negative impacts, which is
including involuntary resettlement and cropping compensation caused by tentative land
occupation in project period.
(b) Strengthen monitoring and evaluation so as to find in time the possible land acquisition
and occupation.
(c) If some of the subprojects which would cause land requirement and resettlement have
to be redesigned and re-selected, these subprojects will not be financed unless the
resettlement plans are prepared and arrangements are properly made following the
requirement of Policy Framework ( See Appendix I ).
(d) POCADs should prepare the provincial social assessment report, following the
requirements of the Policy Framework and CAD project procedures.
2.    General situation of the Project
2.1 The Irrigated Agricultural Intensification Project Il (IAIL II) is an important
component of the comprehensive agricultural development (CAD) program during the
Ninth Five Year Plan period. According to the national Ninth Five Year Plan of CAD, the
project areas under IAIL 2are located at 131 counties of 28 prefectures (or prefecture
cities) in the five provinces of Hebei, Henan, Shandong, Jiangsu and Anhui, where the
main irrigation systems have been basically completed. As analyzed and estimated based
on the completed feasibility study reports for the Project, the Project is proposed to
improve 1.535 million ha of irrigation area, build 48,300 ha of on-farm shelter belts,
improve land leveling, perfect the agriculture service systems of each level, and extend
new agro-technology. The project period is five years. After completion, the grain output
of the project areas will be increased 4.29 million ton and the output value 5.875 billion



yuan annually, 18 million agricultural population in the project areas can directly benefit
from the Project 1) the annual average per capita income will be increased by 326 yuan;
2) during implementation, additional employment opportunities will be provided for more
than 60,000 persons annually in the project areas, 3) the effective supply of agricultural
products and by-products will be improved and so will the supply of staple and non-staple
foods for urban and rural residents, and 4) the conditions of agricultural production will be
improved, in particular the intensity of labor of the farmers will be lowered by increasing
mechanization.
3.  Measures to avoid involuntary resettlement and tentative land occupation
3.1 IAIL II project has been determined according to the national policies for CAD and
the Regulations for the Management of the National Comprehensive Agricultural
Development. The investment of the Project is mainly provided for on-farm irrigation and
drainage auxiliary works in water resources component, soil improvement and social
service systems of a,ro-machinary, agro-technology, etc. in agriculture component and
shelter belts and necessary nurseries in forestry component. Except for only few
necessary construction works on the main irrigation systems serving the subproject areas,
no main systems will be built. All subprojects will be applied for bottom up, while selected
optimum top down. Local farmers, Farmers' Associations will make recommendations in
terms of the project selection and design to build their project efficiently. Farmers are
willing to be financed with the World Bank loan and are demanding start work as soon as
possible.
3.2 The project selection process minimizes the negative impact on farmers caused by land
occupation, project construction and housing removal.
According to 10 years experience of CAD  project, following measures are
determined by each PMO to avoid any land occupation:
a.  Upgrade the quality to the specified standard by dredging and repairing the existed
branch canals, laterals and ditches,
b.  Increase arable land by reducing ditches length with straight instead of curved on-
farm works. Wherever new ditches have to be constructed, the farm land area of each
household will be adjusted during land leveling to ensure no lose of area;
c.  Land leveling and dredging should be finished between autumn harvest and winter
planting season. The few that cannot be finished should be scheduled in advance for
the cropping rotation to reduce damage. For subprojects that cannot be finished
between crop seasons, no crop should be planted in the proposed construction areas
to avoid any waste of crops,
d. Minimize land using by optimum canal profile design and seepage control (lining) of
the canals which will reduce the canal cross-section and land required;



e  Strengthen monitoring on project land use and impact
3 4 The project is proposed to improve the irrigation condition of 1.535 million ha arable
area served by the existed irrigation schemes which are made of earth, old and out of
repair and have large cross-section areas. After lining, the cross-section areas of canals
will be reduced. Therefore, the implementation of the Project will reduce the land
occupied by canals over the project area and provided no additional incremental land of 3-
5%.
3.5 Dam safety inspection have been completed regarding the 25 dams which are over 15
meters in the subproject areas. The 4 problem dams have identified no land acqusition.
4. Related policies, laws and regulations
4.1 If resettlement and cropping compensation is required, following regulations will be
followed
4.2 The land acquisition of the IAIL II Project should strictly abide by the Law of the
People' Republic of China on Land Management, the Implementation Regulations of the
Law of the People' Republic of China on Land Management and related laws, regulations
issued by the five provinces of Hebei, Shandong, Anhui, Henan and Jiangsu. The agency
needing land for the construction of the project should make application to the local
department of land management and acquire the right for land use through administrative
planning or paid transfer.
4.3 According to the Law of the People' Republic of China on Land Management, China
implements the paid use system for state-owned land. The agency plans to use land for the
construction of project should make application for the right of land use according to legal
procedures. The provincial, prefecture or county department of land management will
supervise, approve the use of land depending on the scale, and submit the application to
the government at the county level /up level for approval according to the authorized
approval. Regarding the application of rural enterprise for land use, the department of land
management should review carefully and heed the comments raised by the departments of
environmental protection on the siting and planning.
4.4 According to the Law of the People' Republic of China on Land Management, the
land use for the infrastructure in townships and villages with IAIL 2 Project, township
government should review and then apply to the county department of land management
that approve before the project implementation and submit to the government at the
county level/up level for approval according to the authorized limits.
4.5 The land acquisition for the Project must follow the procedures stipulated by the Law
of the People' Republic of China on Land Management. Related departments, including
village administrative commissions, township governments, provincial, prefecture and
county departments of land management have cleared the purposes of the Project and the
quantities of land acquisition The departments of land management at all levels have



guaranteed to provide quantified compensation in the case of livelihood affected by land
acquisition.
4.6 The definition of the Project must follow the Water Law of the People' Republic of
China, the Policies for the Comprehensive Agricultural Development approved by the
State Council, the Regulations for the Management of Subsidy Funds for Small-sized
Farmland Water Resources Projects and Water- Soil Conservation jointly issued by the
Ministries of Finance, Water Resources, as well as the regulations for the management of
water resources works in the subproject areas.
4.7 Preparation and implementation of the resettlement plan and/or compensation for
occupied land in any subprojects should be in accordance with the World Bank OD4.30.
5. Complementation principles
5.1 Involuntary resettlement should be avoided/minimized in the reasonable extent, using
all the feasible programs to avoid/mitigate the relocation requirement.
5.2 If resettlement cannot be avoided, proposed plans should be prepared during the
subproject preparation. Adequate funds and works benefit should be provided for
resettlement to ensure the further improvement in living standard and production .
5.3 Subprojets without resettlement should adopt all the reasonable methods to
avoid/minimize arable land occupation, cropping damage and possible negative impact
from subproject construction ( See para.3.3 ).
5.4 The proposed implementation and design should be compiled in terms of the sufficient
discussion and consultation on all the subjects with resettlement and compensation,
encouraging with project affected people and community participation , introducing the
rights belonging to them.
5.5 All the cost related to resettlement and compensation should be included in the
POCADs cost estimates.
5.6   The compensation for the resettlement, cropping and related loses due to
temporary land occupation should be paid on the basis of replacement cost. The rate
should be in compliance with each provicial Implementation Approach and submit to
SOCAD for review.
5.7   The implementation and compensation plan of the subprojects with resettlement
should be reviewed before appraisal by provinces and submited to SOCAD which will
review and submit them to the World Bank. The subprojects can be financed only after the
World Bank review.



6.    Mlanagerial organizations and responsibilities
6.1 PMOs of CAD at all levels should be responsible for the planning and implementation
of the Project. The selection and implementation of subprojects should be made strictly
according to the Implementation Procedures for the Comprehensive Agricultural
Development Program and the IAIL 2 program approach.
6.2 The planning and statistics groups in PMOs of CAD at all levels should assign special
persons to be in charge of review and management of land use under the project. The
subprojects which change design/site for some reasons must follow the procedures and
requirements of the resettlement plan and should be compiled by the implementation
entities and submitted to the PMOs at higher levels and county land management sectors.
6.3 Resettlement caused by changing design/site should be carried out by both PMOs and
land management bureaus sectors at the same level. PMOs should guide implementation
entities to compile the allocation and implementation plan accordin, to the Policy
Framework as well as provide resettlement guidance. Meanwhile, PMOs should also assist
raising of funds, adopting reasonable measures, handling problems, and supervising the
implementation.
The governmental departments of land management at all levels should implement
management by various levels according to the authorization given by the state, review
and check the scope and quantity of land acquisition, record land acquisition, handle the
procedures for land acquisition and supervise the implementation of compensation
measures. Only after approval by the department of land management can the subprojects
be included in the annual investment plan under the Project.
7. Resettlement plan and implementation
7.1   Subprojects with resettlement must have the plan in order to be financed under the
Project.
7.2   The plan should include: (1) location and scope of the land acquisition, (2)
purpose of land acquisition, (3) related policies and laws, (4) basic data; (5) compensation
standards, (6) institution and staffing; (7) community participation, (8) effect on livelihood
and community; (9) land acquisition schedule; (10) cost estimates and timelines and (11)
supervision and appraisal of land acquisition.
7.3    Resettlement proposed procedures should include: (1) survey the social economy
in the region, (2) survey and record the affected people ( e.g. numbers, households,
villages, type and quantity of land acquisition, severity of impacts ); (3) prepare the
resettlement measures and compensation standard based on related policies, laws,
regulations; and (4) prepare the compensation plan and implementation schedule.



8.    Nlonitoring and evaluation
8 1   SOCAD should hire an independent unit to monitor and evaluate land acquisition,
compensation and temporary land for project construction.
8.2    Construction land area, acquisition and compensation rates should be included in
the implementation statement of PMOs and submit for review. Monitoring staff should
periodically inspect and visit the field to find the problems, then make recommendations to
PMOs to solve them
8.3    Key monitoring indicators:
(a) Whether the selection and approval of subprojects are in compliance with the
Implementation Procedures of the Comprehensive Agricultural Development ( CAD )
Project and IAIL 2 Project;
(b) Whether the subproject involving land acquisition has prepared the action plan
.according to the requirement of the land acquisition and resettlement plan, Policy
Framework and World Bank OD 4.30;
(c)   Whether there has been adequate consultation and participation by the affected
people;
(d) Signing date of land acquisition agreement,
(e) Time of payment for compensation;
(f) Raising and use of compensation funds;
(g) Type, quantity and location of land for adjustment,
(h) Whether the affected farmers' households have been allocated compensation properly;
(i) The change of economic status of affected farmers' households;
(j) Use of land acquired, etc.
9. Grievance procedures for affected livelihood
9.1   The land acquisition and compensation of the Project must follow laws, respect the
willingness of farmers whose lands are to be acquired, and encourage their participation
and consultation. In the preparation stage of land acquisition, under the charge of PMOs,
the entities for the implementation of subprojects should go to villages and visit farmers'
households, invite village cadres and farmers' households to participate in the evaluation,
selection, and discussion of the location and quantity of land to be acquired and the



8.   NMonitoring and evaluation
8.1   SOCAD should hire an independent unit to monitor and evaluate land acquisition,
compensation and temporary land for project construction.
8.2   Construction land area, acquisition and compensation rates should be included in
the implementation statement of PMOs and submit for review. Monitoring staff should
periodically inspect and visit the field to find the problems, then make recommendations to
PMOs to solve them.
8.3    Key monitoring indicators.
(a) Whether the selection and approval of subprojects are in compliance with the
Implementation Procedures of the Comprehensive Agricultural Development ( CAD )
Project and IAIL 2 Project,
(b) Whether the subproject involving land acquisition has prepared the action plan
according to the requirement of the land acquisition and resettlement plan, Policy
Framework and World Bank OD 4.30;
(c)   Whether there has been adequate consultation and participation by the affected
people;
(d) Signing date of land acquisition agreement,
(e) Time of payment for compensation;
(f) Raising and use of compensation funds;
(g) Type, quantity and location of land for adjustment;
(h) Whether the affected farmers' households have been allocated compensation properly;
(i) The change of economic status of affected farmers' households;
() Use of land acquired, etc.
9. Grievance procedures for affected livelihood
9.1   The land acquisition and compensation of the Project must follow laws, respect the
willingness of farmers whose lands are to be acquired, and encourage their participation
and consultation. In the preparation stage of land acquisition, under the charge of PMOs,
the entities for the implementation of subprojects should go to villages and visit farmers'
households, invite village cadres and farmers' households to participate in the evaluation,
selection, and discussion of the location and quantity of land to be acquired and the



Appendix I
Outlines for Preparation of Subproject Land Acquisition and
Resettlement Implementation Plans
The sub-projects involved should prepare the land acquisition and resettlement
implementation plan according to the regulations of the IAIL2 social assessment policy
framework for land acquisition and resettlement, based on the following outline.
1. Scope of Land Acquisition in Subprojects
The section mainly describes the content, location, scale and quantity of land to be
acquired and occupied of the sub-project with indication map attached. If house removal
and resettlement are involved, a detailed description should also be presented. It should
be stated that the present design scheme has been selected from all schemes by taking the
rule of minimizing the quantity of land acquired and occupied into full consideration. In
addition, the types of land acquisition should also be made clear, including cultivated
lands ( irrigated and dry lands ) and waste land. If the cultivated land is involved, the
production as well as the methods and prospects of resettlement of affected households
should be stated, including the objective of production and livelihood recovery as well as
measures, steps and time to be taken to achieve the above objectives.
2. Policy and Regulation on Land Acquisition and Occupation
Important policies and regulations on land acquisition including resettlement, if necessary,
should be mentioned. They should refer not only to state laws and regulations such as
Land Law and Water Law, etc, but also relevant implementation rules, regulations and
supplementary documentation issued in the province and municipality as well as World
Bank OD 4.30. Emphasis should be attached to the introduction of important paragraphs
directly relating to land acquisition. In addition, some local doings and policies possible
to adopted during land acquisition, although not included in official laws and regulations,
should also be introduced and their roles such as the methods of land compensation,
change and calculation of resettlement should be stated.
3. Baseline Data on Land Acquisition and Its Impact
The land acquisition implementation plan should include collection of comprehensive
and accurate baseline data from field the surveys. The data should include the number
and name of the affected item (village and household, cultivated and non-cultivated land,
paddy and dry land of cultivated land), the quantity and population of affected farm
households as well as the area and quality, if necessary, relocation of buildings. In the
meanwhile, the survey for local general social economic conditions and farmer per capita
income should also be done. In addition, the damaged young crops, fish ponds, etc.
should be included in the survey.
90



4. Criteria for Resettlement and Compensation
This section covers the compensation policy and criteria for land acquisition and
resettlement in the implementation plan. The cn'teria should be classified based on
different quality and type of the land and might differ based on different provincial and
local social economic conditions. In addition, the compensation and resettlement can be
classified into two types: compensation to the affected conmnunity, such as land,
farnland and facilities, etc; the direct compensation to individual farn households,
including the private properties such as young crops, fruits, trees as well as houses (for
employees, including unemployment subsidies and temporary subsidies). Their purposes
are to protect the rights and welfare of affected people and units. For those items without
concrete criteria but which need discussing, their arrangement and scope should be
explained in the plan.
5. Institutional Organization and Staffing
The institutional organization for overall land acquisition and resettlement should be
stated. First, which institution is to be in charge and complete land acquisition and
resettlement implementation plan (generally speaking, special groups organized by
concerned PPMO and County PMO will coordinate the land acquisition and resettlement
in their regions); second, which institution is to implement the plan. If they are not the
same institutions, what is their relationship in terms of responsibility. The staff
arrangement in each institution should also be mentioned in the Plan.
6. Community Participation in Land Acquisition and Resettlement
PMOs and construction units should fully discuss the land acquisition and resettlement
caused by subproject with units and individuals involved. This should inform each
village and household of land acquisition in advance through conferences and other
means and state specific relevant policies, compensation and arrangements in detail. The
steps and methods to be adopted to consult with units and individuals involved should be
described in the land acquisition and resettlement plan. In addition, their comments and
recommendations should be taken into account during land acquisition and an attitude of
understanding and consultation should be taken so as to promote their participation in
land acquisition and resettlement.
7. Cost Estimates of Land Acquisition and Resettlement
The cost estimate of land acquisition and resettlement will be deternined by relevant
laws and regulations. land types and resettlement criteria, with contingencies and price
escalation included. The cost estimate should be classified base on the affected items,
individuals and units involved, and funding sources should be also stated.



8. Measures and Timetable for Land Acquisition and Resettlement
The implementation plan of land acquisition and resettlement should cover the concrete
methods, measures and steps proposed as well as timetables (corresponding to
implementation progress) and annual progress, including the time and duration of land
acquisition and occupation as well as the time of compensation ( or the time of land
adjustment and change ) .
9. Monitoring and Appraisal of Land Acquisition and Resettlement
The monitoring and appraisal can help project units fully determine if the expected
objectives of land acquisition and resettlement have been achieved in quality and time,
and provide experiences and lessons for further adjusting and promoting the work. What
kind of format wNill be used to complete the monitoring of project units and what kind of
internal monitoring system and indicators will be stated in the implementation plan of
land acquisition and resettlement. The concrete methods, procedures and time of
monitoring and appraisal should be mentioned. In particular, it should be emphasized and
made a regulation that affected units and individuals should be invited to participate in
the monitoring and evaluation of land acquisition and resettlement.
10. Mechanism for Protection of Rights and Grievances
For the affected people and units, their rights should be fully recognized, maintained and
protected. In addition to some adequate compensation, opportunities and rights for further
development should be made available for them. The mechanism of claiming should be
regulated and set up in the implementation plan of land acquisition and resettlement. In
particular, if any project affected people have justified grievances during implementation,
they should have an adequate channel to report and make claims to the departments
concemed. Those claims found to be not in conformity with plan and policy must be
settled quickly.



Flowchart of Claim Channel
SOCAD
Provincial Bureau of Land                PPMO                     Monitoring Group
;9lanagement
Court         County Bureau of Land                County PMO
Management                          4
Count\y Implementation Group
%'illage Commnittee Involved4
Affected Farm Household
Monitoring of IAIL2 Land Acquisition Progress
______    Time Arrangement
No.                         Content                          Name   Name   Name   Name   Name
_________________________ _________________   Date    Date  Date    Date    Date
I      Project unit makes applications to PMO, PMO reviews.  _   _ =    ==                        =
2      Project unit makes applications to LNiB. LMB approves.
3      PMO,LNIB, project unit and affected unit jointly review
land quantity acqulired and compensation criteria.
4      Project unit and affected unit sign agreement.
5      LNMB proceeds wvith procedure of land acquisition for
project unit
6      Project unit pays land acquisition charge, LMB allocate
land compensation fee to affected unit.
7      Affected unit hands over land to LMB, LMB allocates
land to project unit.                                                 _
8      Affected village adjusts land.
Note: LMB refers to Land Management Bureau
93



Annex 15
IAII, 2 Project Social Impact Survey on Farmer Households
IProvince County  Village                                                      Date:
Name No. Income Prod.cost  Expenditure        Without Project       With project               Change             Compensation
Arable  Irr.land/dryl   Arable  Irr.land/dryl    Arable Irr.land/dry|    Arabl Irr.land/dry|
Note:The unit of area is ha. The model village which has land occupation should involve all the households.



Annex 15
Land Occupation Survey for Agricultural Service System Construction
Province
Items               No Exisited area    Buildings(M2/set)                        Proposed acquisition ha.                    Remarks
ciNew  Reha.                                                    Township non-cultivated    Collective arable     Farmers'arable
Agro-mach.station   .    _.___________=_._._==
Technical station
Seeds station
Blending plant        __=_.____=_=                                                                                              =
I~.



Annex 15
On-farm Works Land Occupation Survey
Province
Works                     Without project                              With project               Changed               Among which increased
Top width/road(m)   length(m)   Occup.ha. Top width/road(m)    length(m)   Occup. (ha.)         Total Colic.   Farmers' Wasted  Non-arable
Canals:
Branch
Lateral
Sub-lat.
Drains:
Large__        _ _ _ __            _ _ _  ___                          _ _ _  _ _ _   _ _
Medium
Small
On-farm road
Pumping                         .                                                                      .       .
station
.Dams....=..



Model V'illaoe Sur-vey of IAIL 2 Project Social Impact
Province   County    Village                      Date:
Basic           Household No.               Agri.population
Labors                   Arable area                             I Water land
Irri.dry land                          non-irri.dry land
Per capita area                        Annual per capita income
Planting area                          Among which: wheat                         maize
cotton                   paddy                                    others
Main system & agri.project land occupation
Items           Before p After                                  Changed occupation
Main canal
branch
large
pumps
on-farm road
NMain system & agrLproject land occupation changed
Items           Tota]    Collective    Farmers'                   househoulds     Wasted Non-arable
Main canal
branch__            _ _ __                _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _
large                                  _ _
pumps
on-farm road
Partial irrigation on-farm works occupation
Items           Before p After                                  Changed occupation
lateral
sub-lateral
large
mediumw
small                              _
Patial irriagation on-farm works changed occupation
Items           Total    Collective    Farmers'                   househoulds     Wasted Non-arable
lateral
sub-lateral
large                                               .
medium
small.
Dry land reha.on-farm works occupation
Items           Before p After                                  Changed occupation
lateral
sub-lateral
large
medium
small           _
Dry land reha.on-farm works changed occupation
Items           Total   Collective     Farmers'                   househoulds     Wasted Non-arable
lateral
sub-lateral
Targe                                                             l               l
medium
small            _                      _                                            .
97



