Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4354 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 31, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4354 CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1998, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
Parts A and B(2) of the Project will be carried out by the Project 
Provinces (as defined in Section 1.02(m) of this Agreement) with the Borrower’s 
assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the 
Project Provinces part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Project Provinces;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Allocated Amount” means, in respect of each Project Province, an amount 
of the Loan allocated by the Borrower, through SOCAD, to said Project Province and to 
be utilized by said Project Province for purposes of carrying out its Respective Part 
of the Project.
(b)
“Anhui” means the Borrower’s Province of Anhui, and any successor 
thereto.
(c)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(d)
“CPMO” means the central Project management office to be maintained by 
the Borrower within SOCAD in accordance with the provisions of Part A of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
(e)
“Environmental Management Program” means, in respect of each Project 
Province, the environmental management program referred to in Part B.3(a) of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
(f)
“Hebei” means the Borrower’s Province of Hebei, and any successor 
thereto.
(g)
“Henan” means the Borrower’s Province of Henan, and any successor 
thereto.
(h)
“Jiangsu” means the Borrower’s Province of Jiangsu, and any successor 
thereto.
(i)
“Large Dam” means any dam which is 15 meters in height or more or which 
presents special design complexities, and which serves a Subproject, together with 
said dam’s associated structures.
(j)
“Local PMOs” means, in respect of each Project Province, the Project 
management offices to be maintained at the municipal, county and township levels 
within said province.
(k)
“PPMO” means, in respect of each Project Province, the provincial Project 
management office to be maintained by said Project Province within its Provincial 
Office for Comprehensive Agricultural Development, in accordance with the provisions 
of Part A.1. of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
(l)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and the Project 
Provinces of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
(m)
“Project Provinces” means Anhui, Hebei, Henan, Jiangsu and Shandong; and 
“Project Province” means any of the Project Provinces. 
(n)
“Respective Part of the Project” means, in respect of each Project 
Province, all the Subprojects to be carried out in said Project Province under Part A 
of the Project and the activities to be carried out by it under Part B(2) of the 
Project. 
(o)
“Shandong” means the Borrower’s Province of Shandong, and any successor 
thereto. 
(p)
“SIDDs” means self-financing irrigation and drainage districts to be 
established under Part B(2) of the Project; and “SIDD” means any of the SIDDs. 
Page  3
(q)
“SOCAD” means the State Office for Comprehensive Agricultural 
Development, a department within the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and any successor 
thereto.
(r)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
(s)
“Subproject” means a specific investment project to be carried out in a 
Project Province under Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.
(t)
“WSCs” means water supply companies established within SIDDs under Part 
B(2)(a) of the Project; and “WSC” means any of the WSCs.
(u)
“WUAs” means water user associations established under Part B(2)(a) of 
the Project; and “WUA” means any of the WUAs.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to three 
hundred million Dollars ($300,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial 
period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars 
for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
Page  4
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall 
carry out Part B(1) of the Project, through SOCAD, with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the purpose; and (ii) without any limitation 
or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall cause the 
Project Provinces to carry out their Respective Parts of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, and environmental practices, and in accordance with programmatic 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable the Project Provinces to perform such obligations, and shall 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01(a) of this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the actions specified in the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement in order to ensure the proper implementation of the 
Project and the achievement of the Project’s objectives. 
(c)
For purposes of carrying out each Project Province’s Respective Part of 
the Project, the Borrower, through SOCAD, shall make available to said Project 
Province its respective Allocated Amount on terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Bank. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
Page  5
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by each 
Project Province in respect of its Respective Part of the Project, pursuant to Section 
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, consolidating the 
plans prepared by the Project Provinces pursuant to Section 2.03(b) of the Project 
Agreement, for the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; and
(ii)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
Any of the Project Provinces shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
Page  6
that a Project Province will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01(a) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by each of the Project Provinces, and is legally binding 
upon the Project Provinces in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINANMIN Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Liu Xiaoming
Page  7
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jane Loos
Acting Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works:
(a) for Part A of the
   96,000,000
25%
Project (excluding
items referred to in
Categories (1)(b) and
(1)(c) below)
(b) for land prepara-
   42,500,000
20%
tion, soil improvement,
eachwork, tree plant-
ing and roads under
Part A of the Project
(c) for the center
    8,000,000
75%
under Part B(1) of 
the Project
(2)
Goods
  127,900,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 75% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants' services,
  20,100,000
100%
training and workshops
for all Parts of the
Project (excluding
Part B(2)(c) thereof)
(4)
Consultants' services
   2,000,000
20%
for Part B(2)(c) of
the Project
(5)
Unallocated
   3,500,000
TOTAL
 300,000,000
Page  8
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region shall be deemed “foreign 
expenditures”; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$20,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after October 31, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts not 
exceeding $2,000,000 equivalent, (b) goods under contracts not exceeding $200,000 
equivalent; (c) consultants’ services provided by firms under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent, (d) consultants’ services provided by individuals under contracts 
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (e) training and workshops, regardless of the 
cost thereof; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in increasing 
agricultural production and farmers’ incomes, and establishing systems to ensure 
sustainable use, development and management of water and land resources in irrigated 
areas, all in the Borrower’s Huang-Huai-Hai Plain.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Investments
Carrying out in the Project Provinces of specific investment projects in the 
following areas:
(1)
Irrigation and Drainage
Improvement and expansion of irrigation and drainage systems, through such 
activities as:  (a) excavation of channels; (b) construction and rehabilitation of 
canals, drains and ancillary structures, pumping stations, tubewells, pipelines for 
irrigation systems, and rural and farm roads; and (c) provision of sprinkler and drip 
irrigation systems, power lines, machinery, equipment and vehicles.
(2)
Agricultural Intensification and Support Services
Increase in agricultural production through such activities as:  (a) land 
leveling and deep plowing; (b) application of crop residues and organic fertilizer to 
the soil; (c) establishment and upgrading of seed processing centers and seed farms; 
(d) provision of facilities and equipment to strengthen agro-technical extension 
centers and stations and recruitment and training of extension staff; (e) provision of 
facilities, machinery and equipment to strengthen agricultural machinery service 
systems; (f) establishment of fertilizer blending plants to provide formulated 
chemical fertilizer appropriate for local soil and crop requirements; (g) construction 
and equipping of organic manure digesting pits; (h) provision of pest forecasting 
stations; (i) development and implementation of training programs for farmers to 
increase their knowledge of scientific farming technology and integrated pest 
management; and (j) provision of agricultural production materials, such as chemical 
Page  9
fertilizers, low-toxicity pesticides and plastic membranes, to farmers.
(3)
Forestation
Increase in vegetative cover through: (a) establishment of tree nurseries; (b) 
planting of on-farm windbreaks and protective tree belts; (c) application of pest and 
disease control measures to windbreaks and forest belts; and (d) provision of 
machinery and equipment for tree planting and maintenance.
Part B:
Institutional Development
(1)
National Level
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the capabilities of the CPMO staff in 
the preparation, appraisal and supervision of Subprojects and other projects developed 
based on a programmatic approach, and in project and financial management, said 
program to include the assignment of additional staff to the CPMO, development and 
operation of a management information system (including a financial management system) 
linking the CPMO, the PPMOs and Local PMOs, provision of training programs, equipment 
and vehicles and construction of a center for said system and for national-level 
training related to comprehensive agricultural development.
(2)
Provincial Level
(a)
Carrying out of programs for the development of self-financing irrigation 
and drainage districts in each Project Province, comprising, inter alia, water supply 
companies and water user associations, in order to ensure the sustainability and 
self-financing of irrigated agriculture, and improve irrigation system performance and 
effective decentralized irrigation services, cost recovery and farmer participation.
(b)
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the capabilities of the PPMO and 
Local PMOs within each Project Province in the preparation, appraisal, supervision and 
management of Subprojects and other projects developed based on a programmatic 
approach, said program to include the development and operation of a management 
information system linked to the CPMO, and the provision of training, equipment and 
vehicles.
(c)
Carrying out in each Project Province of programs of adaptive research, 
studies, experiments and environmental monitoring in the areas of water conservancy, 
agriculture and forestry, including the provision of equipment required therefor.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
February 15, 2004
6,350,000 
August 15, 2004
6,540,000 
February 15, 2005
6,735,000 
August 15, 2005
6,930,000 
February 15, 2006
7,135,000 
August 15, 2006
7,345,000 
February 15, 2007
7,565,000 
August 15, 2007
7,790,000 
February 15, 2008
8,020,000 
August 15, 2008
8,255,000 
February 15, 2009
8,500,000 
August 15, 2009
8,750,000 
February 15, 2010
9,010,000 
August 15, 2010
9,275,000 
February 15, 2011
9,550,000 
Page  10
August 15, 2011
9,830,000 
February 15, 2012
      10,120,000 
August 15, 2012
      10,420,000 
February 15, 2013
      10,730,000 
August 15, 2013
      11,045,000 
February 15, 2014
      11,370,000 
August 15, 2014
      11,710,000 
February 15, 2015
      12,055,000 
August 15, 2015
      12,410,000 
February 15, 2016
      12,775,000 
August 15, 2016
      13,155,000 
February 15, 2017
      13,545,000 
August 15, 2017
      13,945,000 
February 15, 2018
      14,355,000 
August 15, 2018
      14,785,000
______________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as  provided 
in Sections  4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors (other than goods manufactured in the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower and works carried out by 
contractors from said region).
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Works
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
Page  11
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $137,700,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $248,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
(c)
Force Account and Beneficiary Participation 
On-farm works (comprising land preparation, soil improvement, earthworks, tree 
planting and construction of farm roads under Part A of the Project) which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing $212,500,000 equivalent 
or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be carried out by 
force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines, 
or by the use of Project beneficiaries hired in accordance with procedures acceptable 
to the Bank.
2.
Goods
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent, but not less than 
$100,000 equivalent, per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,500,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $18,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(c)
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $16,900,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 or more; and (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of \0c$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
Page  12
the Guidelines shall apply 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services for the design of the center included in Part B(1) of the Project, and 
other services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for Part B(2)(c) of the Project which are estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
Page  13
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01(b) 
of this Agreement. 
A.
Project Oversight
In order to ensure the proper implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall 
at all times maintain the CPMO with terms of reference, staffing and other resources 
acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for the general oversight of Project 
implementation, financial management of the Project, review of proposed Subprojects, 
supervision of Subprojects under implementation and provision of technical and policy 
assistance to the Project Provinces in the carrying out of their Respective Parts of 
the Project. 
B.
Subprojects
In order to ensure the proper implementation of Part A of the Project, the 
Borrower shall, through the CPMO, take the following actions in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank:
1.
The Borrower shall:  
(a)
review the report on each investment project proposed to be included in 
the Project as a Subproject which is furnished to it pursuant to Part B.1 of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement, and prepare and furnish to the Bank a report 
summarizing the results of said review, together with its recommendations regarding 
said proposed Subproject; and 
(b)
thereafter, take or cause to be taken all measures necessary to implement 
such recommendations as shall have been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank 
regarding said proposed Subproject. 
2.
The Borrower shall monitor the implementation of each Subproject to be carried 
out in a Project Province and provide technical and policy guidance to said Project 
Province in the implementation of said Subproject. 
C.
Institutional Strengthening
1.
The Borrower shall:  
(a)
prepare under guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to the Bank 
not later than September 30, 1998, a time-bound action plan for the implementation of 
its institutional strengthening program under Part B(1) of the Project; 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan; and 
(c)
thereafter, promptly carry out said action plan, taking into account the 
views of the Bank on the matter.
2.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 1 of this Part C, the Borrower 
shall, under Part B(1) of the Project, develop its management information system in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and ensure that said system shall 
Page  14
be:  
(i)
introduced within the CPMO and each PPMO not later than December 
31, 1999; and 
(ii)
extended to the county level within each Project Province not 
later than June 
30, 2000. 
D.
Annual Implementation Plans 
1.
The Borrower shall promptly review the annual implementation plans furnished to 
it by the Project Provinces each calendar year pursuant to Part D of the Schedule to 
the Project Agreement, and on the basis of said review, prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than November 30 
in said calendar year, a summary of said plans, together with any revisions proposed 
by the Borrower thereto. 
2.
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower and the Project Provinces on said plans and proposed revisions, and 
thereafter, take all measures (including the provision of funds) necessary to ensure 
the prompt implementation of said plans, taking into account the views of the Bank on 
the matter.
E.
Supervision, Monitoring and Reporting 
1.
Supervision
The Borrower shall, through the CPMO, supervise the overall implementation of 
Subprojects in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall:
(a) 
prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, not later than November 30 in each calendar year, a proposed 
supervision plan for the following calendar year, consolidating the supervision plans 
furnished to it by the Project Provinces pursuant to Part E.1 of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement; and thereafter, promptly carry out said supervision plan, in 
conjunction with the Project Provinces, during the following calendar year, taking 
into account the views of the Bank on the matter; and 
(b) 
prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than three months following each supervision, a 
report summarizing the results of the Borrower’s supervision activities and 
consolidating the supervision reports furnished to it by the Project Provinces 
pursuant to Part E.1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
2.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable 
to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project, and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof.  
(b)
The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank, the following reports: (i)
semi-annual reports, not 
later than March 31 and September 30 in each calendar year, summarizing the physical 
and financial progress of the Project in respect of the preceding calendar semester, 
consolidating the semi-annual reports furnished to it by the Project Provinces 
pursuant to Part E.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and to 
further the objectives thereof during the then current calendar semester; (ii) annual 
reports, not later than March 31 in each calendar year, summarizing the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant to this Part E.2 in 
respect of the preceding calendar year, consolidating the annual reports furnished by 
the Project Provinces pursuant to Part E.2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and to further the objectives thereof during the then current calendar year; 
and (iii) a mid-term report, not later than December 31, 2000, summarizing the results 
Page  15
of the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant to this Part 
E.2 from the inception of the Project, consolidating the mid-term reports furnished to 
it by the Project Provinces pursuant to Part E.2 of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and to further the objectives thereof.
(c)
After furnishing each said report, the Borrower shall review the same 
with the Bank, and thereafter, promptly take all measures in relation thereto as shall 
have been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4);  
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$30,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $20,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $60,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Page  16
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Section 
2.02(a) of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
