Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4354 CHA
Project Agreement
(Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ANHUI PROVINCE HEBEI PROVINCE HENAN PROVINCE JIANGSU PROVINCE
 and 
SHANDONG PROVINCE
Dated July 31 , 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4354 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ANHUI PROVINCE, HEBEI PROVINCE, HENAN PROVINCE, JIANGSU 
PROVINCE and SHANDONG PROVINCE (collectively, the Project Provinces, and individually, 
a Project Province).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an 
amount equal to three hundred million Dollars ($300,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Project 
Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Project Provinces, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth. 
Page  2
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project;
Section 2.01. (a) Each Project Province declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
and environmental practices, and in accordance with programmatic guidelines acceptable 
to the Bank, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01(a) of this 
Agreement, and except as the Bank and the concerned Project Province shall otherwise 
agree, each Project Province shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the 
Loan Agreement.
(b)
Without limitation upon the foregoing, all pesticides and other farm 
chemicals required for the Project shall be selected exclusively from a list of 
chemicals approved by the Bank and shall be used, handled and stored in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Bank.
Section 2.03. (a) Each Project Province shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of its Respective Part of the 
Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, each Project Province shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, a plan 
for the 
future operation of its Respective Part of the 
Project, and furnish the same 
to the Borrower, for 
consolidation pursuant to Section 3.04 of the Loan 
Agreement, not later than three months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and said Project 
Province; and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
said Project 
Province on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Each Project Province shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of its Respective Part of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Each Project Province shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its Respective Part of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by 
said Project Province of its obligations under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each Project Province shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the carrying out of 
its Respective Part of the Project.
Page  3
(b)
Each Project Province shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing standards 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Bank may, from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the Project 
Provinces thereunder shall terminate on date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the Project 
Provinces thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For ANHUI PROVINCE:
Anhui Provincial Office for Comprehensive Agricultural Development
Anhui Financial Bureau
No. 238 Fu Nan Road
Hefei  230061
Anhui Province
People’s Republic of China
For HEBEI PROVINCE:
Hebei Provincial Office for Comprehensive Agricultural Development
Page  4
No. 10 Weiming Street
Shijiazhuang City  050053
Hebei Province
People’s Republic of China
For HENAN PROVINCE:
Henan Provincial Office for Comprehensive Agricultural Development
No. 2 Building, Zhengsan Street
Jinshui District
Zhengzhou City  450003
Henan Province
People’s Republic of China
For JIANGSU PROVINCE:
Jiangsu Provincial Office for Comprehensive Agricultural Development
No. 254 Zhongshan North Road
Nanjing  210003
Jiangsu Province
People’s Republic of China
For SHANDONG PROVINCE:
Shandong Provincial Office for Comprehensive Agricultural Development
No. 1 Shengfuqian Street
Jinan  250011
Shandong Province
People’s Republic of China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of any Project 
Province, may be taken or executed by its Vice Governor responsible for agriculture or 
by such other person or persons as said Project Province shall designate in writing, 
and said Project Province shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
 AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jane Loos
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
ANHUI PROVINCE
HEBEI PROVINCE
HENAN PROVINCE
JIANGSU PROVINCE
SHANDONG PROVINCE
By /s/ Liu Xiaoming
Page  5
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01(b) 
of this Agreement. 
A.
Project Management
In order to ensure the proper implementation of its Respective Part of the 
Project, each Project Province shall take the following actions.
1.
Said Project Province shall at all times maintain, with terms of reference, 
staff composition and other resources acceptable to the Bank:
(a)
its PPMO, which shall include senior-level representatives from its Water 
Resources Bureau, its Agriculture Bureau and its Forestry Bureau, to be responsible, 
inter alia, for the appraisal and supervision of each Subproject under its Respective 
Part of the Project, for the implementation of the activities under Part B of the 
Project that are included in its Respective Part of the Project, and for the provision 
of technical assistance to its agencies responsible for implementation of its 
Respective Part of the Project; and
(b)
a group of scientific and technical experts to be responsible for 
providing advice to its PPMO on technical matters relating to the Project and for 
assisting in the evaluation of technical aspects of Subprojects and in the preparation 
of reports to be prepared by said Project Province pursuant to Part E.2 of this 
Schedule.
2.
Said Project Province shall ensure that its PPMO shall be fully staffed in 
accordance with the provisions of section 1 of this Part, not later than September 30, 
1998.
B.
Subprojects
1.
Preparation; Eligibility
Each Project Province shall, in accordance with programmatic guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank:  prepare each investment project under Part A of the Project 
proposed to be included in its Respective Part of the Project as a Subproject; and 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower a report (including, an environmental management 
plan, and, if applicable, a resettlement plan) in respect of said proposed Subproject, 
for the Borrower’s review pursuant to Part B.1 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.  
Each such proposed Subproject shall qualify as a Subproject eligible for financing out 
of the proceeds of the Loan only if and to the extent said Project Province shall have 
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank, on the basis of said 
report, that the conditions set forth below in this Section 1 have been met and the 
Bank shall have communicated to the Borrower its approval of said Subproject.
(a)
The proposed Subproject is technically feasible and economically and 
financially viable and is designed to earn an economic rate of return of not less than 
12%, as determined, in the case of a proposed Subproject for the establishment of a 
fertilizer or seed processing facility, on the basis of a feasibility study and 
business plan for said facility carried out in accordance with guidelines acceptable 
to the Bank.
(b)
The proposed Subproject is in compliance with environmental standards 
acceptable to the Bank, and with all applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower 
relating to health, safety and environmental protection.
(c)
The proposed Subproject is designed to avoid or minimize any involuntary 
resettlement of persons or loss of their income or productive capacity, but if the 
proposed Subproject would nevertheless require any acquisition of land that would 
involve any such resettlement or loss, a resettlement action plan for said persons has 
been developed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 of this Part B.
Page  6
(d)
In the case of a proposed Subproject in Shandong requiring water supplied 
from the Yellow River, the total amount of such water required for said proposed 
Subproject would not involve any increase in the amount of water currently diverted by 
Shandong from said river.
(e)
In the case of a Subproject involving groundwater extraction, said 
project has been designed such that:  
(i)
no wells shall be dug under said project and no such extraction 
shall occur in 
areas where the estimated long-term rate of 
groundwater recharge would be less 
than the estimated 
long-term rate of extraction of such water if said project 
were 
located in such area; and 
(ii)
the depth of any well constructed under said project shall not 
exceed 50 
meters.
(f)
In the case of a proposed Subproject dependent on one or more Large Dams, 
arrangements to ensure the safety of said Large Dams have been made in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 4 of this Part B.
(g)
In the case of a proposed township-level Subproject under Part A(2) of 
the Project involving on-farm development, said proposed Subproject is estimated to be 
completed within a period of not more than two years. 
2.
Water Charges
(a)
Each Project Province declares its policy to recover the recurrent costs 
of operation and maintenance and a portion of the capital costs of the irrigation 
facilities, drainage systems and water supply facilities in its territory from users 
of the water delivered through said facilities.  In furtherance of said policy, each 
Project Province shall, promptly upon completion of the facilities which are 
constructed or upgraded under its Respective Part of the Project, establish and ensure 
the collection from the users of water delivered through said facilities, of water 
charges sufficient to cover: (i) the operation and maintenance costs of said 
facilities as they are incurred; and (ii) debt repayment and debt service obligations 
incurred by said Project Province pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of the Loan Agreement in 
respect of said facilities, as they become due and payable.
(b)
To that end, each Project Province shall prepare, on the basis of 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than September 
30, 1999, the proposed schedule of said water charges and timetable for its 
establishment, together with any information pertaining thereto that the Bank may 
reasonably request, and thereafter promptly take all measures required on its part to 
introduce such schedule according to said timetable, taking into account the views of 
the Bank on the matter.
(c)
Each Project Province shall review said water charges, at regular 
intervals not exceeding 3 years each, and adjust said charges as necessary so as to 
continue to give effect to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 2.
(d)
Each Project Province shall maintain a separate accounting for funds 
collected within its jurisdiction pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Section 2 and cause all said funds to be used exclusively for the 
purposes specified in said paragraph (a).
3.
Environmental Management and Monitoring
(a)
Each Project Province shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project 
in accordance with an environmental management program acceptable to the Bank.
(b)
Hebei, Henan and Shandong shall each maintain policies and procedures 
adequate to enable it to monitor and control, in accordance with guidelines acceptable 
to the Bank, groundwater extraction and groundwater levels within its territory, so as 
to ensure the sustainability of its groundwater supply.
Page  7
(c)
Each Project Province shall monitor the soil fertility of land included 
in each of its Subprojects in accordance with a monitoring plan acceptable to the 
Bank. 
4.
Dam Safety
In order to ensure the safety of each Large Dam, the Project Provinces shall 
undertake the following actions in accordance with sound engineering practices and on 
the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank.
(a)
Anhui, Jiangsu and Shandong shall each:
(i)
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than December 31, 1998, 
a program of 
remedial works on the following Large Dam(s) (the 
Designated Dams), together 
with an implementation plan to 
ensure the completion of said remedial works 
not later than 
December 31, 2002: (A) Fuzhiling and Longhekou Dams, in the 
case of Anhui; (B) Xiaotanshan Dam in the case of Jiangsu; and (C) Mahe Dam in 
the case of Shandong; 
(ii)
thereafter promptly implement said program in accordance with said 
implementation plan, taking into account the 
views of the Bank on the matter; 
and
(iii)
throughout the period of implementation of said remedial works:  
(A) undertake 
annual reviews of the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of said remedial 
works; (B) prepare and furnish to 
the Bank, promptly upon the completion of 
each said review, a 
report of the results of said review, together with any 
recommendations to ensure the continued proper implementation of said works; 
and (C) thereafter, promptly implement said recommendations, taking into 
account the views of the Bank on the matter.
(b)
Prior to the commencement of any works under any Subproject which is 
served or affected by a Large Dam (other than a Designated Dam), the Project Province 
in which said dam is located shall:
(i)
undertake an inspection and comprehensive safety evaluation of 
said Large Dam; 
(ii)
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report on said evaluation, 
together with any 
recommendations indicated by said evaluation 
in order to ensure the safety of 
said dam and the safety of 
downstream life, property and activities; and
(iii)
promptly implement said recommendations, taking into account the 
comments of 
the Bank on the matter.
(c)
Each Project Province shall:  
(i)
undertake and complete, not later than December 31, 2002, an 
additional 
inspection and comprehensive safety evaluation 
of each Large Dam located in 
its territory; 
(ii)
promptly upon completion of each said inspection and evaluation, 
prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report on said evaluation, 
together with any 
recommendations indicated by said 
evaluation in order to ensure the safety of 
said Large Dam and 
the safety of downstream life, property and activities; and 
(iii)
promptly implement said recommendations, taking into account the 
views of the 
Bank on the matter.
(d)
In order to assist it in undertaking the comprehensive safety evaluations 
referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, each Project Province shall 
employ one or more independent experts (or, if the Bank shall so request, a panel of 
independent experts), whose terms of reference, qualifications, and experience shall 
Page  8
be acceptable to the Bank.
(e)
Each Project Province shall ensure that each Large Dam within its 
territory shall be operated and maintained in accordance with sound engineering 
practices.  To that end, each Project Province shall:  (i) prepare, under guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, not later than December 31, 2002, an 
emergency preparedness plan for each Large Dam within its territory; (ii) afford the 
Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with said Project Province on said 
plan; and (iii) thereafter, promptly adopt said plan, taking into account the views of 
the Bank on the matter. 
5.
Resettlement
If any Subproject included in a Project Province’s Respective Part of the 
Project would involve the involuntary resettlement of persons, said Project Province 
shall ensure that all such persons shall be resettled prior to the implementation of 
such Subproject in accordance with a resettlement plan which:  
(a)
shall have been designed on the basis of policies, planning principles, 
institutional arrangements and design criteria acceptable to the Bank, so as to 
improve the living standards and production levels of said persons; and 
(b)
shall have been approved by the Bank.
C.
Institutional Development
1.
SIDD Development
(a)
Under Part B(2)(a) of the Project, each Project Province shall:
(i)
carry out a pilot program, acceptable to the Bank, for the 
establishment, not 
later than September 30, 1998 and operation in its 
territory of SIDDs in 
accordance with the arrangements set 
forth in paragraphs (b) through (f) of 
this Section; and
(ii)
prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank and 
furnish to 
the Bank not later than December 31, 1998, a program 
for the further 
development of SIDDs within its 
territory, said program to include 
implementation plans and institutional arrangements for the establishment of 
such SIDDs, and a program for the redeployment of provincial and local 
staff 
responsible for water resource management; and thereafter, 
promptly implement 
said program, taking into account the views of 
the Bank on the matter.
(b)
Each SIDD established within a Project Province pursuant to subparagraph 
(a)(i) of this Section shall include:  
(i)
at least (A) one WSC established pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Company Law, to be 
responsible for operating and maintaining a 
defined water supply system within 
said province’s territory, 
and at least 40% of whose directors shall comprise 
representatives of the users of the water supplied through said system and (B) 
one WUA to be responsible for operating and maintaining tertiary canals 
served 
by the system within said WSC’s responsibility and 
for operating and 
maintaining onfarm water supply systems 
which serve its members, and whose 
members shall 
comprise all users of water supplied through said onfarm 
systems; and 
(ii)
at least one WUA in each prefecture and municipality within said 
province 
selected in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, each to be 
responsible for 
operating and maintaining the tertiary canals and onfarm water 
supply systems which serve its members, and whose members shall comprise all 
users of water supplied through said systems.
Page  9
(c)
The rights and obligations of each WSC established within a Project 
Province shall be defined and set forth in a water system operation and maintenance 
contract, prepared in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, to be entered 
into between said province, through its local administration, and said WSC upon the 
establishment of said WSC, said contract to: (i) define the facilities to be 
transferred to said WSC and which said WSC shall be responsible to operate and 
maintain; (ii) set forth the respective responsibilities of said Project Province and 
said WSC, and the sources and levels of funds, staffing and other resources to be 
provided to said WSC to enable it to carry out said responsibilities; and (iii) 
authorize and empower said WSC to collect the water charges referred to in Section 2 
of Part B of this Schedule from the WUAs and other users which use water delivered 
through said facilities in accordance with the terms of water users contracts to be 
entered into between said WSC and said users.
(d)
The rights and obligations of each WUA established within a Project 
Province shall be defined and set forth in a water users contract prepared in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, to be entered into between said WUA 
and the WSC or other agency responsible for operating and maintaining the facilities 
through which water used by said WUA is delivered, upon the establishment of said WUA, 
said contract to: (i) define the facilities which said WUA shall be responsible to 
operate and maintain; (ii) set forth the respective responsibilities of said WSC or 
agency (as the case may be) and WUA, and the sources and levels of funds to be 
provided to said WUA to enable it to carry out said responsibilities; and (iii) 
authorize and empower said WUA to collect the water charges referred to in Section 2 
of Part B of this Schedule from its members who use water delivered through said 
facilities.
(e)
Each Project Province shall ensure that the right of local governments to 
utilize customary labor contributions in respect of irrigation and drainage 
responsibilities assumed by each WSC and WUA established in a SIDD operating within 
its territory, shall be assigned to said WSC and WUA under arrangements acceptable to 
the Bank, promptly upon their establishment.
(f)
Each Project Province shall provide technical and financial assistance to 
each WSC and each WUA established in a SIDD operating within its territory, under 
guidelines and in accordance with a schedule acceptable to the Bank, such assistance 
to be designed to enable said entities properly to carry out their respective 
responsibilities. 
2.
Management Information System
Under Part B(2) of the Project, each Project Province shall:  (a) take all 
measures required on its part to ensure that the management information system 
developed by the CPMO pursuant to Part C.2 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement shall 
be introduced within its PPMO and linked to the CPMO, not later than December 31, 
1999; (b) operate said system in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank; 
and (c) ensure that said system shall be extended to, and be fully operational in, 
each of its counties not later than June 30, 2000.
D.
Annual Implementation Plans
Each Project Province shall:
1.
prepare, in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Borrower not later than November 1 in each calendar year, for summarizing and 
forwarding to the Bank pursuant to Part D of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, a 
proposed implementation plan for the carrying out of its Respective Part of the 
Project during the following calendar year, said plan: (a) to describe, inter alia, 
the activities proposed to be carried out during said period in respect of the 
following:  construction and maintenance, technical assistance, adaptive research, 
extension and training, integrated pest management, and environmental management; and 
(b) to be accompanied by a financing plan therefor and evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank, that funds in adequate amounts are available for the payment of expenditures to 
be incurred in the carrying out of said Respective Part of the Project during said 
period; and
2.
thereafter, carry out its Respective Part of the Project during said following 
Page  10
calendar year in accordance with such implementation plan as shall have approved by 
the Borrower and the Bank.
E.
Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Reporting
1.
Supervision
Each Project Province shall supervise the implementation of the Subprojects 
carried out within its territory in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank.  
To this end, each Project Province shall:  (a) prepare, in accordance with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Borrower, not later than November 
1 in each calendar year, for forwarding to the Bank pursuant to Part E.1 of Schedule 5 
to the Loan Agreement, a proposed supervision plan for the following calendar year; 
and thereafter, promptly carry out said supervision plan during the following calendar 
year, taking into account the views of the Bank on the matter; and (b) prepare, in 
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Borrower 
not later than 3 months following each supervision, for forwarding to the Bank, a 
report summarizing the results of said supervision.
2.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
(a)
Each Project Province shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project 
(including implementation of its Environmental Management Plan) and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof.
(b)
Each Project Province shall prepare, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Borrower for consolidation and forwarding 
to Bank pursuant to Part E.2 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the following 
reports:
(i)
semi-annual reports, not later than March 15 and September 15 in 
each calendar 
year:  (A) summarizing: (1) the physical and 
financial progress of its 
Respective Part of the Project in 
respect of the preceding calendar semester; 
and (2) in the case 
of Jiangsu, the physical progress of the construction of 
the 
Huaiyin Pumping Station No. 2 referred to in Part F of this Schedule; and 
(B) setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out 
of its Respective Part of the Project and to further the 
objectives thereof 
during the then current calendar semester;
(ii)
an annual report, not later than March 15 in each calendar year:  
(A) 
summarizing: (1) the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities 
carried out by it pursuant to 
this Section 2 in respect of the preceding 
calendar 
year; and (2) in the case of each of Hebei, Henan and Shandong, the 
results of the monitoring activities carried out by it pursuant to Part B.3(b) 
of this Schedule with respect to groundwater extraction and water 
tables 
within its territory; (B) setting forth 
technical and scientific 
recommendations for its 
Respective Part of the Project; and (C) setting out 
the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of its 
Respective Part of the Project and to further the objectives thereof during 
the then current calendar year; and 
(iii)
a mid-term report, not later than December 1, 2000, summarizing 
the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities 
carried out by it pursuant to this 
Section 2 from the 
inception of its Respective Part of the Project, and 
setting out the status of its Respective Part of the Project, any problems 
encountered during its implementation, the costs of 
implementation, and the 
measures recommended to ensure its 
efficient completion and to further its 
objectives.
(c)
After furnishing each said report, each Project Province shall review the 
same with the Bank, and thereafter, promptly take all measures in relation thereto as 
Page  11
shall have been agreed between the Bank and said Project Province.
F.
Jiangsu Province
In order to ensure the achievement of the objectives of its Respective Part of 
the Project, Jiangsu shall:  (1) construct its Huaiyin Pumping Station No. 2 in 
Huaiyin City with a capacity of at least 100 cubic meter per second; (2) carry out 
said construction with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
engineering, and environmental practices; and (3) ensure that said station shall be 
completed and commissioned not later than December 31, 2002.
