Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Rqort No. P-3905-cH
REPOt D Xeo
OF TE
NPIr OF TM
IrElUUlMOVL BANK FOR                   mmECOSTRUllON  D  D ELOPMET
TO UK
EXECUTIVE DIRECIORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOA
Ig ANm AmOuNr EQUVALENT To US$56.0 NaLLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHIE
FOR AN
AGRIcuLTOmR, SERVICES ANM CREDI PROJECr
November 27, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used br recpients only in the perfonnsmne of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



Currency Unit: Chilean Peso (Ch$)
Calendar 1983
Currency Unit           Average            September 30, 1984
US$1                 Ch$78.788               Ch$115.08
Ch$l                usS 0.013               US$ 0.0087
Ci$1,000             US$12.692               US$ 8.69
FISCAL TEAR
January 1 to December 31
BECH        -  Banco del Estado de Chile
(State Bank of Chile)
CONAF       - Corporacion Nacional de Forestacion
(National Forestry Institute)
CPI         -  Consumer Price Index
ICB         -  International Competitive Bidding
IDB         -  Inter-American Development Bank
IHE         -  Irrigated Hectare Equivalent
INDAP       -  Instituto Nacional de Desarrollo Agropecuario
(National Agricultural Development Institute)
INIA        -  Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agriculturales
(Agricultural Research Institute)
MINAG       - Ministerio de Agricultura
(Ministry of Agriculture)
ODEPA       -  Oficina de Planificacion Agricola
(Agricultural Planning Office)
ODEPLAN     -  Oficina de Planificacion Nacional
(National Planning Office)
SAG         -  Servicio Agricola y Ganadero
(Agricultural and Livestock Service)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC    
M2IULTRALSEKVIM AND C3EDI PIO3ECT
_ AN _    1C S=A R
Borrinrl:           Republic of Chile
Beneficiaries:      National Agricultural Development Institute (INDAP) and
participating commercial banks.
hiunut:             US$56.0 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:              Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Ters:    The Central Bank would onlend project funds in Pesos to
INDAP at an annual interest rate of 5.5 percent and to
commercial banks at an annual interest rate of 7.5
percent. Subloans made by INDAP would bear an annual
interest rate of 9 percent and by commercial banks an
annual interest rate of 10 percent. Interest payments by
participating financial institutions and beneficiaries
would be over outstanding loan balances adjusted by the
Chilean Consumer Price Index (CPI). The repayment terms
for subloans would be up to 18 months for short-term
credit, and up to 12 years, including a grace period of
up to 4 years, for on-farm and agroindustry investment
credit.
Objectives:         The project's main objective would be to (a) increase
agricultural output, especially of commodities for which
Chile enjoys a comparative advantage; and (b) help
small-scale farmers to increase their earnings, improve
their living conditions and develop their farms into
commercially viable production units. In addition,
INDAP's financial and operational position would be
strengthened.
This documnt has a zeaimd dubuin and may be usd by rdpins only in the pefonmnc of
_t_ offcal duties Its comets may not othemiue be diucmedI witout Wad Dank zitdhizt



-is-
Project
The project would provide investment credit for on-farm
development and agroindustry, and short-term credit to
small farmers. The project also Includes a comprehensive
technical assistance program associated with credit to
small-scale farmers, and assistance to INDAP for the
completion of an electronic data processing system for
portfolio management. INDAP would also be strengthened
by carrying out a plan for the recovery of portfolio
arrears.
Pro-ject
Beuefits:           The project is expected to have a signifieant impact on
increasing agricultural production, for import
substitution and exports, vith consequent foreign
exchange benefits. The small-scale farm group, which
accounts for about 40 percent of the best agricultural
land, but has limited access to modern technology and
institutional credit, would particularly benefit. The
project would also have a positive impact on agricultural
family labor currently unde euployed.
Project Risks:      Credit demand under the project would be dependent on
agricultural prices and profitability. During the
1981-1983 period, both international market conditions
and the local economic environment made agricultural
investment less attractive, and investment credit demand
decreased substantially. However, the Government has
recently adopted a number of measures to ensure an
adequate producer price for selected commodities. These,
combined with good prospects for profitable production of
export crops, create sectoral conditions in which project
risks are not excessive.



-iii-
estimsted Coats: 1v
Local    Foreign    Total
(US Milon Equivalent)
On-farm and Agroindustry
Developiust Investment
Small-scale Farmers                        20.3      8.7      29.0
Other                                      13.6       5.8       19.4
Short-term Lending                           44.4      36.3      80.7
Technical Assistance                         18.6       4.1       22.7
Base Cost                                    96.9      54.9      151.8
Price Contingencies
on Technical Assistance                       4.3       1.0        5.3
Total Project Costs                         101.2      55.9      157.1
-            -  
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                    -         0.1        0.1
Total Financing Required                    101.2      56.0      157.2
nmel-g - m-:
Government                                   56.0       -         56.0
Farmers and agroindustrialists               45.2       -         45.2
Bank                                          -        56.0       56.0
Total                      101.2       56.0     157.2
Istelated
Diabjrseuents:         Bank FY:            1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
(US$ M      ilions)
Annual               2.0   6.9  10.6  14.7  12.8   9.0
Cumulative           2.0   8.9  19.5  34.2  47.0  56.0
Rate of Return:        Not Applicable
1/ Includes US$23.4 million in taxes and duties.



-L~~I              PMXQA%=xm    i gnsLDm
RE  AMW                       m             GP    D
TO IUs EZKCDTIVM DIREMCORSA 0 A ErOPOSFD LON To
UK  EU C OF CI   M
AN    i         SEVICS AID CHEI N!J9Cr
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Chile for the equivalent of US$56.0 million, including a
capitalized front-end fee, to help finance an Agricultural Services and
Credit Project. The proposed loan would have a term of 15 years, including
3 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The Central Bank,
acting on the borrower's behalf, would onlend the loan proceeds in Chilean
Pesos to INDAP at 5.5 percent per annum, and to participating commercial
banks at 7.5 percent per annum, with principal amounts outstanding adjusted
by the Chilean Consumer Index (CPI). The interest rate on subloans made by
INDAP would be 9 percent per annum and by commercial banks would be 10
percent per annum, based on principal amounts outstanding adjusted by the
CPI. The repayment terms for sub-loans would be up to 18 months for
short-term credit, and up to 12 years including a grace period of up to four
years for on-farm and agro-industry investment credit.
PART I -UE ECONM1/
2.        An economic memorandum on Chile (Report No. 5099-CH) was circulated
to the Board on September 24, 1984. The following paragraphs are based on
the conclusions contained in that memorandum. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex I.
Evolation of the EconogM to the end of 1982
3.        In the four decades following the Great Depression, successive
Governments 3ought to reduce Chile's vulnerability to world market
fluctuations, accelerate economic development and achieve a more equitable
distribution of income. With the aim of reducing the country's dependency on
imports, these Governments intervened in the determination of prices, erected
high protective barriers against foreign competition, offered special tax and
other incentives to investment and entered directly into production and dis-
tribution activities while controlling the allocation of credit and foreign
exchange. During 1971-73, the Government, intervening heavily in the econo-
my, undertook a major agrarian reform, expropriated a large part of the pri-
vate industrial and mining sectors, and followed highly expansionary fiscal,
1/ The same as Part I of the President's Report for the Public Sector Housing
Project, to be presented to the Executive Directors on the same date as
this Loan.



monetary, and wage policies. By 1973, the Central Government deficit exceed-
ed one-fifth of GDP.   Stagnation, rapid inflation and balance of payments
problems became acute. In 1973, for example, inflation exceeded 500 percent
and net international reserves were negative.
4.        After 1973 the structure of the Chilean economy underwent pro-
nounced change. The new Government, which came to power in late-1973,
promoted private initiative and reduced the role of the State to one of mini-
nal involvement in the economic sphere.  The Central Government's budget de-
ficit was eliminated. All prices, including interest rates, were progres-
sively freed and most distortions to relative prices were removed. Foreign
investment was encouraged and trade barriers were virtually eliminated.
Major reforms were introduced in the tax structure, in the budgetary process
and in banking legislation. Finally, most of the enterprises taken over by
the previous Government were returned to the private sector. To reduce the
hyperinflation and respond to a major drop in copper prices, the Government
initially undertook a severe austerity program; strong fiscal revenue and
expenditure actions were implemented, the currency was massively devalued
and, after 1975, a crawling peg regime was adopted, which stimulated
export-led growth. A depression whlch developed in 1975, bottomed out during
the first quarter of 1976 and, with its first current account surplus in
twenty years, Chile was able to sgrvice its debt and increase substantially
its net official reserves.
5.        The economy responded well to the reforms and between 1976-1980
real economic growth averaged 8.5 percent per year. By 1977, GDP in real
terms had returned to 1971-1972 levels and by 1980 annual inflation was
reduced to 30 percent. The balance of payments position improved markedly;
the value of agricultural and manufactured exports grew more than sevenfold
between 1973 and 1978. Copper revenues - traditionally accounting for over
80 percent of Chile's export receipts - had been reduced to half of total
export earnings. Net foreign reserves during the 1973-78 period averaged
over US$1.5 billion. By 1978, real wages and salaries had recovered to their
1970 levels and rose further as worker productivity increased. The financial
position of both the Government and most of the remaining State enterprises
improved dramatically. Not only did the public sector run an overall surplus
in the later 1970s, but the efficiency of the State enterprises improved
greatly.
6.        Chile's accelerated growth during the 1976-80 period was
accompanied by meager net employment generation owing to a combination of
more efficient labor use in both private and public sectors and substantial
worker displacement as relative prices shifted. Consequently, the
unemployment rate dropped only slowly, to eight percent by 1981. The
Government responded to the needs of the unemployed with a series of
measures: an emergency employment program which employed seven percent of
the workforce during the worst of the 1975/76 downturn and represented about
five percent of Government expenditures; a program of wage subsidies; reform
of unemployment insurance; and an expanded training program.



- 3 -
7.        Rhile the Government was eager to reduce the role of the State in
both production and pricing, it vas equally determined to improve the quality
of, and access to, social services to the poor. Previous income distribution
policies and programs - such as price controls, public housing, cheap
credit, direct subsidies, tax exemptions end oroadly-based social expenditure
programs -  not only had had perverse growth effects, but often had been of
equal or, in some cases, greater benefit to the urban middle class than to
the poor. From the mid-seventies on, although the Government spent less on
the social sectors than predecessor governments (public social outlays only
reached 1972 levels in real per capita terms in 1980), it carefully targeted
its spending on the extreme poor.
8.        Many of the Government's approaches were successful; some have been
innovative. Treatment and rehabilitation centers for severely undernourished
children and a preschool nursery program for the poor were especially
promising approaches in nutrition. Fortified and protein-enriched milk
distribution programs for infants, preschool children and pregnant and
nursing mothers reached about 80 percent of children under five. Nursery
schools integrating nutrition, medical care, and education for the most
disadvantaged preschool children have been expanded rapidly. One important
result of the health program is that the infant mortality rate plummeted over
the past dozen years. Education was also reformed. University fees were
raised - with subsidies provided for poorer students. Primary and secondary
education, as well as many health services and some infrastructure mainten-
ance, is now being decentralized to provincial and municipal control. -
9.        After 1980, economic conditions began to change. This was caused
by a major shift in macroeconomic policy and the later world recession. On
July 1, 1979 the Government ended its pre-announced crawling peg policy and
fixed the Chilean Peso at Ch$39:US$1. This, combined with greatly lessened
restrictions on external capital flows and public sector surpluses, was ex-
pected to adjust domestic inflation quickly to international levels. The
Government's goal was not only to end Chile's propensity for high inflation,
but also to establish a monetary policy virtually independent of Government
intervention. Unfortunately, the time lag in the adjustment of domestic
inflation rates, combined with the subsequent appreciation of the U.S. dollar
and 1981-83 world recession, produced an unsustainable boom followed by a
pronounced economic contraction.
10.       Between June 1979 and January 1981, domestic inflation was 60 per-
cent; U.S. inflation was only about 20 percent. The variation in nominal
peso and dollar interest rates was even more extreme; as a result, the
Chilean private sector borrowed heavily abroad.  Between end-1979 and
end-1981, Chile's medium-and long-term private external debt almost tripled
to US$8.1 billion, while the public external debt fell slightly.   As the
peso appreciated, private expenditures increased; much of this was spent on
imported consumer goods.
11.       The appreciation of the peso -  combined with the growing world re-
cession - finally had an overwhelming effect as Chile's export earnings and
inflows of foreign savings both dropped. By the end of 1981, Chile's economy
entered a recession. The lag in adjusting Chile's foreign exchange policy



-4-
led the economy from recession into depression. In 1982 GDP fell 14.3 per-
cent. Real value-added in construction, which had boomed in 1980/81, dropped
almost 22 percent; real value-added in commerce and transport decreased by 15
percent and 10 percent, respectively. Manufacturing real value-added de-
clined by 22 percent. Real fixed investment fell almost 37 percent, a drop
which was all the more discouraging because the country had only begun to im-
prove its infrastructure, which had deteriorated greatly during the 1970's.
12.      As the economy entered the depression, unemployment soared to 19
percent in 1982. The financial situation of many firms and banks deterior-
ated. As early as November 1981, the Government had to intervene to assume
responsibility for day-to-day management of a few insolvent banks, but the
situation worsened considerably in 1982, with a series of bankruptcies. The
crisis finally forced the Government to devalue in June 1982. In early
August, as the situation worsened, the peso was floated, then devalued
further. Following this devaluation, the Central Bank applied restrictions
on foreign exchange transactions in conjunction with a crawling peg policy to
stimulate exports.
Economic D oents in 1983-1984
13.       The IMF, agreed in early January 1983 to an SDR 795 million Stand-
by cum Compensatory Financing Facility, in support of the Government's sta-
bilization efforts. One week later a financial crisis was triggered by mas-
sive banking insolvencies and a huge capital outflow. Consequently, the
Government had to both take over and provide many banks with immediate
liquidity to avoid collapse of the financial system. Part of the liquidity
came from taxes introduced in early 1983, mostly on imports; part, however,
was created by a surge of Ch$100 billion in the money supply.
14.       Because Chile was unable to meet the March targets of its 1983 IMF
program, an IMF "shadow program' - by which the original targets could be
met by September -- was drawn up in March. By end-July, an agreement was
reached with foreign banks, providing Chile with: (i) rescheduling of US$2.1
billion medium-term principal payments due in 1983 and 1984; (ii) re-
scheduling of US$1.3 billion short-term debt; and (iii) US$1.3 billion in new
medium-term credits.
15.       Because of its successful deflationary policies, Chile was able to
comply with its September 1983 IMF targets; a feat that reflects favorably on
the country's determination to meet its external obligations. A US$900 mil-
lion trade surplus, a reduction in the rate of inflation to 23 -ercent, and a
current account deficit of only US$1 billion were achieved. This improve-
ment, combined with the restructuring of the external debt, resulted in a
small increase in gross reserves which by December 1983 amounted to just over
four months of imports. External balance, nowever, was achieved at the cost
of a decline in domestic expenditure for a second year. As 1983 concluded,
real GDP was down an additional two percent. The unemployment rate had
dropped to 16 percent, but only because the emergency employment programs
were employing ten percent of the work force. Real gross fixed investment
had dropped 15 percent from its already depressed 1982 level, and real pri-
vate consumption was down seven percent.



-5-
16.       The depression bottomed out during the last quarte- of 1983.  First
semester results for 1984 indicate that the recovery is underway. Industrial
output was up 14 percent compared to the same period for 1983, and the 1984
harvest is estimated to be 15 percent higher than that of 1983. Public ex-
penditures are being redirected towards more labor-intensive activities.
Since Chile's poor are now mostly the unemployed, the Government is directing
its efforts at poverty alleviation towards job generation.  Corporate taxes
were reformed to stimulate investment and general financing relief is being
provided by the Central Bank through schemes to reschedule many internal
debts.  Major reforms in the structure of large business groups, and the
financial system are now underway. High real interest rates (currently as
high as 10 percent annually) have persisted over the last decade for reasons
that remain unclear. To deal with this problem, many internal debt restruc-
turing programs include interest rates slightly below the market rates but
still positive in real terms.
Prospects
17.       In spite of these actions, the Chilean recovery remains precar-
ious. First, business confidence in Government policies remains fragile in
part because of the frequent turnover in the economic teams. Second, while
major programs to restructure domestic debts are being implemented, the fate
of the financial system - and many firms - remain somewhat uncertain. The
cost of these programs - estimated at US$2.5 billion over 15 years - might
escalate, greatly affecting economic growth, should further indiscriminate
extensions to debtors be granted as grace periods expire. Third, Chile's
growth is severely constrained by foreign exchange limitations. Copper ac-
counts for half export receipts, and prices are now lower in real terms than
in any year since the 1930s. They are not expected to rise much in the next
few years. Furthermore, US and LIBOR interest rates - to which three-
quarters of Chile's external debt is tied - remain high. Indeed, since
Chile's 1984 IMF program was drawn up, copper prices have been ten cents/lb.
below the initial projected price and international interest rates have in-
creased. To cope with these developments, the Government devalued the peso
by 23 percent on September 18, 1984 and continues to apply a crawling peg ex-
change rate system.
18.       Chile's external debt was about 80 percent of its 1983 GDP; inter-
est payments on it were over 40 percent of its exports. In order to resume
even a moderate three percent rate of GDP growth over the medium term, Chile
will not only need to increase domestic savings and accelerate exports, it
will also need a rnet inflow of capital of a'out US$1 billion yearly. So far,
through a determined effort, Chile has complied with its IMF targets. Its
exchange rate policy has led to a strong volume expansion of non-mineral ex-
ports, but prices remain depressed. Moreover, what limited public investment
is taking place is being redirected to employment-intensive and export-pro-
motion activities. Private sector incentives are also increasingly employ-
ment-oriented. A new, three-year program to guide government investment has
been approved. Nevertheless, there clearly remains uncertainty over whether
Chile, like many other Latin America countries, will be able to fully service



-6-
its debt in the next few years.  Chile's private creditors will need to
provide new resources, and net official lending will also need to be greatly
increased if Chile's economy is to recover growth and full creditworthiness.
Because Chile has addressed its short-term problems with rigor and is
designing policies to ameliorate its longer-term constraints, we consider it
creditworthy for this loan.
PART II - a4K GsOUP OPEWR0NS I= 011132/
19.       Chile became the Bank's first borrower among developing countries
in 1948 when the Bank made its first loan to the country. By September 30,
1984 the Bank had made 29 loans to Chile, amounting to US$564.6 million (net
of cancellations) of which four were not yet fully disbursed.   IDA had also
extended a US$22.9 million credit to the country for a road project. IFC
gross commitments in Chile as of the same date stood at US$56.4 million.
Annex II contains a summary Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits and IFC
Investments as at September 30, 1984.
20.       Of total Bank and IDA lending to Chile, 33 percent has been for
roads, 28 percent for power, 17 percent for agriculture (including irriga-
tion), 9 percent for mining, 6 percent for water supply, and the balance (7
percent) for industry, education and technical assistance.
21.       Historically, the volume of Bank lending to Chile has fluctuated
substantially in accordance, inter alia, with the country's econonic perform-
ance and the availability of suitable projects. Between 1971 and 1973, the
Bank did not lend to Chile because of the severe deterioration in economic
and financial management. On the basis of negotiations substantially com-
pleted with the Allende Government, the Bank cautiously resumed lending in
1974. In the FY75-77 period, the Bank made four loans totalling US$107.8
million to help finance projects in the agriculture, copper mining and power
sectors. The Bank did not lend to Chile in FY78-79, but in FY80 it approved
a US$38 million loan for a water supply project and, in FY81, two loans in
the amounts of US$36 million and US$42 million for a second agricultural
credit project and a highway reconstruction project, respectively. During
FY82-84, only one Bank loan, a US$128 million FY83 second highway -econstruc-
tion loan, was made to the country.
22.       Execution of Bank-financed projects in Chile has, with some excep-
tions, been satisfactory. The loan for the copper sector approved in FY76
experienced starting delays, but the difficulties have been overcome and the
loan is now fully disbursed. The sixth power loan (US$35.0 million) approved
in FY77 was closed in FY82 following cancellation of US$23.0 million
resulting from disagreement between the Bank and the former Chilean economic
team over power tariff policies. Disbursement of Bank loans to Chile reached
US$32.6 million in FY82. Then in FY83, with Chile's cu-rent depression at
its nadir, disbursements declined to US$22.3 million. This was in large
measure because of the lifting of restrictions on foreign borrowings during
the previous two years, as well as the fact that farmers' debt burden and
2/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the Public
Sector Housing Project, to be presented to the Executive Directors on the
same date as this Loan.



-7-
investment uncertainty in the agricultural sector slowed down disbursements
of the FY81 agricultural credit project. Recent modifications to this pro-
ject, designed to overcome these problems, are already bearing fruit.   Dis-
bursements on Bank loans in FY84 reached their highest historical level of
US$34.5 million.
23.       The Bank's lending strategy in the short-term will be to support a
sound program of Government policies that will provide timely reactivation of
the economy and expansion of opportunities for productive employment. In
the mediuw- and longer-term, the Bank's strategy will be threefold. First,
we hope to assist the Government in its efforts to strengthen economic man-
agement; second, to support the improvement of national infrastructure to
provide a solid base for sustained growth and development; and third, to sup-
port export promotion and efficient import substitution.
24.       The Bank's lending program for the next 12 to 18 months will in-
clude, in addition to the proposed Agricultural Services and Credit loan, a
public sector management technical assistance operation, and loans to help
finance new projects in water supply and sewerage. transportation, as well as
in industrial rehabilitation/export development and a Public Sector Housing
Project.
25.       Although Chile's debt situation is currently limiting cofinancing
opportunities in the country, the responsible way in which the Authorities
are handling the country's external obligations augurs well for future opera-
tions in which the Bank could co-lend with commercial banks. International
commercial banks are considering providing Chile with new funds to tide the
country through the next year, but have yet to resume lending on a voluntary
basis. Opportunities for IBRD-IDB cofinancing are also being explored. IDB
has a sizeable program in Chile; it is focusing primarily on agriculture,
industry, power, and transportation - sectors in which the Bank is also pre-
paring operations. IBRD exposure in Chile currently stands at about 5 per-
cent of public debt, and about 2 percent of total debt.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the Economy
26.       About 34 percent of Chile's land area is suitable for agriculture,
forestry and pasture. Out of a potential 1.9 million ha, about 1.3 million
ha are in crop production; about 1.0 million ha are under irrigation.  Agri-
culture directly contributed an average of 6.7 percent of GDP during 1973-
1982, and agricultural value-added grew by an average rate of six percent a
year from 1974 to 1979. After 1979, partly as a consequence of an overvalued
exchange rate, annual rates of growth slowed.  The agricultural sector value-
added declined in 1982 by 3.3 percent, and in 1983, by 1.1 percent, but
agriculture declined less than GDP as a whole in these years.



-8-
27.       From 1974 to 1979, a favorable exchange rate system and buoyant
world economy helped agricultural exports to Increase at an average annual
rate of 40 percent, from US$130 million, to US$981 million. The most dynamic
were fruit and forestry products. By contrast, production of traditional
crops, especially cereals, decreased significantly. After 1979, the value of
exports declined, and in 1983 agricultural exports fell to US$630 million.
Even so, it is estimated that the sector's trade balance registered a surplus
of around US$146 mfillion in the sae year.
28.       Employment in the agricultural sector has declined slightly from 16
percznt of the labor force in 1970 to 14 percent in 1982. Rural unemployment
has been estimated at 14 percent in 1983, which compares with a national un-
employment estimate of 26 percent for the same year.
Sim of Eoldings
29.       Farm sizes in Chile are expressed in  Irrigated Hectare Equivalent-
(IRE). This is a standard unit of measurement representing the productive
potential of a given hectare. The Ministry of Agriculture (HINAG), has
grouped the country's 353,000 farms Into three categories, based on this
system, for the purpose of providing services and credit: (a) Commercial
Farms (wore than 12 IHE): As a result of the agrarian reform which ended in
1974, these farms do not exceed 80 IRE. There are some 20,000 such farms
(six percent of the total) occupying 52 percent of the agricultural land
and generating about 70 percent of total agricultural production; (b) Small-
scale Farms (0.8 to 12.0 IHE): There are some 145,000 farms within this size
range (41 percent of the total), accounting for about 45 percent of the agri-
cultural land and about 30 percent of the total agricultural production.
They are the main target group of the credit and technical assistance pro-
grams through INDAP; and Cc) -Minifundio- Farms (less than 0.8 lHE): Nearly
188,000 holdings (53 percent of the total) are included in this category. In
most cases the size and/or ecological quality of these holdings are unable to
provide sufficient production or income for family subsistence. They occupy
1.5 percent of the agricultural land and their contribution to the gross
national product is very small.
Oxxgai ation of the Sector
30.       The role of Government institutions in the agricultural sector is
smaller in Chile than in most developing countries. The primary responsibil-
ities lie with HINAG, including to: (a) carry our sectoral analyses and
policy formulation; (b) allocate budgetary resources to sector entities;
(c) supervise the management of renewable natural resources, plant and animal
sanitation, and regularization of rural land tenure; and (d) promote the
development of agricultural technology and provide technical and financial
services to the small farm community.  MINAG's responsibilities are imple-
mented mainly through a Sub-Secretariat of Agriculture and the Agricultural
Planning Office (ODEPA). Both the Sub-secretariat of Agriculture and ODEPA
are represented in all provinces and have the function of ensuring integrated
development in the sector. ODEPA also provides support to the Central Bank
with the technical assessment of agriculture projects.



-9-
31.       In addition to the above agencies, other autonomous institutions,
such as the Agriculture and Livestock Service (SAG), the Agricultural
Research Institute (INIA), the National Forestry Institute (CONAF), and
private entities under the supervision of MINAG have specific
responsibilities in the execution of agricultural policy.
32.       The Central Bank has a key role in agricultural credit. As fiscal
agent for the Government, it emecutes externally-financed agricultural credit
projects. Since 1976, it has had major responsibility for implementing the
financial aspects of three previous Bank--fnanced agricultural credit
projects, and would be responsible for implementing the financipl aspects of
the proposed project, as well as other projects financed by the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the US Agency for International
Development (USATD). It channels loan proceeds and the Government's
resources under subsidiary loan agreements with the banks and specialized
institutions involvel, and controls and supervises operations.
33.       INDAP is the Government agency with responsibility for financial
and technical assistance to farmers who have less than 12 IHE. Its objective
is to develop the entrepreneurial and technical ability of thrise farmers so
that they become more commercially oriented through the provision of
short-term credit for annual crops and wor:tng capital; medium-term credit
for farm development; and long-term credit for the establishment of
perennial crops, livestock, land development and infrastructure work.
Although the Government relinquished direct responsibility for extension
services in 1979, INDAP maintained responsibility for providing and
organizing technical assistance to its borrowers. In 1982, it introduced a
pilot program under which farmers could contract private consulting services
to prepare farm operating plans supported by individual and group services.
In 1983 and 1984, this program was expanded, and it is now expected to
provide nationride coverage. INDAP also provides recommendations on the
appropriate use of the production inputs to farmers that receive minor
production credit and are not able to contract the above services. Although
operationally independent, INDAP's budget, programs, and policies are
approved by MINAG.
PoliUc  Isue
34.       Since the end of 1973, the economic policies of the Government have
been based to a substantial extent on a free market  'pproach.  Under this
policy, markets, prices and interest rates were progressively freed and
subsidies mostly eliminated. The result was that agricultural resources were
reoriented towards commodities for which Chile had a comparative advantage
within a relativelv unrestricted import-export market situation. Land
allocated to the production of fruits and pulses for export increased.   The
area under forest plantations was substantially expanded through the
Government's program of incentives to the private rector for 'ivestments with
export potential.



- 10 -
35.       Agricultural production, espec,ally of annual crops, declined
substantially in 1982 and 1983 as agricuitural producers faced low market
prices associated with substantially reduced values for many internationally
traded commodities. The low prices, combined with a highly positive rate on
borrowed funds, led to heavy indebtedness amongst some farmer groups.
36.       in 1983, under increasing domestic pressure, the Government
introduced a number of programs to stimuli'te agricultural production. First,
domestic reference prices for wheat and oil seeds were introduced and milk
received particular protection through specific tariffs; second, sugarbeet
prices and purchase of total production were guaranteed by a public
corporation; and third, as part of a program designed to alleviate the
liquidity crisis of the financial system, agricultural debt, as well as debt
in other sectors, was renegotiated.
37.       Domestic reference prices for wheat and oilseeds are established
before planting and are based on a five-year average of monthly international
prices with high and low levels eliminated. The Government provides credit
support to the major cooperative union as a purchaser. With the recent
devaluation of the Peso, the increase in the general import tariff from 20 to
35 percent and high international prices, particularly for oils, the
reference prices for 1984 are no longer applicable. Nevertheless, the
Government has agreed to (i) review the effective levels of protection for
wheat, oils and sugar, and at the request of the Bank for other agricultural
commodities produced domestically, beginning in April 1985, and every year
tbereafter; (ii) exchange views with the Bank on the results of these
reviews; and (iii) if considered necessary, as a result of the exchange of
views, to progressively reduce the effective level of protection (Section
4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). Milk receives specific tariff protection
to enable local producers to compete with imports which are heavily
subsidized in their country of origin.
38.       Sugarbeet prices and purchase of total production have been
guaranteed by the Government sugar monopoly, IANSA, since May 1983. The
support price is based on estimates of domestic production costs, and aims at
increasing domestic production to substitute for imports of sugar products.
However, the authorities did not limit sugar imports, and the present tariff
was insufficient to raise imoort costs to present domestic costs. As a
result, IANSA incurred financial losses, and accumulated large stocks of
sugar since the inception of the scheme. The Government consequently
introduced a US$150 per ton surcharge on sugar imports, but recently reduced
the surcharge to US$120 per tor. The recent devaluation of the Peso
effectively reduced the Dollar equivalent support price by over 20 percent,
thus bringing it closer to international prices, and lowered the effective
level of protection by about 50 percent. While further reduction of
protection is important, and will be reviewed annually, the Government has
agreed to carry out a study on alternative strategies for the long-term
viability of the sugar subsector not later than June 1986, under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank. The Bank would be afforded the opportunity
to comment on the recommendations of the study (Section 4.06 of the draft
Loan Agreement).



F                                                11-
39.       The short-term liquidity crisis of the financial system (paras. 9
to 12) also affected the agricultural sector. By the end of 1983, about
15,000 farmers owed approximately US$1.5 billion equivalent to the financial
system, accounting for about 13 percent of the financial system's portfolio.
One-third of the debt was in foreign currency. The bulk of the debt was
concentrated, however, in 9 percent of essentially large-scale farmers who
owed 65 percent of the sector's debt. In March 1983, the Central Bank began
a US$3.5 billion program to purchase overdue loans from commercial banks, to
support private debt renegotiation, and to provide affected enterprises with
working capital. This program permitted the renegotiation of debt to almost
half of all agricultural borrowers, and farmers were granted special lines of
credit by the Central Bank providing them with working capital without any
collateral other than future crops.
40.       Farmers demonstrated their responsiveness to the above programs in
the 1983/84 season by increasing vheat planting by 31 percent and sugarbeets
by 34 percent compared to the the previous year. The total area under the 14
major annual crops increased by 21 percent. Strong interest is also being
shown in investment in milk production as local prices have increased in
response to the new tariff established on imports. Although there was some
decline in export fruit prices in 1983, fruit production remains profitable
and was not subject to any direct Government intervention. Investment is
likely to continue ir this area.
IDAP-rnsticutimosl Issues
41.       At the ?nd of 1983, INDAP had 30 percent of its loan portfolio of
US$104 million equivalent in arrears, in part because the repayment capacity
of sub-borrowers has been reduced due to unfavorable sectoral conditions
since 1981. This high ratio of arrears includes interest which is
capitalized, and overdue repayments which are indexed. Moreover, although
INDAP :sde provisions for bad debts of about 70 percent of its loan portfolio
in arrears, the Government has not permitted IDDAP to write off bad debts.
42.      ITDAP incurred a net loss in 1981 and, despite operating profits in
1982 and 1983, it also experienced net losses in these two years. Provisions
for bad debts and monetary corrections were equivalent to about 90 percent of
net losses in 1981, and 100 percent of net losses in 1982 and 1983. As a
result INDAP has not been able to internally generate the funds needed to
maintain its lending program. The Government therefore provides equity
contributions to cover payroll costs and part of the technical assistance
services to farmers, as well as financing part of the lending program. The
relativelv intensive service in loan promotion, preparation, supervision, and
technical assistance inherently involves a high cost per unit value of the
loan portfolio with small-scale farmers (the average INDAP subloan was less
than US$750 equivalent in 1983). Substantial borrowing from the Central Bank
and from the State Bank during the 1981-83 period was necessary to allow
INDAP to cope with credit demand. Borrowings were equivalent to 41 percent
of INDAP's total assets and provided a 42 percent debt to capitalization
ratio. To help INDAP improve its financial position, the Government has
agreed to take all necessary measures to prevent INDAP from incurring any
debt whenever the ratio of debt to equity is greater than 3 to I (Section
4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 12 -
43.       Progress is being made by INDAP in improving its collection capac-
ity. Partial loan recovery information for 1984 shoving a high recovery rate
on short-term credit, indicate that overall recovery is likely to surpass the
1983 rate of about 60 percent. A special committee has prepared a plan for
the recovery of arrears. The plan has been reviewed by Bank staff and has
been found satisfactory. In addition, INDAP has agreed to maintain separate
accounts for the portion of its loan portfolio in arrears that is recorded in
INDAP's accounts as -provision for bad debts-, as of December 31, 1983; and
provide for its collection or write-off by December 31, 1986. INDAP is also
expected to reduce the percentage of its portfolio in arrears to 13 percent
by December 31, 1985, and to 10 percent by December 31, 1987 (Section 4.04
(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
44.       The inherent high cost per unit value of INDAP's portfolio will
continue to have a negative effect on its future financial performance.
Nevertheless, after its financial operations are isolated from its technical
services, INDAP's net losses are substantially reduced, and in 1991, it is
expected to achieve a positive net income, as a result of improved collection
perforwance and managerial efficiency.
Bank    s    r
45.       The Bank has made seven loans to Chile's agricultural sector since
1948, totalling US$106 million. The earliest operations, in 1948 and 1951,
financed agricultural machinery and irrigation improvements in the Elqui
River basin. These were followed in 1963 by a livestock credit project and a
dairy processing project.
46.       The Bank financed an Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Loan
1119-CH, approved in May 1975), which provided medium- and short-term credit
to farmers, as well ac technical assistance for the reorga-azation of MINAG
and other sector entities. This loan was disbursed in slightly over a year,
and more than 70 percent of the cred,t provided under the project went to
small-scale farmers. The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) of June 29,
1979 found that the project contributed to the recovery of the agricultural
sector through direct support to production. The dialogue with the Govern-
ment in the context of this project also helped accelerate the titling of
properties assigned under the land reform and the liberalization of agricul-
tural prices.
47.       In December 1976, the Bank approved the Livestock, Fruits, Vine-
yards and Agroindustry Credit Project (Loan 1350-CH for US$50 million) to
finance medium- and long-term investment credit for on-farm development and
related agroindustries. The project was implemented by the Central Bank
tbrough 17 participating banks and INDAP. The bulk of the credit line was
exhausted during the first 18 months of project execution, as credit demand
by commercial farmers was greater than expected. A Project Completion Report
(PCR) dated April 2..', 1983 indicated that the main objectives of the project
were generally met, although the amount of on-lending to agrarian reform
beneficiaries and other small-scale farmers possessing farms ranging from
five to 12 IHE reached only 17 percent of disbursements, as compared to the
30 percent expected at appraisal. This was largely because the Government,



- 13 -
until 1979, did not permit INDAP to provide credit to agrarian reform
beneficiaries, in the expectation that the private banking system would
finance small-scale farmers. This attempt was not successful. Subsequently,
the Government and the Bank agreed on institutional arrangements for
small-scale farmers, and INDAP was able to lend to agrarian reform
beneficiaries after 1979.
48.       The Bank's most recent agricultural operation in Chile is the ongo-
ing Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1902-CH for US$36 million, approved in
September 1980). The project provides credit and technical assistance for
on-farm development and related marketing and processing facilities. The
Central Bank, as fiscal agent of the borrower, executed the project through
private commercial banks and INDAP. Disbursements during the three-year
period (1981-83) were only about half that anticipated at appraisal. The
slow disbursements have been associated with the general downturn in the
Chilean economy since 1981. Credit demand by small-scale farmers has been
higher than anticipated (currently 85 percent of disbursements), and demand
by commercial farmers has been low. In the case of small-scale farmers
(INDAP beneficiaries), the financial effects of the economic downturn were
generally not as severe as these farmers did not have a high debt burden, and
INDAP has traditionally assisted clients in rescheduling loan repayments
where delinquency was attributed to adverse market or climatic conditions.
49.       In view of the problems affecting the farming sector, amendments
designed to meet the needs of farmers and to expedite disbursements were
introduced to the loan agreement in April 1983 and April 1984. Under a
first amendment the disbursement rate was increased from 50 percent to 60
percent, a technology transfer program for small farmers was funded on the
basis of a successful pilot program, and short-term subloans were financed
when linked to investment subloans. Under a second amendment, short-term
lending was financed without being attached to investment subloans; in
addition, funds were reallocated for the purchase of electronic data
processing equipment under a program to enhance the effectiveness of INDAP's
administration and portfolio management. As a result of the amendments,
INDAP has recently committed about US$10 million in sub-loans under the
project. Loan disbursements are expected to accelerate substantially.
Project completion is expected by the extended Closing Date of June 30,
1985.
PART IT - THE PRoJEr
General
50.       The proposed project was prepared by ODEPA with assistance from the
FAO/Bank Cooperative Program and Bank staff missions that visited Chile
between November 1982 and May 1983. It was appraised in February/March,
1984, and negotiations took place in Washington, D.C., from October 29 to
November 1, 1984. The Chilean delegation was headed by Mr. Alejandro Espejo,
Executive Director, ODEPA, Ministry of Agriculture. A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled: -Chile, Agricultural Services and Credit Project- No. 5186b-CH
dated November 21, 1984 has been distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.



- 14 -
Project Objectives and Description
51.       The main project objectives would be to increase agricultural pro-
duction, especially of commodities for which Chile enjoys some comparative
advantage, and to assist small-scale farmers to increase productivity on
their farms, thereby improving the economy and welfare of this important
farming subsector.  The project would also assist INDAP improve its finan-
cial and operational capacity. The proposed project would include the fol-
lowing components:
(a) On-farm woxks and agroludustrial investmet credit by commercial
banks and INDAP mainly for perennial fruit crops, on-farm irrigation and
pasture improvement, paddock subdivision, breeding animal purchase, and
productive iafrastructure for livestock developmeent. The agroindustrial
investment would finance processing of agricultural and livestock pro-
ducts, including fruit packing. Some 4,000 subloans are expected to be
made under this component, of which about 90 percent would be to small-
scale farmers.
(b) Short-term credit by INDAP for annual crops and livestock enter-
prises, and to a lesser degree, fruit crop operations. Over 35,000 sub-
loans would be made annually over the project implementation period of
four years. All credit under this component would be for small-scale
farmers. Only the short-term lending by INDAP which is incremental to
the previous year's level of lending would be financed. The period of
May 1J 1984 to April 30, 1985 would be the base for measuring increment-
ality during the first year of project implementation (Schedule 1, Sec-
tion 4(d) of the draft Loan Agreement and Supplemental Letter).
(c) Technical assistance by private              for small-scale fams
and for lMMP. Over 30,000 farmers would participate in a technical as-
sistance program that is a follow-up of pilot operations that INDAP has
successfully completed in 1982 and 1983. All farmers undertaking on-
farm investment credit or a comprehensive package of short-term produc-
tion credit would contract technical assistance over a period of three
years. This assistance would include preparation of long-term and
annual farm operation plans, and 10 individual farm visits and group
services. Technical assistance to INDAP would include short-term con-
sultancies and other costs associated with the completion of the elec-
tronic data processing program started by INDAP under the Second Agri-
cultural Credit Project (Loan 1902-CH).
Project Execution
52.       The Central Bank, as fiscal agent of the borrower, would be respon-
sible for administering the project funds through its External Finance De-
partment. ODEPA would assist the Central Bank, participating banks and
INDAP, at their request, in analyzing subloans. In addition, ODEPA would
have responsibility for supervising the implementation of investments, for
monitoring the progress of the project and for evaluating its impact. The
investmevts to be financed under the project would be carried out over a
four-year period beginning in 1985. Technical assistance to farmers would be



- 15 -
carried out by specialized private consultants selected and hired by the
farmers under contracts satisfactory to INDAP. INDAP would be responsible
for planning, supervising, evaluating and administering the technical assist-
ance component. The qualifications, experience, and terms of employment of
consultants hired by INDAP would be satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02
(a. iii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Lending Terms and Conditions
53.       Proceeds of the Bank Loan and the corresponding Government counter-
part contributions would be on-lent by the Central Bank to INDAP and partici-
pating commercial ba_>  under subsidiary loan agreements. A condition of
loan effectiveness would be that the Central Bank has entered into subsidiary
loan agreements with INDAP and at least one participating commercial bank
(Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
54.       The Central Bank would onlend the loan proceeds on behalf of the
Government and the corresponding Government contributions, in local currency,
to INDAP at an interest rate of 5.5 percent per annum, and to commercial
banks at an interest rate of 7.5 percent per annum. The outstanding amounts
of these loans would be adjusted in accordance with the Chilean CPI. The
Central Bank would discount 100 percent of the amounts of subloans made to
project beneficiaries. Reimbursements to INDAP by the Central Bank for tech-
nical assistance costs would be supported by contractual arrangements for the
provision of services, satisfactory to the Bank. The borrower would provide
INDAP with the grant funds required to repay the principal and interest on
the loan from the Central Bank to finance the Government's share of the tech-
nical assistance program (Section 3.02 (a) and (c) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).
55.       Subloans made by participating institutions would finance up to 100
percent of the costs of the approved investment/production plans of small-
scale farmers, exclusive of family labor, and up to 80 percent of other pro-
ject beneficiaries. On-farm and agroindustrial investment subloans would be
for up to 12 years, including grace periods of up to four years; short-term
subloans would be for up to 18 months. The interest rate on subloans by
INDAP would be of 9 percent per annum; and on subloans by commercial banks of
10 percent per annum.  Outstanding loan amounts would be adjusted in accord-
ance with the Chilean CPI. The interest rates above would allow INDAP a
spread of up to 3.5 percentage points; together with the Government's contri-
butions, this would cover INDAP's full administrative costs. In the case of
commercial banks, a spread of 2.5 percentage points is considered sufficient
to cover administrative costs. Any subloan or subloans made to any benefici-
ary exceeding the aggregate US$200,000 equivalent for on-farm development and
US$1.0 million equivalent for agroindustry would require prior Bank approv-
al. Short-term production subloans by INDAP would not exceed an aggregate of
US$25,000 equivalent per beneficiary per year. Tne borrower has provided as-
surances that it would not use the loan proceeds to refinance existing debt
(Section 1.02 (g) to (i) and Schedule 4.D.1 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
56. The above interest rates, which continue to be positive in real terms,
are consistent with the Central Bank's policies (para. 16) and would not
cause distortions in relation to other sectors. The interest rate structure
would be reviewed each year by the borrower and the Bank, starting January 1,
1986, to ascertain that interest rates (a) remain positive in real terms; and
(b) correspond to market conditions; the interest rate structure would be
modified,as necessary (Section 3.04 and Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).
Project Costs and FinanciSg
57.       The total project cost is estimated at US$157.2 million, including
about US$23.4 million in taxes and duties, US$5.2 million in price contingen-
cies on the technical assistance component, and the front-end fee. The esti-
mated price contingencies for foreign exchange costs are 8 percent in 1985,
and 9 percent annually in 1986-1988; price contingencies for local costs have
been estimated at 30 percent annually. Foreign exchange costs have been es-
timated at US$56 million, or about 42 percent of total costs net of taxes and
duties. The proposed Bank loan of US$56 million would finance the full
foreign exchange component. The Government would provide US$56 million, and
project beneficiaries would contribute about US$45 million.
special Account
58.       To expedite project implementation, a Special Account would be es-
tablished at the Central Bank (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Up to US$4.0 million from loan proceeds, which is equivalent to 3 to 4 months
of peak loan requirements, could be deposited in the Special Account (Sched-
ules 1 and 5 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Special Account would be re-
plenished through the normal reimbursement of project expenditures. Satis-
factory procedures for the operation of the Special Account would be agreed
with the Government and the Central Bank.
Procurement and Disbursements
59.       The range of goods financed under the project is varied and would
be procured by more than 35,000 project sub-borrowers over a four-year
period. Bulk procurement through international competitive bidding, there-
fore, would not be appropriate. Sub-borrowers would purchase items of their
choice from local commercial agents, who represent a broad spectrum of inter-
national and domestic suppliers. Major suppliers of agricultural equipment
and production inputs from Bank member countries are represented in Chile,
and service is satisfactory throughout the project area. Animals for breed-
ing are available from local sources and are of good quality. The Borrower
has provided assurances that any equipment procured by IND P to complete its
electronic data processing system would be procured through 'nternational
shopping, involving a minimum of three price quotations. The need for com-
patibility with equipment already procured would be taken into account (Sec-
tion 2.04 (ii) of the draft Loan Agreemcnt).



- 17 -
60.       The proceeds of the Bank loan are expected to be disbursed over a
five-year period and would be fully disbursed by March 31, 1990. This esti-
mate takes into account the experience with the past three agricultural
credit projects in the country. Disbursements of Loan Proceeds would be made
for 50 percent of amounts disbursed by the Central Bank under subloans for
on-farm and agroindustry investment and short-term credit; and 100 percent of
foreign expenditures and 50 percent of local expenditures for equipment and
services contracted under the technical assistance component. Disbursement
for subloans and for local services under the technical assistance program
would be supported by statements of expenditures certified by the executing
agency. Documentation for these expenditures would not be submitted to the
Bank, but would be retained by the Central Bank for periodic inspection by
Bank staff.
Accourtiug and Audits
61.       The Central Bank and participating institutions would maintain
separate accounts and records adequate to reflect in accordance with consist-
ently maintained sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures under the project, including the Special Account. These ac-
counts, and the financial statements of INDAP, will be audited in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year, a certified copy of the audit reports will be submitted to
the Bank in such detail and scope as the Bank shall request (Sections 4.02
and 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Fiancial and EconomicJ
62.       The project would expand INDAP's credit services and develop an ef-
fective technical assistance program in the small-scale farm subsector, in
which only about 20 percent of farmers currently use institutional credit.
The program would both increase the small-scale farmer coverage by 30 per-
cent, and the extent of the use of short-term production credit and invest-
ment credit by individual farmers under the guidance provided through the
technical assistance program. The investment credit line for large-scale
farmers and agroindustrialists would contribute to the financing of viable
agricultural production and processing expenditures. Overall, the project
would have a significant impact on increasing agricultural production. Im-
port substitution commodities and exports (fresh fruits) would be especially
affected, with consequent foreign exchange benefits. Although the nature of
the project does not enable quantification of employment effects, it is ex-
pected to reduce underemployment in agricultural family labor.
63.       To examine the incentives which might exist to encourage small-
scale farmers who are currently not borrowing to adopt improved production
techniques and use institutional credit, five farm models representing
typical, traditional production systems in this category of farmers have been
analyzed. The models assume that a low-input annual crop system is changed
to a high-input annual crop system, combined in some cases with the estab-
lishment of table grape vineyards and fruit orchards. The livestock models
involve increased utilization of existing grazing resources, increased milk



- 18 -
prices and greater feed production. Relatively high financial rates of re-
turn ranging from 25 to 75 percent, reflect the substantial benefits which
can be obtained by using technology, inputs and credit to capitalize on un-
derutilized resources in favorable production environments. The return on
increased inputs in the annual crops model are in excess of 100 percent.
Annual family benefits derived from the farm increase from the equivalent of
or about US$2,000 to between US$4,000 and US$8,000 for the less capital in-
tensive farm models, and to over US$18,000 for fruit crops involving higher
capital investment. The economic rates of return for the five models range
from 20 percent for beef production to 62 percent for annual crops.
Project Risks and Environmemtal Impact
64.       The project is a follow-up to several Bank-supported agricultural
credit projects that have used the same implementing institutions. These
institutions have demonstrated their ability to be effective in the field of
agricultural credit. The experience and lessons learned from the recently
developed system of technical assistance through private extension services
indicate that the risk of this component not functioning effectively is
minute. The main risk would be that the economic policy measures adopted by
the Government in 1983 and 1984 would not have their intended impact in ex-
panding the agricultural economy, which might have a detrimental effect on
the demand for credit. These risks are not excessive, and the support for
small-scale farmers within the Chilean economy, as proposed in this project,
would be warranted even if adverse circumstances were to occur.
65.       No adverse environmental effects are expected as a consequence of
the project. The Government has an effective system of licencing the use of
chemicals and fertilizers.
PART V - LEGAL  SRUME     AND AUThORI
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Chile and the Bank
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The main conditions of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to
in the text of this report and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - REDOUS
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 27. 1984
Washington, DC



- 19-                                Acne:I
Page 1 of 5
TA2L   3A                                        nAoEt I
UNItE                 - SOCIAL INDICATOrS DATA Ml,
Ql.                                 aiime  e2W  cuitzClun  AsCas) g
MOST               (HMS RnT USTI ) .
Uti .    zo7nol     U      STTNLb    Lar. jAmTrA  A CARt     USCI
Am tunm R. 100)
TOrAL                             757.0      757.0        757.0
AGRIODLTIUAJ.                     134.4      156.9       174.3
Qm    CAP= Can             *0.0                1100.0      2210.0             210B.6                 2345.3
mar _mmnN  CU
CKIL0GRUAN W OIL EQUVAENT)        570.0      879.0       754.0              995.5                 1122.6
uuuao  -  ZL SIUIIO
POPULAKTEOH.ID-TKAR (UN0AdS)   735.0        9369.0      11487.0
U1MA POULATfOS (IO r TOTAL)       67.J        75.2        82.1               6.5                    48.6
OP0UPATEO SOJSCTSION
POfLATION IN EA  2000 CHILL)                             14.7
STATESAXRY POUAItdu (HILL)                              20.7
POPUUION UUUITI                                          1.7
mOPllATIOU mIT
pun SQ. Nt.                      10.0       12.6        14.9               35.7                   82.9
Iu! sq. aM. ACII. LAND           56.4       59.0        64.6               92.4                  158.9
POULAUTION AE STRICTUN  CZ)
0-14 uS                         39.1       38.1        31.4               39.9                   31.6
15-64 YIS                        56.5       57.2        62.9               56.0                   61.1
65 AMAOTE                         4.3        4.8         5.6                4.1                    7.1
tOrATION GROWT 7ATE CE)
TOTAL                             2.2        2.1         1.7                2.4                    1.6
URlA                              3.7        3.1         2.4                3.6                    3.7
ERumnC  xn  RATE Cru  730)        34.4        26.6        23.1               31.3                   23.4
CRU  DEATH RATE (CP  T3OM)         12.6        6.9         6.7                6.1                    6.B
GUMSS IBMOCTIO  RAITE               2.5        1.6         1.3                2.0                    1.6
PAMNL? PLANIDOI
ACCETRS. AIIZAL (TO0SM             ..      216.7       265.6 IC
ues (CZ OF HAMNX UN)               ..         ..          ..              - 40.3
TMDX or MM0 PROD. PlR CAPTA
(1969-71-100)                     96.0       104.0        98.0              114.3                  114.5
PR CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORItS CO ROF UEIIRWET)       114.0      110.0        IL40              110.6                  128.6
PFSOES  (SANS PER RAY)           71.0       71.0        76.0               67.3                   39.7
or WICu imu         AmS. UL A   2D.O      30.0        27.0 Ic            34.1                   34.5
CRE  (AC1S 1-4) DWATHR UTE        20.0         9.0         2.0                5.7                    5.2
LrP ECSpzC. AT BIRTH (YEARS)       56.9       62.4        69.7               64.7                   67.4
INFAIT EWE. RATE (PE THOS)        119.0       82.0        27.0               60.6                   54.2
ACCS TO SAM WATER (OPW)
TOTAL                            62.0       56.0        82.0 Id            65.4
UDRf                             76.9       67.0        93.0 7             78.1
RURAL                            11.4       13.0        3S.0               46.2
AaCSs TO ECETA DISPWL
(Z OF X'OPUATrOII
TOTAL                              .        29.0        32.0 /I            52.9
URNMA                              ..       33.0        36.07;             67.0
RURAL                              ..       10.0        L1.0W 0            24.5
POUATI PER PETEICUN              1760.0     2130.0 k    1930.0 Id          1917.7        t         065.8
POP. PER NIRSING PERSON          640.0       610.0       450.07r            615.6                  764.4
pop. p'R SOSPrXAL CO
TOTAL                           260.0      260.0       2S0.0 If           367.2                  326.3
URUIA                           270.0      23O.0       320.0 7r           411.5                  201.5
RURAL                              ..     1610.0       770.0 7r          2636.3
AIISSEORS l Ea PR  OSPITAL           ..         .. D.0 /c                    Z7.3                   20.0
AIS=
AVERASE SIZE OF mOSENOL
TOL                               5.4        5.1
138AM                             5.2        5.0
ItURAL                            6.0        5.5
AveRAE i. so F PERSO/ROON
TOTAL                             1.7        1.4
URIAR                             1.6        1.3
RUAL                              2.0        1.7
ACCESS TO ELDCT. CZ OP fhlhLLICS)
TOTAL                            70.6         ..        70.9 A.
URNIM                            86.3         ..        90.0 
RURAL                            23.9         ..        35.0 7j.



-20 -                                 Anex I
Page 2 of 5
aw  - S   3                                       1*382
HEX                   111.0      107.0        115.0              106.3                  103.5
MAPL                  107.0      101.0         146.0             104. 5                  96.7
U@WAMwI~ TOTAL                   24.0        39.0         51.0               43.2                   59.1
PALTi                  24.0       36.0         53.0               42.3                   68.3
pEWS                   24.0       42.0         62.0               44.5                   50.6
VOC&   CS air hS0h3AU   26.1 A       23.0        29.Z               22.6                   21.6
IU1IL-1SAIR 3*22
13233!                             .         30.0         24.0 jj,           30.1                   2.
14.0       13.0         20.0               16.u                    0
AU!! LUnSACT IAU CZ)               65.6        69.            .                79.3                   73.6
1A555fl CANS/TOUSAD P0o             7.6        16.1        40.2                46.0                   56.7
3IDu32 15= 1/2OUSAND pop          150.6       169.4        292.7              225.6                  164.3
TV uZIvZU/TNOU8AID pop              0.1        52.4        110.5              107.2                  123.8
1V41A1 CDILT UUsM.A
immasrS) OzaOILTzoN
PIR 7A0311 P01ULATI0N           11.6         34.1        66.6 1J4            63.5                   36.3
CI10KA ANNUAL. A12UNDAIICECAPI      7.1 A       4.7          1.4 ~j2.6                                 2.9
TOTAL 10 1010  Cr30s)            2505.0      2135.0       3690.0
136*15 CC21.7                                22.0         26.4               23-3                   34.5
*AGRCTLU3 (P3IOM)                 0.2        22.6         19.2               31.5                   40.7
1303    a c1sICSIT)              20.1        21.0        29.4                23.9                   23.3
FAWZCZ1A-ZON RATS (PCUM)
.OTAL                            32.0        20.8         32.1               32.2                   42.9
HALE                             52.1        61.4         47.7               49.3                   54.7
TNIKAl                           14.2        13.5         16.3               15.2                   21.0
503aC DMENIC PATI0                  1.5         1.4          1.2                1.4                    0.9
WIOT 01 MUIVA?3 zuaain
n 0333? 20 OF 1NOU1    o           .         51.2 lj        ..
LOWEST5 203 OI M9UO13UOUE.                    4.,47
1.0633 40501 2003330L3             1.3.4
-our um   -
35231  ASIOLOE  POIUT lUcI
Elm C09613R CAPITA)
an"*1                              ..          ..        360.0 Id             2
3AJL*S                           3.          2.          1.                 154.0
i.VSI. (us t  CAPIT)
U3111                            2.          2.          340.0               D-                     D..3
.UAL                               ..          ..          .1               372.4
ISTIAZO P0F. 352 ASSOL?T9
MOWER?! 130033 LEVEL (5)
32.1*11. *.7 .3 
MT? AVAILASL
NOT AIPLICAYL2
~L Ikbe soep evrerag for each indicator ea" popoultlon-vulghted arLtlm.tlc uatm. Coverage of countries smsg the
Indicators depends on availability of data anA In not gulfore.
b Unlaes otberwise noted. fleta for 1960r refer to any year between 1959 ald 1961; -Date for 1970' between 1969 end
1971; and data for NeAst Vacant atiusate betmeen MO8 end 1982.
/c 1977; Id 1979; A1 975; /f 1L978; &a Pereonmmi In government aervLcee only; Ah 1962; IL 1968.
JUN. 1334



-21                                                            Annex I
rn,.6*w_tnu~ 1wmwa                                                  Page 3 of 5
_rtb @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e _-. Ift  r__ _e"Ma_Ir ___roo_.
W.My66.     "M   1.6..6.  61   MM.61 .6 66s611.466-6 4661666667 .6      III p666664 6  466666  166 6661.646.466   1.46666 466661.60.  6.4.  6
6ft6e61.  4.h6. 66 Fo6d. am"   66.64-o               M  _r_  ; 1. 16 l         -.i *   _h._6 h *_.. -     r _   _          .t -          or el .a        1.
1*_ I.   .. i  -  Oft .m 162 61.   myr66b _m-y 61 61*.a61     a-m  N       1166h  r6 . *1 W  mi- y  66te 66l    66e6 or   64 1ad 6666 .1. Goalr ft-     6.
6666mly666                     66                                             t. 36 11   6-                          .6..w 1. ..  p_   "   .9.6
leas on..                                                                           VI6M 61.  _  _ *666 mm  ...... 1W M6.... 1     *0  ..6 9*  I9366w  .6 6. 66666
"646 1.r466  66 6.1.6ar 611.66  96.6  1. n.6   6 ..m1               61.$jpWpt"rfi                                           aM6.666066.666666,146   *6  66.68... 64666..i 6666 
66.661... ..6   1     4kl-   at             .is  . iIm ~16U.flWh*I1M                                 -666666644  9 166  6461
l6Wb:4666 46...                                                                                                             - 6". . g61.,- 6  h- 1t".  .
s~~~~o    w  -M.-tac   a 1    "*     "tv_ .                                                 t  e_e. -o    ".e _-W   _d P.1_.1"   rEh s Xe_fe e  *tel ad1s
1.611,16.w61-86666   661 -66.         "M _,666  64666    It"W6                  166466 _   li-  -_.. 66a6. -              oft6 61-.6.6. P - IF 666  6 .6
wlue   M.1, 1491 dc..                                                                 br.6WO  "or ~_ut_ einMatat  _-4- pt.91 I                           t-1
~ p666.6.. 066 664 6661.666166666. 61 666 6.i 696.             ..66 m4y.- aft.06.        bvg.0tt.  of..0-.ah1%
664 6.                                                                                  adle y   66n6)"  r- _          I .46D.9  Payo  - _tp6_ .ulat  w  %F. _*.-.
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6*.  _._6.  1.4.mtl
6660. 663661 _u4.. {           _          -IW 66 .S -  %                                    1.66 m-  666.U.6. _t  1 d .666616*61   . 6 '1.-V4W66  66
s. %S1"_  .9&~1_9_ Par -F44. low.666 my  166 6-6.464  W.6  6046.6-80..  66  6.-                        6.    .
wI;hnq~~~~~~~~~~4                                                    a l- t           l;le -Whr_     ble  d-~ _.W*_erI ____bs d..
_ _r rl 1~~~~~~IV. IWO. ad *I u _al _
dL~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~* __ boad am --. R. Ma                                      .-zOvo  Mm" .M
.6     1015MV02"b"1. -M 1..  _6   _.6 _   , _ .6 66.l.a                           6666 k     6ory...    .b. ..        ......"W, 6 _ 9t6 $6   (a. 1.  .6*t66"6 6
i3~;  =F 1|-1r..16   p.6666  .66.6. 646 6* 666-. ..66_l                             6*46*  1.666. 6446166. 666.1n 666 .66  6p6666__6   66
at"  - _-    t _. 61670         .      6          6 lam d66-64. 1616" t:   aotag.                                6.6 6666666666.
_ere 4 dPoPla- -. a_e-ot ao bo" _, low t
_e_*_ ~ ~ a --   al WWI _z , _-  alp __  _ft  -||sty                         arltga           i-r  ftertr    -It w-att-tc-t-a
*96 6* 6e6 dm.                                      _66L*666  - W66  *066   6466666  v6 46.666,,16.6 *ww|_"
__   _ --O    lit. -P--W                                                          1 . 1A.0 I--,            11 1_r    66b 6.4
.6  6 4636 6 666.14 am6. 664 6663 *- t-_                  _   _e66 _.                                      Of_- o_a  _
P--.  WA_1-oaft"s  -w 1.61..  .6-.. 66 .666  .p...6                                               am.1.66Z."   -_ _666e6.6
_e___--  *  _aq& 4-_1- A. r._1_t  --gq  _rt e.  _| *-awar *n-S.  Pau_t 1.0t
69666  .I  *_m         d- r.m   ay .6.6  m.666666  .4 466                n     a       61.4  66.6..   1.66.66   .46.....................w 646  t  6 a.666446
Pt .-U*V6-* r 6666. _5    y 6t*66r 6.                                             6. *06*l4 666   6666l1 44w66.
-6.666.6I-*0661. _my-. .*0       1.6*    6666 -             6.... .       ..- '_.. ..r6- _.6666*0666661.6
_wl,,,_ >_,,~-.h ,,p_- _d                       S._~.R l.j                                                           G-    laol .... -1. aa F-.
6666a- .~u-ir -mlft- 6*666666                                                     dm26646 I.,   .     1,     6 -     666  Mi".  06,. - _1,,     4-1
6666. WRL 666 -1.6l66   666 . 6.166y 6666 .rn.66  .6t W6.                          r.66646 WAdp6666.at-h o    fay                        =R,
ad.666  6w   666         _".    666661.66  _6t6I                                    - .66  .1.6..  _d.6 66             -Law -v ... -       '......1 P-
a..6   _11     ,    666 *...      6 .1.  61             ""6                       *6 .6           . 6* 66666 46.366666 6*066666"P.
p-or_ %S.doP            batoftal 9  _  CMI p,.aa . _.*1 ' r- -                   c-
Sao      .        . 6.6  *             r 6 1  _   9- 6- ,    .                                                     -         - _m  W
_I_*1..      66e 106,   my *6616  .66   6.r.    .1_.66. 4696.                                                  r~lf|~1 e.e~e
_wE<_  ~ ~ 1 4_    -1 *t*-   a Fo poago-   rS_  *1- Aao-$  aa.-I -  -%-I _   b .
_  _-i_f_ r_ V ~      ~      ftgft  h-0   *  _-                             pw.l t-     9 .1 _to. It p_e_1 F wo         _<fS,           f
U.              r_'-   a.aWa- '_  % ..............                       .           .....     ......  .  _,.rl _19-  W,._  M.e_.At_
_=_  ti 3W.  &Y. _ 664. 666.  46-66666  6666666                              666          6        _s _66 666   66666666  66 6.66616.  r1 666
srotta  n1  *_f-1   _- _sa_ fi w * zr   J. _.   _.          t 1 n-      f          a%=       =       _e-_ *W .*
t -  s_. ssm. Ze ssza _. ~      ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        p.A    - .
t66 66  r_66066  646*66 663*066 6.  (my                             *         _         6     *06           6666. 66661  666*.e 666666 6661 6_Sz)-66s~
6*  *q 6.61.         W M6 -6-_I. 66.6 *                   *  6                             166 66_6   66 6          . .      * .1_     . 6 66 p
66*0tg- 66666.6Iw.6-a1. 66.66 . 66.4666.      6666   66.6.6                                    p64.-16671.66..6666.66    y
-t66 -61 _* _6_                           _.r *           W 6... 6           _6  6                      6  _    6 _ 1_ r1 _- .f.6            6     66
6.. P6 .61_6 ft. my66*66g            66       6       .   11S. _666_6_ le                  66676                           All I.'-66      _ 1.  1-  .
r6         *1     66   6.66 -I A_1   t6_b-I_ -      1 666                  6 6          6    6 r  66666w 6,          r
fnr_~~~~~Ao- _t _ r.sg   _   _       . Pa. .%_.  _ "aw- 1.~                                    dM    -        F2-r    h__..   *wct 
,_Zet~~~-AW.  _W oft1   _ rs W_--                                                      S  -   _2t, e,1:9,1!{_l.___,
aaW.-  taw_  La-.          -Cd                                                                                 M f"g     .-"                T-l)-*        t   _E~-bwz.a1        w4
61. 6606166t 6..46.66666r6 _ *66h666 66 ...6...66.. 6...6 6666 I... U.     .       6.6...4..6_6r,n 696t6rr 46663666466.6 66.46.....4...Ii. .66 _.466*-.
r_r_. 666.6 4.6..                                                                6.661.6.66is.- 66666 -_  66666 t   _gat..4.6, .    ..VW  66  ..ft6 6.r _*
_.666 _..6                                                                          .6666 -z _-616 66*66 466.66 664 6.6.6 1*. _    t
=j*- *=* 66666666666 P-- 6"         -n.tor.6  6.-66666 t.6 61o                                               - 666   6.66..
6666666666r  6666.( 667r._1664_6666..46.....66.66.66666...,...666.............-...66.6.6. *64.66. 6666. _ 66*--_1 . _ _r66.-tr 
t.6.6F  -Sb -.1.6         f_   ....D _6P. -   66f r. I666. _1M.   _6         *_ r1a--fta
_.am       a_1. '__o. _   _   .6.                                                                     191 7.    - _  _              -       t- r_ B
_66.       r. - -r *066 661.66 _ _6666f_ _.6 66664     zz                    I i ox  M 1-to, _          tt- 1. .
_r_ a  S V  ardOM   _ -1~- rd  ra__ 1 s*   .. 
_  6.6.6 _I .                    _100 6606   -* 693 .6 .   .__6.66 r6666 _6-=              .      l    . _  06.1. ,_ 16 76666  _6 666.6666  66 6646.
16666  _b.(T661 )4                4  6666 7_6_1. -66_ 6*t6  6666                     6666 _  _. _6o_.66  4666 666 66.616 r_-_- 66 my r_ 1   6*06 r1666                       6
*_ ~~~~- -                           -t --*-Ur W   11 _t,a-_ 
.U-W-ld4l   '.-J.1   to. I'J-.. .1..p66061                                                   661.l - 6   6  6666-
.r_ Ir o .e r_" _ r _ " ,_ ~~.  It                                                    ra.t s 
r"sr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-wbo lo. fi z re -4 Igo dl_sr"__ s
6166____                                                                                     t    r __. p 6  4666611 p66666 6-  __-_ r w46_6.
66,6e -                    Izf a (3.    -R _6        6t t. 66666                  6, 66 *66   16 666666  6666 66  64  66666.
_   .1. 6U'                1 m-66 7 7 _a       6 "-.6                     6       6    6       w 66 (6t 1L66w 7_6   - 1.* I    -. *_2 r-
Pa66        6-. tor a166) A. %6 6  t. Si 6.66. 6466.466-64666-1.6     -4  6666  -                                                 - "   -966
666o4-667666  wo 66. 666d.  68.64  ".-4L C6. 6  66_4             a,            6 *                            -    663   616C 66 6       . 66    .Iw
boo" oo, art6 ol -"6  P--664 69-4 666p& 6 641. 466666.                                    _I                      6..  61.R ug   666  66-.  6.6766.
C..MwM f- ~      ~      666616 64.6         .'6666.   666667066- 4
.  -W  *_nw- .  _1                 _             i _ p   _. _0   P.                    .aMaor -_           Sa - ad r . Mp"l-_ .-1 .4  0   -.Pa-17
Tf_t _ftellU ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*06.6.  smy. 660* -66 4s.64t.-_
dw_ Zul'su -ML 66                 666-6. P_aa66. to."  4-                           l"41.66A6611-1d"a, Too61666 666 66up ..o _l6pt 66-
66*          km6   6 .. p466   n.t .6I"1-64 "  -p-L mad. -6..                       .                 na.ra1t.6 .. '       m.. w66 6-  &-.-.-A.
-- .z  _uP0    r_. _-     . _ &_   ft  _wb- t_a% .-A-                                -1                 .R
tu *or aanos-   r,rr.ago_  as  rl-t  la _-t-
|IT._-X*t-~~~-)-e= U                                   rtl-0    t                                                   -.. ta 0p-
*0 .  my. 60  6.6.myp.6   .--6 0- 66.da 666.41  w96 aft  3936*6l66
466" "M".6;16616  6.66(6.so                                                                               62 .666.6  666 6  64-A      - 666666p6666,
666666646.6696666'  (6606 -        66p 6669C6601666 Map661666m167666   6466   6666 W                                      t..6* '....   36.6  .66..
6.r  6*666*6.af *06   66416 mat61  . 9664666666 66.66  3. ..                        1166 696. 6*ft666 dm6. 11.6 66        -*4  6656  .61666666
.4666. WU O66 66ppy 66666.. my1 -6621 .664  6.16*   0.                               .61666666666666   6  6.666  6* 66666666E 66661. R2
myb6666666664by 606*6  . .6.16.u6W -    46 6        d l tr                       L h3a-    1.66  61- --6.6.6*16 -d 61 6*63  t6.66
__6          16._             _ .      6
dS_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~at tthl_.Ofa"t
46 466V3 it    -   666Is .4 Iwo   .  my"Id                .1'666' 6.. 6.666  (1.6. ftba 6.. 6*666. ft           66l 964r 6 664666
7.6 ~ ~     ~       ~       ~      ~       i.       .. .4.66.                                  o .6 *6666I;96
66I   *0666  .6w*666666*36*                 ..66*U6.14  6.~.644                       0*4.
6616 6666 P..  .6*3  660- 'MI1E 1. 666666-L6..6-   - 11l66
-ft' 6.4 my 606  -*6  6   .61- 66        6-.6 ..m   WC36                                                .64e  . 6-6. 666666                66   663.6
6166666l 666a 66-MF -M   4  666 motor 64  96666            L. 6669.                 6661   666664.666666*.664.
dm6.                                                                                .666646666.fo  -    g*    U     ft-atifi
tral-  a 66666  -61  6616  66.6  h-*0 C. "al    4661  myflrabot  P-06  6669.946366   666   601.6   6666  63..66   **
"t 6 6666  6-6LU 6.66   6666646666666 -.6.666*   4666660,l66p760.66l.it   1  66666.
6.66176. 66444646666  66666.66  *664..&..                                                      .6    6   0 .66.6666   64.16    *
P--Nmmn am CO.A. Rlftwn      diap-61 16 63.6.666. 6a6*066166.3666.6666
"LL-1-  at 4L.P-".   lao-  a-It1.66166.6pt661.6  6.666  9669 6606.6. 6.661    6*6
*o O      66ar   - 666W46*0  -1 C66  61A 6&166 66666                  fl2.666.6666616.6666666666.



- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ m  - M =|mu
UMIJW2-s ~ ~ ~ ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      = CB=
un -"    mm
97L                            2m                  S2 C                                   .         3
swulan~9                                       6s           s IA 37     |SW         5          7       7)6 6
_W  TnmplC4                           35                3D   E5             -31       .        2E56       6. 
Tbp       cE CLSga  N                  ,                           -Z.       60      MS6       Y2         S72       29S
QW     dim  3SwAwim~                                          -7J  2      5   Q61         3Z7        9      ILO
r,,                          Z~~~~~~~~CLMu4  in       A    OD T     2|8     &g) gWL7i GE                   89z5mMu
&K_   _ t~~~~~~~a   3.tlZ5 Pe-                   3C^ AM IL6 0c tw             Dh= 1S6            e6J
_ef~~~~~~~~~~~N                              lybl  6DO5 3w3    2 9S                  an 3   B73 lS
pout5 wRS 8~B2mi76 8K L L
42~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z    Ll.0                                   106J 7S II L ^ 3            I"  LO
Fod-Ls    3 .6   ZA.3                                                              2          1.5        L3 DOD  0
4Nodo  aAwSa                          36                        --1.      42 .6    73        I          Si   iLO
.-oz_X on.                            !               906                 MA       2.7       30         42   U   > 9
, ,~~~~~~~~~n 2.9                          NW    z6              mui       anD         D mn
__ AD66 ^ 22JlXS C3 MM
GEP~~~                              30SLO  am  =9  776                           7" 33.  U6.2  I.
axtw I    TOIg.  -UMbrf                5R2             9vt   00           IL6    76           3|9Y2 5w
a     tmTd=&                           SL3        o=                  97        A=   7 2S
crE=  Pdts                                253       X.5       29L7   I R  R         z3L
Crr_ne   _remft                          2L0        21L3      22.7       3%_7       31_0
Saxi     t+) cc efcl C-)      I     D      1.       *3.2   0 "           -Ll        -3.
C,pIXO E _OM                              6.6        5.7       4.5        3.         2.0
Pcf   Fo=xkcft                            0L_......O  -I S    -L-9        0J6       -0.1
1960D70  1970-75    1975-ZO    1931-#    1982-83
GPCcuu  FA e                               3.4      0.0        7.4      -14.0      -LO0
GW pe  -CCd Qmf Rw  CZ)                    IS5     -I.B        5.9      -15J7       -2.6
_-m    cogWI     - ct  CZ)             4S3.8    0..3.
XWR                            ~~~~3.3    -17.9     1.2           _       7
1          5os Swq   RAt                  0*        0v        0v          n_.        aa
T         .-tMEtLc                        2.3       LA        2^         10.0        6.9
LCIM~~~~~~~~~~~
19 X,



23- 
am GPM t                                         m    or L 5  cum
ACTUAL                                -                          FROJECTZD
mqm= CE can  W -3    IM          47=     u   2~        6.=     %W$%W 5S                AA       49       .X   A.       6VA 7Z  94S9$
Tm      f C_&41C as      4MJ  -1D    -QM    -3M    -5.W34  7A            -650    5V7 -=A           -,W      5AW  -SW    *=         of    A%-X
135      331    a"       -              62       8      4       5                 i m .    an                   in
-c i       L_           -WL      &7    -j   -aLl  -56.W     5 -ZM .  -3.34.5   -35.1    41.         4       13>    13      a       m    i.3O  z.As
e       14 L I             182   -31        WL3  2.5   42    55.  50    508                  OM       4         no    ab   4D       7n     98    .
ax &m    1n'i       C        ZJ               2 SZ &7t t-U   LI    2ZX         13.    445   JW   t       W    LAM   Lim    1JISb L.2                   i
-       d  -              -    3    1.3     3J5.5 -3.3    -25A  -7.1       *.M&S 7   1.7   3.03    D3           W5     no5     m      mo-   ac    E
-        km                -01go Nm.w3.C-354 72.   -15.LL9   -2D  4   -W-7 -1.0A  - - 7.8  ,3. WA    -n,53    -.2   -142   -4       -a   -41  -3
_tmclw  _nvs          _ L      J    47   4G7  LAM     2J             3.AM   7 ~ 7~         ZL7 L R  L            & 2 %   ZO    2M  2M A,
-wmvm                         3.4    32 3     24    1    S7.9    8             .S      5     -*44                0     30             3A      33  3.2
X--d of                               1.2e     13tXZo5m 2 3 13  S2 673 3    1.5  I.M4  8725  30.2 .4    1I.0
a                               to.   13  3         113 13  _  _  _
I                          1      6     12      2b 2.            7       _       _       _       _
dmm0   1                                    2       3 2                                                 4        6            3 _ 
=  :       381    3m 35         403     47    1,43    1,au1      __2  _,11    _,3         _
1No6    i       1 2      1      13       .       3       _ 2.
1_3in.1                       14       i       29     a9 22                _        _          -
SO      433    SY5    L,    42J1                 _       _ 
atns                          W        15     12      17%      13      14      3       ..      2
.-D   in.in                    4.3     4.34    4A4   5JU1    1,04    9.413  12.           15   1.
AMU DZ Ma _m     a    Sm       3,aD    3,2    3.4    4-,35   4,82    4.1        4,4D    5.1S   64.9
aOUlbda2Z4W`   Z.31=   2Jt2    17    LAW    1,W                                141b 1214   1447
]UP                           up     1136      1      152     gm      IC3     31       -      376
la                                2 2          2       Z       21      21      21      -       19
3b2 231   2.15L   IJ1J                                73 LY   30    13    Ln5          -       -
I.2     130    1,2   2,6    3.14    3.333   3,07W   XW3   5,511
_tMbwn  liBe %W                 fin      o       9n 9   1,S      725       7      514      -       -
him" EMind __t                   670     772    910    13    23    %9            ,13    83    7.51
Toc1 Mmc  EdPkmf HZD2
SS&W &Umin.           L          1      513   1,L   11s   1.5    2.146   25           2.5Y    2.09
locuot                         115     260    381       218     so      913   1,423   1,A7    703
1_ I     7. GE -o s               31      39      41      3       33      31      4.      59      43
A- t   =C as Dv    k 3b    ()   L2         7.      8.7 S    .L6    12.      7.?      0    -        11
rfd2                             641     64      7J      3.0     7.5      9.2     92    -        _
retiom                           03       SS   3.A       37 D     .2       3     16.2    -
w        3 GE -i   pub- Zw Q=.)  14.5    3.        4.      6.1     73      64.     W.7     -        7
-dal                             19.4    Ih4    17.3    1.       SL7     1A6      Ms    -        -
102""                           XL.3     IA      5.7     7.     7JI       6.0     L7    - 
m 11e 33                      3.5      3.a    3.9      3.5     3.3    3.5      4.1   4.       5.0
S            7D dl_Jt. ^       d 3 b.      5.7     3.5     La6     LI  1.          Lb      2.9
in|dmIa  &4t  14in             lA      1.9     L.A     L9      L4    L2        L O
ML    oL  MD                       Lb      0. 0A          0.5     0.5    .4 ..      3
31m  ml.1             in14          -       -       -       -       -       -        -    -_. .
ML dtbJbW- 84   ~ 253
7X~~~~~~~~A _I atF c of -*-_  _m __ 
306 ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ta.9V0WI
Ymnidw ~ S cf pou -mtcome
Ik _cpdanqd   5 Ys 3.
,, am    3-0  -                      97.0
Eam  d  **of Shut yw                         33.0
m -f - "oft p43k
lam  13.51UL
vionobw n. ML~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-24                             u
TIM STATUS OF BAIR GROW O6IOES IN CmH
A. STATNT OF MM LOANS AND IDA CIND;T (as at September 30, 1984)
Loan or                                                    US$ afilica
Credit     Fiscal                                   An t (less caucl-a-io)
Number      Year    Borrer    D         U            Bank  ID    Umdsb:rsed
25 loans and one credit fully disbursed             326.2   22.9 I1      -
1832        1980    Chile        Water Supply        32.4    -         10.8
1902        1981    Chile        Agri. Credit        36.0    -         17.4
1927        1981    Chile        Road Rehab.         42.0    -          1.8
2297        1983    Chile        Road Rehab. II    128.0    -         107.1
Total                                               564.6   22.9
of which has been repaid                          204.4    4.2
Total now outstanding                               360.2   18.7
Amount sold                      7.2
of which has been repaid       7.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                      360.2   18.7
Total undisbursed                                                     137.1
B.  SIIENENT OF 'PC IDnn:rn:NTS (as at September 30, 1984)
Fiscal                             Type of            Amout in US$ *Illion
Yr          Gir                   Business           lon               Total
1958, 1959, Empresa Minera de
1966, 1984    Mantos Blancos       Copper mining      35.10    4.25    39.35
1959, and   Fideos y Alimentos
1965          Carozzi S.A.         Food products       1.50    0.15      1.65
1960, 1961
and 1965    Cemento Bio-Bio S.A.  Cement               1.20    0.10      1.30
1963        Cia. Manufacturera de
Papeles y Cartones  Pulp and paper       3.00     -       3.00
1970        Minera Sagasa S.A.    Copper mining       10.45    0.45    10.90
Money and capital
1982        Inverchile               capital market      -     0.20      0.20
Total gross commitments                   51.25    5.15    56.40
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   34.75    0.70    35.45
Total Comaitments nov held by IFC   16.50    4.45    20.95
-          -        -
Total Undisbursed                    26.99    1.88    28.87
1/ Includes exchange rate adJustments. The original amount of the credit
was US$19.0 million.



- 25 -
AIRE in
Page 1 of 2
AILSVlRIIS A CEDIT PROJ1!
Section I:  lietable of En Events
(a) Tim taken by the country to prepare project: 17 months-
(b)  Project prepared by:  ODEPA wth FAO/CP Assistance.
(c)  First presentation to the Bank: September 1982.
(d) Departure of Appraisal Misson: February 1984.
Ce) Completion of Negotiations:  November 1984.
(f) Planned Date of Loan Effectiveness: Narch 1985.
section II:  Speclank I          ti   Acti}n
None
ScIo m:  Speia Condions
A.  The Borrower would provide assurances that:
(a) on-lending arrangements between the Central Bank and each
participating institution would be covered by subsidiary loan
agreements containing terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 53);
(b) the Government would supply INDAP with the funds needed to repay
the Central Bank for the loan received to finance the technical
assistance program (para. 54);
(c)  each year, beginning January 1, 1986, interest rates would be
reviewed by the Borrower and the Bank for purpose of maintaining
interest rates positive in real terms; and responding to market
conditions (para. 56);
(d) it would not use the loan proceeds to refinance existing
indebtedness (para. 55);



- 26 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(e) beginning April 10, 1985, and every year thereafter the
Government would review the effective levels of protection for
wheat, oils and sugar, and if necessary for other agricultural
products; it would exchange views with the Bank on the results of
these reviews; and would take the necessary measures to reduce
the level of protection (para. 37); and
Of) not later thsa June 30, 1986, the Government would carry out a
study under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank on the
long-term financial and economic viability of the sugar sub-
sector; and exchange views with the Bank on the recomedations
of such study (para. 38).






