Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMFCA4L USE ONLY
Report No. 13227
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2481-CH)
JUNE 28, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CIIILE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 24812H)
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTh
Local Currency Unit                                       = Chilean peso (Ch$)
Rate at Appraisal (September 30, 1984)                    = US$1/Ch$115.08
Rate at Completion (October 31, 1991)                     = US$1/Ch$360
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BIH            Basic Irrigated Hectare
CB             Central Bank
CORFO          Development Corporation
IANSA          National Sugar Company
INDAP          Agricultural Development Institute (MAG)
MAG            Ministry of Agriculture
ODEPA          Agricultural Planning Office (MAG)



FOR OMCLIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Off0e of Dlreotor-General
Operauon Evaluation
June 28, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Chile
Agricultural Services and Credit Project (Loan 2481-CHj
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Chile-Agricultural
Services and Credit Project (Loan 2481-CH)" prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division,
Country Department IV, Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. The Borrower corrected
several figures in the draft Part I, but did not prepare Part II.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory. The working capital and investment loans were
effective in increasing the productivity of the farms, and the extension/credit package worked as
planned. However, several factors delayed disbursement for both categories of loans: competition
with a still-disbursing predecessor project, falling product prices, etc. The privatized extension
services tied to the primary credit agency's (INDAP) lending were an innovative and successful
feature of the project. Rates of return have not been recomputed, but the on-farm improvements
financed under the project appear productive and sustainable. Institutional improvements were
modest, especially in INDAP's control over arrears.
The Bank followed this operation with a credit project which provides Bank funds for
INDAP's extension assistance program but not for on-lending. It calls for policy changes, including
graduation of INDAP's clients after a specified number of years. It will be important to observe
whether these small farmers will have access to commercial banking intermediaries after graduation.
Although the on-farm investments are durable, sustainability of the reforms introduced by the
project-and therefore of the project as a whole-are rated as uncertain.
The PCR provides a good review and thoughtful analysis of project achievements, despite
gaps in data. An audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwlse be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2481-CH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pae No.
Preface ................................................. i
Evaluation Summary  ...........................................  iii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ........    1
Project Identity  ..........................................    1
Background  ............................................1
Objectives and Description ..............              ....................   3
Design and Organization  .          ..................................   4
Implementation  ..........................................   8
Results ...........................................                                 13
Sustainability  ...........................................   15
Institutional Performance ..............              ....................   16
Consultants, Procurement and Audit .......                 ..................   17
Covenant Compliance .....................................  17
Findings and Lessons .         ....................................   18
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE   .............................................  20
PART BIL    STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ...................... 21
Table 1:      Related Bank Loans ..........                .......................  21
Table 2:      Project Timetable ...........              ........................  22
Table 3:      Loan Disbursement  ..........                .......................  22
Table 4:      Project Implementation  ........               ......................  23
Table 5:      Project Costs and Financing  ...........................  24
Table 6:      Project Results .............             ........................  25
Table 7:      Status of Covenants  ..........              .......................  27
Table 8:      Use of Bank Resources  ........                ......................  29
Map No:  IBRD - 18279R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2481{CH
Preface
1.    This Project Completion Report (PCR) has been prepared for the
Agricultural Services and Credit Project for which Loan 2481-CH for US$56.0
million equivalent was approved by the Board on December 20, 1984, and signed
on December 21, 1984. The original Closing Date of March 31, 1990 was
extended first to April 30, 1991, and then to October 30, 1991. The Loan
Account was closed on February 28, 1992 and the outstanding balance of
US$190,125 was cancelled.
2.    This PCR was prepared by Agriculture Operations Division IV of the
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office, on the basis of the Project Brief,
Appraisal and President's Reports, the Loan Agreement and its Amendments,
Supervision Reports, Borrower's Progress Reports, and the correspondence files.
Other materials and sources, including OED reports, sector studies and
interviews, were also employed. A draft PCR (Part 1) was sent to the Borrower.
The Borrower's response corrected two numbers in the text but contained no
comment on the content or conclusions of the draft PCR.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2481-CH)
Evaluation Summay
1.    Project Objectives and Design The Agricultural Services and Credit
Project followed directly on from Ln.1902-CH, the Agricultural Credit Project,
and was a further time slice of the Government's 8-10 year program to reach up
to 50% of the 140,000 small farms with a maximum of 12 Basic Irrigated
Hectares (BIH). The project was prepared and, in its earlier stages executed,
during a major recession which in the sector, witnessed a massive expansion of
farm debt and declining agricultural production.
2.    The project was designed to support increased output of the commodities
for which Chile enjoyed comparitive advantage; help small farmers improve their
income and living conditions and give their farms a commercial orientation; and,
strengthen the financial position and operational capacity of the main
implementing agency, the Agricultural Development Institute (INDAP). The
project was expected to increase agricultural production for import substitution
and exports, bringing in much-needed foreign exchange. Favorable effects on
under-employed family labor were also foreseen.
3.    The project provided: (a) investment credit (US$19.6 million) for on-farm
development and agroindustry, from INDAP and commercial banks to around
4,000 medium and small-scale farmers; (b) short-term production credit (US$18.4
million) from INDAP to some 35,000 small-scale farmers per year for annual and
fruit crops, and livestock; and (c) technical assistance (US$13.9 million) for
INDAP and for small farmers, to include for the latter an agricultural extension
program associated with the credit for over 30,000 small farmers, including most
of INDAP's investment and short-term borrowers; and assistance to INDAP to
complete an electronic data management system for portfolio control, and to
carry out a plan for the recovery of arrears.
4.    Project design was simple and, in accordance with the Government's
economic strategy, strongly oriented to private sector execution; it was
implemented by a limited number of agencies (INDAP and a group of 8 private
banks) and was nationwide in scope. It was consistent with the Bank's short- and
long-term lending strategy in its support for measures to reactivate the economy,
expand employment opportunities, improve national infrastructure and economic
management, and promote exports and efficient import substitution.
5.    Nevertheless, why did the Bank process another, predominantly credit
operation at this time, under prevailing recessionary conditions and with Ln.1902-
CH disbursing so slowly? The FAO/CP preparation team queried the inclusion
of medium farmers for similar reasons, noting in addition, the availability of credit
from other sources including a new US$230 million IDB/CORFO multisectoral



iv
credit line. Several factors are relevant. First, the Bank wanted to ensure that
the successfully pilot-tested INDAP technology transfer program had access to
complementary credit. Second, this project was another in a long-standing
pipeline of hitherto successful agricultural credit operations. Third, the project's
main focus was not poverty alleviation but general credit support in two streams -
better-endowed smallholder clients of INDAP (around 8 BIH-12 BIH group),
and medium-sized farmers (13-80 BIH) and agroindustries borrowing from
commercial banks, both of which were believed to have the resources to revive
sectoral productivity. Finally, without the medium farmers, the project would
have encountered stiff internal opposition in the Bank as a vehicle primarily for
production credit - most small farmers were not interested in investment
financing.
6.    Other reasons were also important. The GOC had requested production
credit and, given the special circumstances of the crisis facing credit institutions in
Chile, the Bank felt it was justified. Further, the production credit with technical
assistance would be important factors determining the extent of any recovery,
complementing Government introduction of minimum producer price guarantees
and renewed interest in the production of annual crops.
7.    The loan would finance only production credit which was incremental to
the previous year's lending. The objective of this rule was to increase the total
amount of short-term credit provided to INDAP's clients while ensuring that
Bank funds were not merely replacing credit already in the system. An equally
important reason however, was to make a large production credit component
more acceptable to management.
8.    Project Implementation: Implementation of the technical assistance
component (agricultural extension and institutional improvements in INDAP)
progressed fairly smoothly, although by 1988 the extension program had slowed
down due to lack of counterpart funding, the result of waning Government
commitment to small farmer development at a turning point in Chile's political
history. In contrast, the credit component, especially production credit, suffered
profound delays causing a massive disbursement lag until 1990.
9.    Credit disbursement was handicapped by many difficulties: (a) most of
the commercial banks were still committing funds under 1902-CH as 2481-CH got
underway; (b) interest rates for project long- and short-term credit were higher
than the market; even when the Central Bank eased rates, debt-shy farmers held
back, preferring to self-finance with the cash flow from improving prices; (c)
uncertain export marketing conditions depressed investment in apples and grapes;
(d) the incrementality formula was unworkable and foiled INDAP's access to
Bank loan funds for credit; INDAP's chronic internal cash flow problems
prevented it from maintaining its lending at levels where it could qualify for Bank
funds under the formula; short-term subloans tended to remain constant in real
terms, year to year; and devaluation of the peso reduced the dollar value of
INDAP's short-term loan portfolio; and (e) INDAP's cash flow problems were
aggravated by the lack of a Revolving Fund in the Central Bank for subloan
repayments.
10.   Various options were tried to stimulate movement in the credit
component, including lowering project interest rates, raising the free limit on
subloans by the participating commercial banks, and establishing a Revolving



V
Fund in the Central Bank. After several requests by the Government, the
incrementality formula was re-defined in 1988. Disbursements finally picked up
in 1989, due in part to: the more rational formula; market rates rising well above
project rates (which nevertheless remained positive); and importantly, to greater
Government commitment to INDAP, whose extension and credit programs were
expanded and put on a better financial and administrative footing.
11.   Project Results: Project indicators established at appraisal focussed on
the financial performance of INDAP, and did not include any benchmarks for
credit disbursement, the extension program, or productive impact. Further,
monitoring and evaluation remained very weak. Based on the limited
information available, the project substantially achieved its objectives.
12.   The INDAP extension program expanded beyond projections, to almost
34,000 participants by 1991, with expansion after 1989 made up almost exclusively
of the poorest and smallest, under a major re-orientation of the program.
Available results confirm the success of the INDAP model of technical assistance,
delivered to farmers by private extension contractors. Yield data for 1988/89 for
the better-endowed small farmers suggest dramatic improvements in productivity
for a range of commodities, which in all cases also exceeded national averages for
the same year. No data is yet available on the very small, poorer beneficiaries.
13.   No production information is available on the farmers served by the
participating commercial banks, nor is it known if they contracted extension
services as required under the project. This segment of project beneficiaries had
low visibility throughout implementation. References to their performance are
scant in the supervision record, which focussed heavily on the problems of
production credit disbursement.
14.   Small farmers received some 85,000 subloans (more than one in many
cases) from INDAP, while 242 larger producers and agroindustries borrowed
from the participating commercial banks. The Borrower Completion Report
(prepared by the Central Bank) states that investment subloans were much larger
than anticipated, but provides contradictory supporting data. INDAP however,
claims that investment subloans were much smaller than anticipated at appraisal
for reasons including: over-estimation based on the performance of the previous
credit project (Ln.1902-CH); incorporation after 1989 of much smaller farmers
with modest investment needs and borrowing capacity; declining prices for farm
commodities reducing credit demand; and devaluation of the peso. Both agencies
claim that increased technification of agriculture resulting from INDAP's
extension program was a factor which, by INDAP's calculation, reduced the size
of subloans due to greater efficiencies on-farm, and in the case of the Central
Bank, increased the size of subloans due to the need for greater inputs. This
contradiction was not resolved.
15.   Institutional results were mixed. On the positive side, INDAP was able
to develop an efficient and innovative model of agricultural extension, and one
which minimizes public bureaucracy. High standards were established for the
program: (a) private consulting firms were required to meet technical and
professional criteria for entry to INDAP's national registry for tender
participation; (b) INDAP established training programs for the contractors and
in-house staff; and (c) the quality of services delivered was controlled through an
oversight system (also private sector consultants) set up to monitor the
performance of contractors. On the other hand, the computerized system for



vi
subloan administration and portfolio management did not meet expectations.
The systems acquired were insufficient to produce comprehensive, compatible
data to support better credit administration, and personnel were slow to adapt to
the computerized system.
16.   INDAP's portfolio arrears appeared (somewhat tardily) to meet the
targets established under the Loan Agreement; however, in the course of
preparing the follow-on project (Ln. 3473-CH) it was found, using generally
accepted accounting principles, that arrears for end-1990 were 31%, not the less
than 10% reported by supervision missions. Arrears control became a central
issue in the new project.
17.   For INDAP's better-endowed small farmer clients, area under annual
crops trebled, and the value of that production quadrupled by the 1988/89 crop
year. (Both indicators declined sharply thereafter due chiefly to several years of
drought). These results are impressive in the context of INDAP's program, but
whether they represented a "significant impact" within the generic project
objective of increasing production for import sunbstitution and exports, is
unknown. It can be assumed, however, that employment opportunities opened
up for family labor, a projected benefit. No economic rate of return was
calculated for the overall project.
18.   Project Sustainabilit. The project's achievements are expected to be
sustained and extended by the Small Farmer Services Project (Ln.3473-CH),
which seeks to strengthen and consolidate the financial and administrative
elements of INDAP's small farmer program. A demanding set of actions is
required of INDAP to reform its portfolio management, while the extension and
credit programs introduce the twin principles of graduation and cost recovery.
An important question concerns the longer-term availability of credit to service
small farmers who have, through the INDAP program, switched to high input
farming; such farmers cannot borrow from INDAP indefinitely, and it remains to
be seen whether commercial banks, given adequate incentives (being developed
under 3473-CH), take up the challenge of servicing such farmers.
19.   Fmding! and Lessons: The main findings and lessons of this project have
already been reflected in new operations and have also been factored into the
discussion and design of agricultural projects, especially credit, in other parts of
the Region. The need for administrative and accounting discipline in INDAP's
credit operations, especially to obtain better data on arrears, internal controls on
the credit cycle, and a mechanism for the transparent formulation of subsidies,
had a major influence in shaping Ln.3473-CH and generically, in establishing the
idea that public credit institutions can and should operate with discipline. The
project confirmed the feasibility and effectiveness of private sector delivery of
extension (although this does not imply that the Chilean model can be simply
transferred elsewhere). Greater effort was found to be needed in developing
tailored research for small farmers; mainstream technology, merely scaled-down,
cannot be assumed to fit their circumstances. Finally, the project reconfirmed
that packaging extension with credit promotes the adoption of new technology.
20.   The most important lessons were: (a) cost recovery and graduation should
be the principles underlying any publicly-funded extension and/or credit program,
and are the basis for their sustainability; (b) monitoring and evaluation is
essential, not only for gauging whether implementation is on schedule, but also if



vii
substantial progress is being made; it is needed for _2 gQQ evaluation and for
determining if the right things have been done; (c) land titling emerges
repeatedly in agricultural credit projects and should always be examined during
preparation as a potential obstacle to sublending/disbursement; (d) supervision
missions must contain expertise appropriate for the project design and principle
issues; and (e) attempts to persuade small farmers to make the transition from
low input farming to sustainable high input farming should be accompanied by a
strategy for ensuring their access to credit over the longer-term.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CIuLE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2481CH)
PART E PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identitg
Project Name:      Agricultural Services and
Credit Project
Loan Number:             2481-CH
RVP Unit:                Latin America and the
Caribbean Region
Country Department IV
Country:                 Chile
Sector:                  Agriculture
Subsector:               Small Farmers
2.    Background
2.1   Economic Situation. The Agricultural Services and Credit Project
followed directly on from Ln.1902-CH, the Agricultural Credit Project, and was
seen as a time slice of the Government's 8-10 year program to reach up to 50%
of the 140,000 small farms with a maximum of 12 Basic Irrigated Hectares.' At
the time of project conception, agriculture was contributing about 8% of GDP
and employing about 20% of the labour force. Exports of agricultural products,
including forestry and fisheries, were increasingly important, amounting to well
over US$1.0 billion in 1980 and 1981.
2.2   The Government's economic policy stressed the free market and a
subsidiary role for the public sector. Markets, prices and exchange rates were
progressively liberalized, and subsidies eliminated. This caused a reallocation of
land resources to the most productive activities (fruits, vegetables, livestock) at
the expense of cereals, oilseeds and sugarbeet. In the agriculture sector,
Government limited its responsibilities to controlling and conserving natural
resources, plant and animal control and inspection services, and extension, credit
and research mainly through the private sector.
2.3   Beginning in the early 1980s, a decline in international prices for
agricultural commodities coupled with a 25% increase in the real effective
exchange rate, provoked an inflow of cheap food imports and a major downturn
in domestic farm prices for food crops. Devaluation of the peso in 1982 caused
farm debt to expand rapidly due to large-scale speculation in land and other
assets from 1979-82, relying on borrowings of relatively cheap US dollars at a
1.    The BIH measures the potential productivity of land relative to that of
one hectare in the fertile Rio Maipu Valley near Santiago. Unirrigated
lands are usually 0.1-0.2 BIH per physical hectare.



- 2 -
fixed rate of exchange. By 1983, farm debt was equivalent to 160% of the gross
value of agricultural production, or some 15% of the total portfolio of the
financial system, causing the Government to intervene to restructure this debt.
Agricultural production, especially of annual crops, fell in 1982 and 1983 in
response to market and financial conditions.
2.4    Role of the Central Bank in Agricultural Fmance. The Central Bank
(CB) had the principal role in the provision of agricultural credit. As the
Government's fiscal agent, it executed externally-financed agricultural credit
projects, channeled loan proceeds and the Government's resources under
subsidiary loan agreements with the banks and institutions involved, and
controlled and supervised operations. General credit policy in Chile at the time
was based on two premises: volume had to be compatible with the Government's
monetary program, and the cost of credit had to be positive in real terms.
2.5   In early 1983, the CB launched a program to purchase overdue loans
from commercial banks to support private debt renegotiation and to provide
affected enterprises with working capital. Almost half of all agricultural
borrowers renegotiated their debts; the CB also granted special lines of credit for
working capital without collateral other than future crops. These particular
measures did not benefit small farmers, who generally did not borrow from
commercial banks.
2.6    Government Assistance to Small Farmers: INDAP. The Agricultural
Development Institute (INDAP) is the Government agency responsible for
financial and technical assistance to small farmers with less than 12 BIH, and is
currently implementing the Small Farmer Services Project (Ln.3473-CH) which
succeeded Loan 2481-CH. Its mandate has been to increase small farmers'
productivity, bring them into the economic mainstream where possible, and
improve their general living standards. To achieve this it has provided both long-
and short-term credit, and extension services.
2.7    At the end of 1983, 30% of INDAP's loan portfolio was in arrears due to
adverse sectoral conditions. Although INDAP made provision for bad debts of
about 70% of its portfolio in arrears, the Govemment did not permit INDAP to
write them off; combined with monetary corrections, the result was almost
continuous net losses from 1981 onwards, and the inability to generate intemally,
sufficient working capital to maintain its lending program. Sound evaluation of
INDAP's lending record to small farmers was difficult to make due to a portfolio
heavily-laden with non-performing loans, and an accounting system which did not
discriminate between the costs of its lending and administrative operations.
2.8   Following the curtailment of public extension services in the 1970s
culminating in the Government relinquishing direct responsibility in 1979,
INDAP introduced a pilot technical assistance program in 1982 using subsidized
private consulting services in an area south of Santiago. In 1983/84, this program
was expanded to cover over 13,000 beneficiaries nationwide. Financing under
Ln. 2481-CH was to further expand the extension program to reach 30,000 small
farmers, linking the provision of extension to long and/or short-term subloans.
2.9    Disbursement under Ln.1902-CH (the ongoing Bank agricultural loan)
was slow. The Government's devaluation of the peso in 1982 caused relative
prices for agricultural exports and imports to improve, but this had little effect on



-3 -
credit demand due to the high level of indebtedness of most agricultural
enterprises. Better prices and greater returns in fact prompted many farmers to
invest with their own, as opposed to borrowed resources, foreshadowing a similar
pattern under 2481-CH. The slow pace of disbursement under 1902-CH caused
the processing schedule for the new operation to be pushed ahead to FY85. In
the interim, the Loan Agreement for 1902-CH was amended to accelerate
disbursement, including the introduction of short-term production credit, which
the Bank did not commonly finance. This paved the way for a similar component
in the new operation.
3.    Objectives and Desription
3.1   The project was designed to support increased agricultural output of the
commodities for which Chile enjoyed comparitive advantage; help small farmers
increase their income, improve their living conditions and give their farms a
commercial orientation; and, strengthen INDAP's financial position and
operational capacity. It was expected to have significant impact on agricultural
production for import substitution and exports, with consequent foreign exchange
benefits. The project was also expected to stimulate opportunities for under-
employed family agricultural labor.
3.2   The project provided:
(a)   Investment credit for on-farm development and aeroindustry
(US$19.6 million) from INDAP and - to a lesser extent -
commercial banks2 to around 4,000, mostly small-scale farmers,3
for perennial fruit crops, on-farm irrigation and pasture
improvement, breeding animals, and livestock infrastructure;
agroindustrial investment would include processing of agricultural
and livestock products, and fruit packing.
(b)   Short-term working capital (US$18.4 million) from INDAP to
around 35,000 small-scale farmers4 per year for annual crops and
livestock enterprises, and to a lesser extent, fruit crops. The loan
would finance only short-term credit which was incremental to the
previous year's lending.
(c)    Technical assistance by private consultants for small farmers and
for INDAP (US$13.9 million) including: a comprehensive
2.    Banco Osorno y la Union, Banco del Desarollo, Banco de A. Edwards,
Credito Inversion, Banco de Santiago, Banco del Pacifico, Banco
Hipotecario de Fomento Nacional, and Banco Sud Americano.
3.    The commercial bank clients would be almost exclusively those in the 13-
80 BIH category, defined in the Loan Ageement as "commercial" farmers.
INDAP does not lend to this group.
4.    INDAP services only farmers with the equivalent of 12 Basic Irrigated
Hectares (BIH) or less.



- 4 -
agricultural extension program, associated with the credit,5 for
over 30,000 small farmers, including all those with investment
loans and the majority of those with production credit; and
assistance to INDAP to complete an electronic data management
system for portfolio control, and to carry out a plan for the
recovery of its portfolio in arrears.
4.    Desig and Organization
4.1   The project was simple in design and strongly oriented to private sector
involvement in accordance with GOC strategy; it was executed by a limited
number of agencies, most of them familiar to the Bank from previous operations;
and it was nationwide in scope, with only three interdependent components. The
project was consistent with both the Bank's short-term lending strategy, which
was to support a sound program of Government policies to reactivate the
economy and expand employment opportunities; and with its medium- and
longer-term strategy for Chile which was to assist the GOC strengthen its
economic management, improve national infrastructure as a basis for sustainable
growth and, support export promotion and efficient import substitution.
4.2    Nevertheless, it seems reasonable to ask why another credit operation was
processed at this time, under the prevailing economic and sectoral conditions, and
with the experience of Ln. 1902-CH running parallel. This issue was not raised
during the internal review process, but the reasons were probably the following:
the Bank wanted to support expansion of the promising INDAP extension
program, and credit was believed to be an essential element in the extension
package; the Bank's fairly successful agricultural projects in Chile over the
previous several decades were primarily credit operations and this project was
part of a long-standing pipeline; and, the extension/credit package was designed
to stimulate the production and productivity of annual crops which had been
declining due to sectoral conditions. However, good project performance is
closely related to strong sectoral growth, and in the circumstance, a more
convincing case should have been made that the project would help bring it
about.
4.3   The FAO/CP team raised a related issue in its preparation documents.'
FAO/CP noted that the need for further financing for medium-sized farmers
(defined in the Loan Agreement as commercial farm beneficiaries)7 was not
obvious, given that only 10% of such financing under Ln.1902-CH was disbursed
after 2.5 years (out of an allocation of US$32 million); a US$230 million multi-
sectoral IDB/CORFO credit line was newly available; and both the overall
economic situation and sectoral conditions counselled against it. Again, the
5.    All farmers, including the clients of the participating commercial banks,
undertaking on-farm investment credit or short-term production credit,
were required to contract extension services over a period of three years.
6.    FAO memorandum, June 13, 1983
7.    Comprising farmers with more than 12 BIH, but no more than 80 BIH as
a result of size limitations imposed by the agrarian reform which ended in
1974.



record contains no discussion of this issue but several factors are relevant: the
project's main focus was not poverty alleviation but general credit support in two
streams, i.e., the better-endowed smallholder clients of INDAP, and medium-
sized farmers/agroindustries both of which were believed to have the resources to
revive sectoral productivity; and, without the medium farmers, the project would
have encountered stiff internal opposition in the Bank as a vehicle largely for
production credit - most small farmers were not interested in investment
financing.
4.4    Concerns were expressed in the Bank during the review process that the
percentage of short-term to total credit under the project was unusually high
(about 48%). Acknowledging that short-term credit was badly needed in Chile
and private sector demand for investment credit was low (due to indebtedness
etc), reviewers nevertheless believed the Bank was unwise to try to alleviate
widespread illiquidity through isolated project features. Economists in the Bank
felt that the short-term credit problem was linked closely to general
macroeconomic policy options which were still under discussion in the Bank.8 (A
decade later, more rather than less short-term credit is often preferred, in order
not to lengthen artificially the term structure of the market).
4.5    The Bank had traditionally financed mainly medium- and longer-term
investment credit and, to a much lesser degree, short-term credit for increases in
permanent working capital. However, the Government had requested production
credit and, given the special circumstances of the financial crisis facing credit
institutions in Chile, the Bank felt it was justified. The availability of production
credit, combined with technical assistance, would be important factors in
determining the extent of the emerging recovery, complementing Government
introduction of minimum producer price guarantees and renewed interest in
annual crop production.9 In the case of smallholders, no other investment would
be required for about 85% of them, demand would be generated by the
extension program, and INDAP was the only source of financing for the small
farm subsector.
4.6    Project short-term credit was to be incremental, based on a formula which
called for a comparison between the previous year's subloan disbursements and
projections for the coming year.'" The objective of the rule was to increase the
total amount of short-term credit provided to INDAP's clients, and to ensure that
Bank funds were not merely replacing credit already in the system. The latter
was perhaps simplistic given that funds are fungible and, if the funds of the
intermediary were going into some other useful activity in the sector, it was not
necessarily bad for Bank funds to replace them in the credit chain. Further,
there is no discussion in the preparation record about the incrementality formula
or its implications in the context of INDAP's financial structure, operations or
8.    Memorandum, December 12, 1983.
9.    Issues Paper, March 23, 1984
10.   A Memorandum of July 14, 1988, in making the case for removal of the
requirement, claimed that OED had determined that the incrementality
provisions as formulated in 2481-CH were unique in the Bank.



condition. In practice, the incrementality rule was unworkable (see paras. 5.4,
5.6-5.7).
4.7   Project design sought to introduce discipline into INDAP's handling of its
credit operations, and these efforts precursed even stronger conditionality in the
follow-on Small Farmer Services Project (Ln.3473-CH, effective in October,
1992). Under 2481-CH, INDAP was required to produce a plan for improved
arrears recovery as a condition of Board presentation; the loan would finance
computerized modernization of subloan processing; the Government was to
ensure that INDAP did not incur any further debt whenever its debt/equity ratio
exceeded 3:1; and INDAP was to keep separate accounts for financial operations
and technical services to determine better its performance.
4.8   Five farm models representing traditional small farmer production systems
were analyzed to determine the incentives necessary to promote the adoption of
improved practices and the use of institutional credit. The models assumed that
low-input annual crop systems (with the benefit of technology transfer) would
change to high-input annual crop systems, associated in some cases with vineyards
and fruit orchards. The livestock models involved more intensive use of existing
grazing resources, increased milk prices and greater feed production. Rate of
return estimates on the models (no ERR was calculated for the project as a
whole) were very optimistic."
4.9   The original project outline, as presented by MAG to a Programs/Projects
mission in 1982, contained a sophisticated and expensive (US$25.0 million)
agricultural information component (advanced computing and remote-sensing
technology for weather and market intelligence) which, after review by the
Government, was deleted; however, a minor element of that component was
preserved in the form of a mechanized Credit Administration Systems program
for INDAP, a component which gained significance as attention focussed
increasingly on INDAP's need for discipline and accountability in its credit
operations. The original design also included credit for investments in minor
irrigation works and equipment for individuals and associative groups of water
users within existing irrigation systems. In the interests of preserving the Board
schedule, the subcomponent was dropped since it required much additional
analysis.'2
4.10   Senior management favored a time-bound program for making INDAP
financially self-sufficient, but staff asserted that INDAP was a rural development
institution responsible for providing extension and credit, and could not be
expected to perform like a bank. Even so, unlike most Government institutions
in Latin America, INDAP was recovering some of the costs of extension. In
11.   Financial rates of return ranged from 25-75%; returns on increased inputs
in the annual crops model exceeded 100%. Economic rates of return for
the five models ranged from 20% for beef production to 62% for annual
crops.
12.   Funds needed to be longer-term (15 years) and on soft terms to stimulate
demand; indebted farmers would have trouble meeting collateral
requirements; and there was little experience with water user associations
as borrowers.



credit, however, its costs per unit value of its portfolio were inherently high due
to the nature of its clientele and the need to maintain branch offices throughout
the country. While management's concept of INDAP's self-sufficiency was not
spelled out, this may have been an opportunity for earlier, detailed scrutiny of
INDAP's financial and administrative handicaps and a more strategic approach to
its development and sustainability.
4.11   In clearing the loan package, senior management cautioned that further
protectionist agricultural policy measures by the GOC would be unacceptable,
and that existing measures should be phased out."3 At negotiations, this took
the form of conditionality requiring: that annually from 1985, Government would
review levels of effective protection for wheat, oils and sugar, and at the Bank's
request, other domestically-produced agricultural commodities; and that the
Government would carry out a study on the viability of the Chilean sugar
industry, including its impact on the balance of payments, fiscal budget, and
employment. Other related conditions were designed to complement an
intensive Bank/Government macroeconomic and sector dialogue already
underway at the time.14
4.12 Project Organization. The Central Bank, as fiscal agent for the
Borrower, would administer project funds; ODEPA would assist the Central
Bank, participating banks, and INDAP, at their request, in analyzing subloans.
ODEPA would also have responsibility for supervising the implementation of
investments, and for monitoring progress and evaluating impact.
4.13   Project Cost. The total cost of the project was estimated at appraisal to
be US$157.2 million equivalent. The foreign exchange component, about 36% of
the total cost, was financed by a Bank loan of US$56.0 million. Of the remaining
US$101.2 million, US$56.0 million (36%) was financed by the Government, and
US$45.2 million (28%) was financed by farmers and agroindustrialists.
4.14   Proiect Risks The SAR (para. 3.15) depicted project risk as fairly
minimal, in terms of institutional capacity. INDAP's innovative system of
extension delivered by private contractors was believed relatively risk-free based
on pilot experience. Further actions (building on those initiated under 1902-CH)
were included to bolster INDAP's financial performance. Risks not reflected in
the SAR were: the relative uncompetitiveness of Bank-supported credit under
the project; the natural tendency for small farmers to use their own money in
preference to borrowed funds; and, INDAP's requirement, in practice, for land
title or a verifiable equivalent (long-term rental contract etc.) as collateral for its
loans, at least to the better-endowed participants (see para. 5.10).? Finally, the
13.   The Government introduced a number of measures in 1983 to stimulate
agricultural production including: domestic reference prices for wheat and
oilseeds; tariffs on imported milk; guaranteed prices and purchase for
sugarbeet; and re-negotiation of agricultural (and other sectoral) debt.
14.   Memorandum, November 16, 1984.
15.   This is not mentioned anywhere in the record. The Agricultural Sector
Review of 1989/90 found, based on discussions with INDAP regional
(continued...)



- 8 -
perception that economic problems might continue despite Government
measures, and dampen demand for credit, did not temper the optimism implicit in
the projected high rates of return (on farm models), which were dependent on a
shift to high input farming for which credit was essential. In the President's
Report, credit demand was stated to be dependent on agricultural prices and
profitability, which, under normal circumstances would have been correct.
5.    Implementation
5.1   Implementation of the technical assistance component (agricultural
extension, and institutional improvements in INDAP) progressed without
incident, although by 1988 INDAP was struggling to implement its extension
program for lack of counterpart funds, the latter resulting from waning
Government commitment during a turning point in Chile's political history. The
credit component suffered profound delays, causing a massive disbursement lag
until 1990; disbursements were still only 65% of the loan well into the first
extension of the closing date. lThe advent of a newly-elected Government in
1990 saw implementation improve, with more funds flowing into the extension
program, and stronger demand for credit, especially for investment; however, the
poisoned grape incident of 1989 and subsequent embargo on exports of Chilean
fruit, caused serious short-term financial difficulties among growers, and placed
heavy demands on the Government for bailout assistence. Funding was also
stretched by the drought of 1990/91 and the emergency relief program organized
for farmers."6 The following sets out the main issues affecting each component.
5.2    Credit The first disbursement of the credit component did not occur
until a year after effectiveness; the participating banks and INDAP had already
processed most of the credit applications for the 1985 agricultural year and had
committed funds from other available credit lines. The 1986 agricultural year saw
credit demand evaporate, setting the tone, with only modest variation, for the
next 3-4 years. Investment lending did somewhat better than production credit,
which stalled completely.
5.3    Credit disbursement was handicapped by a canasta of difficulties: (a) most
of the participating commercial banks were also participants in
1902-CH (closed June 30, 1985) and were fully devoted to committing funds
under the earlier loan before they could start on 2481-CH; (b) interest rates for
project long- and short-term credit were substantially higher than the market;
even when the Central Bank reviewed and eased rates in late 1986 (as called for
15.(...continued)
officials and small farmers in the field, that INDAP required title for
credit. Moreover, INDAP's preference for extension program candidates
with title related directly to its need to link extension and credit to get
the desired production response, and to INDAP's perception that formal
ownership of land entailed a greater commitment to, and interest in,
improved farming techniques. As INDAP's extension program evolved
from the late eighties, with large numbers of minifundistas entering,
collateral requirements were liberalized.
16.   INDAP had a major role in coordinating and delivering emergency
assistance for small farmers.



- 9 -
in the Loan Agreement) to par with the market,'7 debt-shy farmers still believed
they were too high and preferred to self-finance using the cash flow resulting
from an improving economy and better prices; (c) uncertain export marketing
conditions depressed investment in grape and apple production; (d) the
incrementality requirement foiled INDAP's access to Bank loan funds for credit:
it had great difficulty reaching, let alone exceeding, the lending level of the
previous year, importantly due to its chronic, intemal cash flow problems;
moreover, short-term subloans tended to remain constant in real terms year to
year, without increment; and, devaluation of the peso reduced the dollar value of
INDAP's short-term subloan portfolio; and (e) INDAP's cash flow problems were
exacerbated by the lack of a Revolving Fund in the Central Bank for subloan
repayments.
5.4   The Incrementality Rule. The Bank has traditionally preferred to finance
long-term investment credit, working capital financing being viewed as a
potentially insatiable drain on its funds. As thinking on credit has evolved in the
Bank, ways have been sought to support working capital lending under controlled
circumstances, and the incrementality rule was devised. Its application, however,
is not always appropriate and in the case of 2481-CH, it was unworkable. It was
essentially a mechanism for making a large, short-term sub-lending component
palatable to management. The emphasis throughout implementation on
stimulating demand missed the essential fact that INDAP was not in a position to
maintain an adequate level of working capital to meet that notional demand:
administrative costs were high as a percentage of its portfolio; its operating
spread was too small to cover those costs; its recoveries, while comparitively high
in Regional terms, were still not high enough to maintain a positive cash flow.
INDAP was technically unable to reach incrementality and on several occasions,
sought removal or waiver of the requirement."8
5.5   The Revolving Fund. An important reason for the shortfall in the flow of
production credit was that the Central Bank did not establish a Revolving Fund.
While the SAR (para. 4.06) foreshadowed the need for INDAP to finance
recurrent, non-incremental, short-term credit needs through loan recoveries and
rollover funds, the SAR failed to mention the matter in its "Agreements Reached
and Recommendations" section and the Loan Agreement did not address the
issue. A substantial part of INDAP's subloan portfolio funded by Bank-
supported credit lines did not revolve. INDAP had to pass on any repayments it
received to the Central Bank. These funds were segregated in Government
accounts used by the CB to repay Bank loans. Thus INDAP continued to lack
sufficient funding to sustain the required increase in its short-term loan portfolio
17.   The new rates were: 4.5% for subsidiary loans, INDAP subloans 8%, and
participating banks 7.5%. INDAP subsequently lowered its long-term
rates to 7% (as permitted by the Loan Agreement) in order to stimulate
demand.
18.   The first request by INDAP (in July 1986) sought a two year waiver of
the requirement.



- 10 -
to obtain Bank loan funds under the incrementality rule. This deficiency was not
recognized by the Bank until 1988.19
5.6   The Bank was reluctant to modify the incrementality requirement and
proposed a variety of alternatives. The Central Bank reviewed and lowered
interest rates in late 1986. This action, combined with a more precise
interpretation of the incrementality formula (INDAP was found to have been
misinterpreting it) were believed by the Bank to be sufficient to stimulate some
movement, but this did not occur. Cancellation of the entire short-term credit
component also began to be discussed but was postponed repeatedly in the hope
demand would recover. The Central Bank was asked to re-design the short-term
financing arrangements, and increase the profit margin for participating
commercial banks, again to stimulate demand, but took no action. The Loan
Agreement (Schedule 1, para. 4 (d)) was amended to increase the size of
subloans not needing Bank approval, to US$400,000 per borrower. Also, a
Revolving Fund was set up in the Central Bank for INDAP subloan repayments.
5.7   In late 1988 the Loan Agreement was amended to re-define (not
eliminate, as requested by the GOC) incrementality under the project.'
Disbursements continued to be sluggish for some time but picked up sharply
from late 1989. The more realistic incrementality formula was an important
factor, along with several others: INDAP's interest rates on short- and long-term
subloans (7.5% and 7.0% respectively) remained stable while market rates began
to rise steadily to more than double INDAP's rates (which nevertheless
continued positive in real terms) by March 1991; more importantly, the change of
Government in early 1990, which brought renewed commitment to small farmer
development evidenced by better budget support for INDAP, expansion of its
programs, and a willingness to address its financial and operational handicaps,
turned the situation around. The loan was almost fully disbursed (with help from
a reallocation of funds between categories) by closing, October 30, 1991.
5.8   The Rural Housing Isue. In mid-1990, a supervision mission found that
some US$1.22 million of Category 1 loan funds (long-term subloans) had been
used by INDAP to finance grant advances for rural housing under the Ministry of
Housing's subsidy program. Once the housing was constructed and verified by
the Ministry, INDAP would be reimbursed by that ministry, and use these funds
to finance its own operating expenses. The Borrower maintained that the
definition of "investment plan" in the Loan Agreement permitted very broad
interpretation; while not disagreeing, the Bank's Legal and Loan departments
19.   The lack of a Revolving Fund was not perceived until 1988, when
supervision missions began to include financial expertise.
20.   Letter, September 23, 1988. Incrementality would be defined in the Loan
Agreement (Schedule I), as the difference between the net amount
available for new lending and the anticipated demand for production
credit in the period. The Bank would reimburse the CB for INDAP's
incremental short-term lending on the basis of SOEs indicating
borrowings of short-term funds by INDAP from the CB. The CB would
monitor INDAP's cash flow performance quarterly and adjust the
expected incrementality for the current quarter to reflect INDAP's actual
deviation from the forecast in the previous quarter.



- 11 -
nevertheless believed grant advances were inconsistent with the definition of a
subloan in the Loan Agreement because the beneficiaries were under no
obligation to repay. These expenditures were therefore deemed ineligible for
financing under the Loan. The Central Bank was asked to either reimburse the
relevant funds or submit a list of eligible expenditures to compensate. INDAP
chose to charge these expenditures to Category 3 short-term subloans, which was
accepted by the Bank.
5.9   Extension. According to supervision reports, few problems were
encountered with the extension services component until 1988/89 when
Government fiscal constraints limited the flow of counterpart funds and the
extension program slowed markedly. In June 1990, US$3.0 million of Category 2
loan funds (production credit) were reallocated to Category 3 (INDAP extension
program). Comment on implementation of INDAP's extension program is
derived mostly from the 1989/90 Agricultural Sector Review, which presented a
detailed critique;" supervision reporting tended to concentrate on the problems
of the credit component.
5.10   Until 1987/88, the Integrated Technology Transfer Program (PTII) saw
only modest growth, reflecting resource limitations and the multi-year nature of
beneficiary participation. While INDAP's main targeted clientele were small
farmers with 0.8-12 BIH (farmers with less than 0.8 BIH being classified as
minifundistas, see SAR para.2.04), the program, as it evolved in the field, tended
to coalesce around small farmers with approximately 7 or 8 BIH up to 12 BIH'
because they proved to be more receptive, had a better resource base, but were
unable to afford private technical assistance without government subsidy. The
emphasis was on the productive and commercial development of participants,
with social development arising as a secondary benefit. Following initiation of
the Government's National Plan for Rural Development in 1986 (INDAP was
given a pivotal role in executing the Plan), the intake from the better-off group
was expanded in 1987/88 to service about 18,600 farmers.
21.   For a full discussion of the INDAP extension program, see
Chile - Sustaining Growth: An Agricultural Sector Review Report
8759-CH, June 29, 1990.
22.   The 8.0 BIH was not a legal or administrative limitation, and smaller
farmers were being serviced. However, as explained by INDAP regional
officials and extension workers to the Bank sector mission in 1989, the
better-off small farmers were perceived (at that time) as more promising
subjects for development. The SAR, Annex 2, para. 4 seems to
foreshadow this when it states: "From 1984 through 1992 agricultural
year, INDAP plans to cover about 50,000 of the small-scale farmers with
between 0.8 and 12.0 irrigated hectare equivalent (i.e., BIH). This would
represent 34% of the farmers in this group and therefore, would cover
most farmers who could be classed as relatively receptive to improved
technology". Further, SAR Annex 5, para. 1 states: "The majority of
lending would be directed to farmers in the main agricultural zone which
lies between 32 degrees and 42 degrees south latitude", i.e., the fertile
Central Valley of Chile, which contains about one-third of the 0-12 BIH
group, on better-endowed plots assigned during the Agrarian Reform.



- 12 -
5.11  In the same year, INDAP launched a parallel program of technical
assistance targeted at the formerly neglected, smaller and poorer segment of the
farming population, generally in the 0-5 BIH range.' Starting out with 6,900
families, the Basic Technology Transfer Program (PTTB) was expanded to 7,000
in 1988/89, 11,070 in 1989/90 and 18,000 by 1991/92. Participants were marginal
producers considered to have inadequate resources to achieve self-sufficiency
from on-farm activities, in many cases even after participation. The program was
modelled on PTTI, but had a strong social orientation, stressing improved quality
of life through the use of resources available on-farm, and simple methods to
improve family diet and hygiene.
5.12  Institutional Impemelts. The computer system to complete INDAP's
electronic data program for credit and loan portfolio administration was
purchased and installed without difficulties. The system was developed in two
modules: (a) financial, including accounting for the central and regional offices,
budget analysis, financial projections, salary processing, asset control, debt control
and servicing, cash flow control and financial reporting; and (b) portfolio
administration, including subloan evaluation, supervision and monitoring, sub-
project implementation, achievements and use of funds, and credit administration
monitoring. In June 1990, US$1.0 million of Category 2 loan funds (short-term
subloans) were re-allocated to Category 4 (technical assistance to INDAP) to
purchase additional equipment and software needed to develop INDAP's Credit
Information System (CREDAP), whose operational readiness became a condition
of effectiveness of Ln. 3473-CH.
5.13  In 1989 a special supervision mission analysed, among other things,
INDAP's financial status which showed a sharp drop in the agency's equity
position due chiefly to increased provision for bad debts remaining from pre-
December 31, 1983, and monetary corrections. INDAP was warned that the
situation could only deteriorate further if it continued to incur non-recoverable
expenses on its technology transfer (TI) and indigenous land titling programs.
The Government (in contravention of the Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (c) and
its own statutes, which called for reimbursement of at least the direct costs of the
rr program) was not reimbursing INDAP, whose accounts receivable had
reached around US$20 million. The problem of INDAP's solvency was addressed
by a new Government more committed to INDAP's programs; simultaneously,
the concepts of graduation and cost recovery were acknowledged as the solution
to sustainability and became the hallmark of the new Bank project with INDAP.
5.14         The Loan Agreement called for a study of the economic and
financial viability, social implications and institutional structure of the Chilean
sugar subsector. This was in response to the Government sugar monopoly
(LANSA) introducing guarantees for sugar beet prices and purchase of total
23.   INDAP's targeting now designates minifundistas as those with 0-5 BIH,
while better-endowed paticipants are in the 6-12 BIH group. Under the
new Small Farmer Services Project (Ln.3472-CH), minifundista
beneficiaries of INDAP's technology transfer program would quadruple
over the life of the loan, to 84,000, while the better-off (ex-P1TI) group
would be graduated rapidly to Phase 2.



- 13 -
production in early 1983, under domestic pressure to stimulate agricultural
production. The study was completed in February 1986 and revealed, inter alia
that IANSA's production costs for beet sugar were the lowest in the world, and
Chile's beet-sugar producers among the world's most efficient. It was concluded
that LANSA's sugar production was not distorting the Chilean economy.
6.    Results
6.1    Project indicators established at appraisal focussed on the financial
performance of INDAP, and did not include a basic list of benchmarks for credit
disbursement, the extension program, productive impact or acquisition of
equipment; further, monitoring and evaluation remained very weak. Based on
the limited information available, the project achieved most of its objectives,
except for planned portfolio control actions (computerized subloan administration
and portfolio management). No economic rate of return was calculated for the
overall project. A summation of project results follows.
6.2    For INDAP's PTTI clients, in the period 1983 (diagnosis) through crop
year 1991/92 the area under annual crops24 rose from around 24,000 ha to peak
at 78,000 in 1988/89, falling back to 53,000 in 1991/92. In the same period, total
value of production of annual crops rose from around US$16.0 million to
US$71.0 million in 1988/89, declining to about US$50.0 million in 1991/92.
These declines reflect several years of drought and recovery, and the shift of
emphasis in INDAP to minifundistas. These results overall are impressive in the
context of INDAP's clientele but whether they represented a "significant impact"
within the generic project objective of increasing production for import
substitution and exports, is not known.
6.3   In the extension component, annual participation averaged 28,833
farmers, rising to 33,900 farmers in 1991 as expansion of the INDAP program
proceeded. The goal of graduating 30,000 clients from the program by the end
of the project (i.e., after 3-4 years' participation) was not feasible; it was found
necessary in practice, to extend many farmers' participation to get the desired
results. Nevertheless, in 1989 and 1990, around 3,550 small farmers with several
years' participation were dropped, but were offered the opportunity to participate
in technical sessions and field days; only 25% of them did so. Expansion of the
extension program after 1989 was made up almost exclusively of minifundistas,
many of whom are, realistically, unlikely to ever become self-sufficient, despite
assistance from INDAP.5
6.4    Available results confirm the success of the INDAP model of technical
assistance under the PlTlI (for better-off farmers in the >12 BIH cohort),
complemented by on-farm credit. Yield data for 1988/89 suggest quite dramatic
improvements in productivity for a range of commodities: yields for wheat, rice,
maize, potatoes, beans, onions, tomatoes and milk sharply exceeded those for
1983, and in all cases exceeded national average yields in the same year. For
example, yields of wheat rose 71%, rice 40%, beans 40% and tomatoes 86% (see
24.    Crops include wheat, rice, maize, potatoes, beans, onions and tomatoes.
25.   The extension program now requires that beneficiaries either graduate to
Phase II or be dropped after 6 years participation in Phase I.



- 14 -
example, yields of wheat rose 71%, rice 40%, beans 40% and tomatoes 86% (see
Part Im, Table 9). There is no information on the productivity of minifundista
participants: the PTTB program was still in its early stages at the time of project
closing; adoption of new techniques tends to occur slowly with this group; and, as
stated previously, systematic monitoring and evaluation was a weak element of
the project.
6.5    No production information is available on the farmers served by the
participating commercial banks, nor is it known if they contracted extension
services as required under the project. This segment of project beneficiaries had
low visibility throughout implementation; references to their performance are
scant in the supervision record, with the exception of auditing issues arising from
the commercial banks' generally poor subloan evaluation and oversight practices.
6.6   Small farmers received about 85,000 subloans from INDAP, rising from a
low of 1,800 per year in 1985 to around 33,000 in 1991. INDAP lent US$38.5
million for some 74,000 short-term production subloans, and US$13.2 million for
around 11,000 investment subloans, representing an average subloan of US$520
for production and US$1,200 for investment. It is not known how many farm
families received subloans; and probably many farmers obtained more than one
subloan. Whether the incrementality provisions were respected is uncertain.
Investment subloans were much smaller than envisaged in the SAR (average of
several farm models) figure of around US$8,000. Evidence suggests this resulted
from: (a) over-estimation at appraisal based on investment subloan performance
under the previous Bank-financed project (Ln.1902-CH, Second Agricultural
Credit Project); (b) incorporation in the INDAP program from 1989 onwards of
much smaller farmers with very modest investment needs (e.g., an ox) and
borrowing capacity; (c) demand for smaller subloans in light of falling world
market prices; (d) liberalization of the US dollar/peso exchange rate causing the
dollar equivalent of peso subloans to fall.'
6.7   Some 242 larger producers and agro-industries (mainly the former), were
financed by the participating commercial banks; investment subloans totalled
US$25.4 million, or an average subloan of US$105,000. Investment in livestock
was less than expected; subloans were used mostly for orchard establishment.
6.8   Institutional results were mixed. On the positive side, INDAP was able,
under the project, to develop an efficient and innovative model of agricultural
extension, one which minimizes public bureaucracy, and which could serve as a
model for other countries. High standards were established for the program:
private consulting firms were required to meet technical and professional criteria
26.   The Borrower's (Central Bank) Completion Report states that investment
subloans were much larger than anticipated at appraisal, and the number
of sub-borrowers fewer, but provides contradictory data. INDAP claims,
however, that investment subloans were much smaller than anticipated for
the reasons given. Both agencies claim that increased technification of
agriculture resulting from INDAP's extension program was a factor which,
by INDAP's calculation, reduced the size of subloans due to greater
efficiencies on-farm and reduced need to borrow, and in the case of the
Central Bank's report, increased the size of subloans due to the need for
greater inputs. This contradiction was not resolved.



- 15 -
to gain entry to INDAP's national registry for tender participation; INDAP
established training programs for in-house staff and the private consultants; and
the quality of the services delivered to small farmers was controlled through the
system of Consultores de Apoyo Tecnico (CAT), set up to monitor the work of
the extension firms. Under the follow-on project (Ln.3473-CH), stronger efforts
have been made to address cost-recovery for extension, and the transparent
formulation of subsidies, in recognition of the unsustainable drain on INDAP's
resources of unrecoverable expenditures.
6.9    On the other hand, the computerized system for subloan administration
and portfolio management did not meet expectations. The Borrower's report
states that the systems acquired were insufficient to produce comprehensive,
compatible data to support better credit administration, and personnel were slow
to adapt to the computerized system.27
6.10 INDAP's Arrears. Under Section 4.04 (b) of the Loan Agreement,
INDAP was to act to prevent its loan portfolio in arrears, excluding any provision
for bad debts existing on December 31, 1983 and any accrued interest, from
exceeding 10% by December 31, 1987 and thereafter. Basically, INDAP was to
collect, provide for or write off bad debts existing at the end of 1983. By
December 31, 1988 the rate of arrears was still 10.8%. The main obstacle was
described as obtaining authorization from the Ministry of Finance to write off
recommended amounts; this was resolved and arrears are shown as having
dropped to 6.2% by end of December 1989.
6.11   However, closer scrutiny of INDAP's accounting methodology during
preparation of 3473-CH revealed that at end-1990 arrears were actually 31%.
Fundamentally, INDAP would set a target for recoveries at the beginning of the
year and if, for argument's sake, 90% of that annual target was collected, arrears
were stated to be 10%. This did not mean that targets were not established with
some rigour, and a majority of subloans were for one year anyway. The problem
was, that the due date of the subloans was not a key factor in the calculation.
This was not picked up during supervision, partly because until 1988 missions did
not include financial expertise; afterwards, the consulting expertise retained may
have been more familiar with public accounting systems in Latin America than
the generally accepted accounting principles which might have provoked a
different set of questions. Safeguards were introduced under the follow-on
project (para. 11.4).
7.    Sustainability
7.1    The project's achievements are expected to be sustained and extended by
Ln.3473-CH. Based on experience with 2481-CH, and the timely sector study of
1989/90 which examined, inter alia, INDAP's overall performance, the objective
of the nce rrejtct is lo stirrtgfhen *-uid consolidate the financial, administrative
and technical base of INDAP's small farmer program. The graduation and cost
27.   This runs counter to an INDAP report of May 1990, cited in a Bank
supervision Aide Memoire of June 1, 1990. The report states that the
component was implemented as planned, that the two systems were
functioning without difficulties, that INDAP personnel were being trained
as envisaged, and that INDAP was obtaining the benefits sought. The
following mission reversed this assessment.



- 16 -
recovery principles underlying extension and credit are important elements in this
strategy.' An issue with longer-term implications for sustainability derives from
the transition from low-input to high-input agriculture, and by inference, credit in
perpetuity to support it. There is the risk that small farmers who have made the
transition cannot borrow forever from INDAP, and commercial banks will not
have taken up the challenge. It remains to be seen if 3473-CH can promote
change.
8.    Institutional Performance
8.1    The Bank. The Bank and Borrower agencies maintained an excellent
working relationship, which carried over smoothly to the new Government,
paving the way for soundly-based expansion of INDAP's programs into the
nineties. Evidence suggests that Bank preparation and supervision (up to mid-
1988), would have benefitted from stronger financial skills. Inclusion of a
financial specialist from 1988 produced a more creative approach to the
credit/disbursement impasse, because the issues (particularly those affecting
INDAP's operations) and options, were better understood.
8.2    The Borrower. The Central Bank was faced with economic pressures
which may have overshadowed the needs of individual projects, but it did show
flexibility and willingness to consult with the Bank and consider solutions to
problems. Auditing, and monitoring and evaluation under the project were not
good and strong recommendations were made by Bank management for
improvement in the follow-on project. The rural housing issue, once examined,
was resolved in an amicable and satisfactory manner. The (previous)
Government's commitment to the project appeared to wane in the later stages;
its preoccupation with upcoming elections at a critical turning point in Chile's
modern history, diverted attention and budget resources away from small farmers.
8.3   INDAP was, throughout the project period, a well-managed institution
committed to its small farmer program; the results bear this out. Its relationship
with the Bank was excellent throughout. Its inability until late in the project
period, to access loan funds for production credit, was largely beyond its control.
New leadership in INDAP following the change of Government in 1989,
acknowledged most of the findings of the Bank's sector study, and committed
itself to putting the institution on a sounder footing, financially, administratively
and technically.
28.   The INDAP agricultural extension program is now divided into three
phases: small farmers, principally minifundistas (now defined as 0-5 BIH)
would enter an intensive Phase I for 3-6 years of mixed group and
individual attention, free of charge. Monitorable indicators would
determine readiness to graduate to Phase II, a fixed three year period of
group-based extension under which the farmer pays 30% of the cost.
Finally, Phase III is a purely voluntary, 100% farmer-paid extension
service focussing on individual problems. This is not, obviously, full cost
recovery throughout, but it is a rational attempt to introduce the concept
and reduce farmer dependence on subsidized programs.



- 17 -
84    The performance of the eight participating commercial banks was
deficient. The impression is gained that they were peripheral to the whole
process, not to mention ambivalent about their participation. Bank supervision
staff reported (and audit reports substantiate) that commercial bank subloans
were not adequately evaluated or supervised, and that these banks could not
provide assurance that the funds were being used for the ends approved.
Supporting documentation for subloans was not well-maintained by the
commercial banks and became a troublesome auditing issue (see para. 9.3).
9.    Consultants. Procurement and Audit
9.1    Cnsultants. Consultant studies prepared at various points during
implementation were well-executed. Similarly, the private contractors employed
by INDAP to deliver its extension program to small farmers were well-trained,
committed professionals. INDAP's procedures for retaining these private firms
sought to maintain high standards, and the added back-up of INDAP's
supervision of contractors' performance (the CAT system) further ensured quality
control.
9.2   Procurement The acquisition of computer systems by INDAP was
essentially trouble free but incurred considerable delays, especially following a
late decision to purchase additional computers which caused the closing date to
be extended to October 31, 1991 to accommodate it. (INDAP requested in 1990
additional computer support for its agricultural investment planning and to
complete its systems for portfolio administration and credit administration
(CREDAP)).
9.3   Audit. The auditing of participating commercial banks encountered
persistent problems, especially concerning SOEs. The external auditors
responsible frequently did not include an analysis of the supporting
documentation for disbursements under the loan. Typical of other problems
encountered: auditors could not locate in many cases, the investment plan upon
which the subloan was based; and, there was usually no system for supervising
implementation of investment plans. In farms checked by auditors, plans had
been only partly implemented, or the endeavour had been abandoned, or the
subloan had been used for something quite different. Other problems affected
each bank variously. It was agreed with the Central Bank that a letter would be
sent to the external auditors informing them of what was required under the
Loan; this was a weak response which came too late in the cycle to have much
impact.
10.   CDvenant Complianoe
10.1  Compliance with project legal conditions was satisfactory with the
exception of auditing requirements, which incurred delays and problems
(previous para.), and portfolio arrears reduction (paras. 6.10-6.11).



- 18 -
11.   Fmdin=s and Lessons
11.1  The main findings and lessons of this project have already been reflected
in new operations in Chile (actual and proposed) and have also been factored
into the discussion and design of agricultural projects (especially credit) in other
parts of the Region. The need for administrative and accounting discipline in
INDAP's credit operations, especially to obtain better data on arrears, better
internal controls on the credit cycle, and a mechanism for the transparent
formulation of subsidies, had a major influence in shaping the Small Farmer
Services Project and generically, in establishing the idea that public credit
intermediaries can and should be disciplined lenders. The project confirmed the
feasibility and effectiveness of private sector delivery of extension services,
(although this does not imply that the Chilean model can simply be transplanted
elsewhere in the Region). Greater effort was found to be needed in developing
tailored research for small farmers (technologies adapted to regional and micro-
regional conditions); "mainstream" technology, scaled down, could not be assumed
to fit their circumstances. Further, the project confirmed that the packaging of
extension with credit promoted adoption of new technology, improving
productivity. Finally, the project demonstrated how long it takes to improve an
institution, and the kind of environment needed. INDAP can be considered a
success by most measures but it took several loans.
11.2  The most important lessons were:
(a)   Cost recovery and graduation should be the principles underlying
any publicly-funded extension and/or credit program and are the
basis for their sustainability. This project took tentative steps to
introduce both;
(b)   Monitoring and evaluation is essential, not only for gauging
whether implementation is on schedule, but also if substantial
progress is being made; it is essential for _ pst evaluation and
for determining whether the right things have been done;
similarly, preparation should establish and supervision maintain, a
comprehensive set of basic indicators;
(c)   The issue of land titling emerges repeatedly in agricultural credit
operations (it remained an unrecognized constraint in this project)
and should always be examined during preparation as a potential
obstacle to sublending/disbursement;
(d)   Supervision missions must contain expertise appropriate to the
project design and main issues; and,
(e)   Attempts to pursuade small farmers to make the transition from
low input farming to sustainable high input farming should be
accompanied by a strategy for ensuring the flow of credit to them
over the longer-term.
11.3  The Small Farmer Services Project (3473-CH) has been mentioned
several times but some additional comment seems relevant. The project diverges
conceptually from its predecessors (in Chile and elsewhere) in key respects.
Openly acknowledging the targeting principle, it demands that both the targeted



- 19 -
group and the public intermediary (INDAP) perform better. Individual subloan
parameters are downsized on the assumption that the targeted group has multiple
sources of income. The project has moved away from commercial bank
participation because it wants and needs to reduce subloan size. The graduation
idea entails developing criteria which discriminate better borrowers within the
target group, as potential clients of the commercial banks, while simultaneously
laying the groundwork (credit histories, studies, pilot testing of options) for their
acceptance by that market.' Extension services are also based on the
graduation principle (see footnote 29); Government resources are finite and
participation in the program cannot be indefinite if others are to have a chance.
11.4  To correct deficiencies in INDAP's management of its credit operations
and portfolio revealed under 2481-CH, 3473-CH requires INDAP to implement a
demanding set of actions: a computerized Credit Information System
(CREDAP);3 risk classification of clients through the national DICOM network
on defaults; credit administration training for field and central personnel; late-
notice distribution and debt collection through contracted firms; portfolio
managers in each area office; and stronger linkage between the extension and
credit programs.
11.5   As a final comment on 2481-CH, the issue of credit for the rural poor is
more complex than the incrementality approach suggests. The 'prohibition" of
the early eighties on working capital financing is not generally applicable. There
are better ways of justifying short-term lending to the very poor, and ways of
managing it in the small farm subsector. What matters for small farmers is access
to credit. At the level of subloans of US$500-1,000 (or frequently less), it is
difficult to distinguish between a short-term production/consumption subloan and
an investment subloan. The real issue is taking on debt to survive, and hopefully,
prosper.
29.   Bank financing of the credit component was dropped at negotiations at
the Government's request, but the loan was made contingent upon
specific actions by INDAP to discipline its credit portfolio management.
30.   CREDAP was actually developed in the late stages of 2481-CH using
funds re-allocated from Category 2 short-term credit, and was operational
(in limited form) prior to the effectiveness of 3473-CH.



- 20 -
PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
CBHE
(Loan 2481t
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE1'
V    A draft PCR (Part 1) was sent to the Borrower. The Borrower's response dated June 21,
1993 corrected two numbers in the text, but contained no comment on the PCR
content/conclusions. The faxed letter is held with project correspondence In IAC Files.



- 21 -
CH1LE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND CREDIT PROJECr
(LDan 2481-CH)
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans
YEAR
LOAN NO.   TrrlIEURPOSE                                         APPROVED   STATUS   COMMENTS
0006            Agricultural Machinery Proiect.                 1948             Closed       US$19.0 m.
Agricultural Mecanization.                   l
0049            Rio Elqui Groundwater Resources Proiect.        1951             Closed       US$1.3 m.
Water resource evaluation.
0366            Livestock Development Proiect.                  1963             Closed       US$19.0 m.
Extensive pasture improvement, and on-farm
construction, machinery and livestock.
0367            Milk and Meat Processine Proiect.               1967             Closed       US$5.0 m.
Modernizationa and acpansion of meat and milk
processing industry.
1119, 1350, &    Agricultural Rehabilitation Proiect.           1975             Closed       US$20.0 m.
1902            Livestock. Fruits. Vineyards and Agroindustry   1976             Closed       US$25.0 m.
Credit Proiect.
Second Agricultural Credit Proiect.            1980              Closed       US$34.7 m.
Credit for agricultural rehabilitation and on-farm
investment in post-agrarian reform period.
3473            Small Farmer Services Proiect                   1992             Ongoing      US$96.0 m.
Technology transfer.                                                          No major
implementation
problems.



- 22 -
Table 2. Project Timetable
I T EM                       DATE PLANNED                  RBVISE) DATE                  ACTIUAL
Identification                                                                           September, 1982
Preparation                                                                              November, 1982
Appraial                                                                                 February, 1984
Loan Negotiation                                                                         November 1, 1984
Board Approval                                                                           December 20, 1984
Signature                                                                                December 21, 1984
Effectiveness                March 21, 1985                                              August 21, 1985
Project Completion           March 31, 1990                                              October 30, 1991
Loan Closing                 March 31, 1990                April 30, 1991                October 30, 1991
October 30, 1991
Table 3. Loan Disbursement '
FISCAL YEAR           1984       1985      1986       1987       1988      1989       1990       1991      1992
Appraisal Estimate                            8.9       19.5       34.2      47.0       56.0
Actual                                        4.13       9.75      18.75     29.75      40.33     49.09       55.81
Actual as % of                               46.4       50.0       55.0      63.3       72.0       88.0       99.6
Estimate
!W       Cumulative
Source: IBRD Statement of Loans



- 23 -
Table 4. Project Implementation
Comments
1.    Performance indicators established for the project related to: (a) reduction of INDAP's
portfolio in arrears to 13% by December 31, 1985 and to 10% by December 31, 1987; (b)
financial indicators of INDAP's operations (see SAR, Annex 3, Table 1); and (c)
maintenance of INDAP's debt/equity ratio at 3:1 or below (see SAR, para. 2.17).
2.    With regard to (a), the arrears issue is discussed in Part I, paras. 6.10-6.11. Concerning
(b), financial indicators of INDAP's operations were not maintained systematically.
Further, much of the miscellaneous financial data gathered during missions cannot be
retrieved from the PIIF system due to faulty recordkeeping and the likelihood that
documents assigned to the PIIF (according to the Log Sheets), never arrived. Lastly, for
(c), INDAP was able to maintain its debt/equity ratio at or below the limit, but this
required vigilance on the part of Bank staff.



- 24 -
Table 5. Project Cost and Financing
A      ect Costs (US$'OOO)
IT B UALM  Flr p                             TOTAL         LoCalS       Foscip        TOTAL
1. Investment Subloans         21,600       21,600       42,000     18,4989      18498.7       36,997.6
2. Short-Term Subhon           20,400       20,400       40,800     19,23935    19,223.8       38,463.3
3. Technology Transfer Y        14,000      14,000       28,000     16,983.2     17,115.8      34,099.0
4. Technical Asistancc                         _- --                                 2.1            2.1
5. Equipment                       _                                  812.0        812.0        1,624.0
6. Front End Fee                                            _                       _ ----
TOTAL               56,0        56,000      112,000     55,533.6     55,652.4     111,186.0
Notc    The above table is a reconstructed version of Table 4.2 in the SAR designed to fit the nature and format of end-of-project
data provided by the Borrower (Central Bank).
a/      Does not incdude planned subloan beneficiary contribution of US$45.2 million.
Technology Transfer item (as planned) indudes costs for technical assistance and purchase of computer for INDAP. The
US$28.0 million was mostly for the subsidy element of the technology transfer program. The Bank/INDAP split was
50%150%.
Borrower did not provide data on beneficiary contribution.
B. Project Fd    ancina (USS'OOO)
SOURCE
LOCl         FosEWp       TOTAL          Local1y       Forgp         TOTAL
IBRD                                --         56,000        56,000           ---        55,652        55,652
Government/Central Bank          56,000           -          56,000        55,533           ---        55,533
Farmeru/Agroindustrialists       45,200           -          45,200         N/A                            --
TOTAL                101,200        56,000       157,200        55,533        55,652        111,185
3/      Data on beneficaxy contribution was not provided by the Borrower.



- 25 -
Table 6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
1. YnED PROFILES UNDER PIM
1983          l9ss/9        %          19x8/1969
IeMe   Nalm Aw
Commodity        Unit       B-mine (A)y        (B)y      (B)1(A)         (C)3          (B)/(C)
Wheat          ton/ha        7.12              3.63       71             3.20             1.31
Rice           ton/ha         3.42             4.80       40             3.77            1.27
Maize          ton/ha         4.96             6.70       35             5.30            1.26
Potatoes       ton/ba        16.05            18.87       18            14.81            1.27
Beans          ton/ha         1.12             1.57       40             1.15            1.37
Onions         ton/ha        24.66            34.66       41            33.19            1.04
Tomatoes       ton/ba        26.64            4958        86              N/A
Milk          '000 Itj        1.73             2.02       17             1.90            1.06
lactation
1/ Source    INDAP
Sourc      Direccidn de Estudios y Presupuestos de] Ministerio de Agricultura (DEP).
2 AGRICULTIIAL EXTENSION
Annual Participation (Appraisal estimates): >30,000
Actual Participation (Average)        28,B33
Peak Participation (1991)             33,900
Graduation (Appraisal estimates)      30,000
Actual Graduation                      3,550
3 AGRICULTURAL CREaTr
Subloans from INDAP (Appaisal estimates)          155,000
Total Subloans (INDAP)                            196,693
- Short-Term                                     180,608
- Investment                                       16,085
No. Beneficaries (INDAP)                           88,000  (56%)
Subkans from Commercial Banks (Appraisal)            N/A
Actual Commercial Subloans                           242
Average Size of Commerial Subloans            US$105,000
NOTE   Monitoring and cvaluation under this project wu deficient, while the limited basic indicators establhshed (chiefly INDAP's
financial performance) do not appear to have been maintained. The file indicates that much information gathered on
mision was sent to the PIIF, but much of it was not retrievable due to inadequate file management (coding of documents,
etc.)



- 26 -
B. Economic Impact
No Economic Rate of Return was calculated for the project in the SAR. An exercise to re-
calculate returns on several of the original models was considered, but data was insufficient to
produce a meaningful result.
C. Studies
rEEm                PXRUROSE                    STATUS .D. ACr
Study of the    To determine its economic     Completed on            Study revealed that IANSA's
Chilean sugar    and financial viability, social    February, 1986.   production costs for beet
subsector       implications and institutional                        sugar were the world's
structure.                                           lowest, and Chilean
producem among the world's
most efficient. It was
concluded that LANSA's
sugar production was not
distorting the Chilean
economy



- 27 -
Table 7. Status of Covenuits
Loan Agreement                  Summarized
Section                      Covenant                      Status
2.02 (b)              Central Bank, as financiaL                Complied.
agent of the Borrower, to                Special Account established in
establish and maintain in                September 1985.
dollars a SpeciaL Account.
3.04                  Not Later than January 1986               Complied.
and thereafter, at the request            First review compLeted in
of the Bank, the Borrower to:            December 1986.  Interest rates
(i) review interest rates                on subsidiary loans lowered to
appLicabLe; (ii) exchange                4.5%; rates for short- and
views with the Bank on the                Long-term subloans Lowered to
results of such review; (iii)            8% and 7.5% respectiveLy, to
if necessary, adjust rates to            conpete with other credit
Levels acceptable to the Bank.           lines and stimuLate demand.
Rates positive. Reviewed
again in 1987 but no changes
made.
4.02 (c) (i) and    Central Bank to have the                    CompLied.
(iii) ?               Special and Project Accounts
audited for each fiscal year;
audits to be submitted to the
Bank not later than six months
after the end of such year.
4.02 (c) (iii)        Central Bank to furnish to the            Complied.
Bank monthly certified                   Certified statements sent
statements of the Special                monthLy.
Account.
4.03 (a)              Borrower to cause INDAP to                Comptied, with some delays.
have its accounts and
financial statements for each
fiscal year audited, and
provide the Bank an audit
report not Later than six
months after the end of such
year.
4.04 (a) (i)          INDAP to maintain separate                CompLied.
accounts and records of its               Separate accounts maintained.
loan portfolio in arrears on
December 31, 1983.
4.04 (a) Ciii)        INDAP to send to the Bank not             CompLied.
later than August 31, 1985 and
every six months thereafter a
report on the progress of
collection or write-off of
loans in arrears.
4.04 (b) (i)          INDAP to prevent its Loan                 Cooplied.
portfolio in arrears,
excluding any accrued interest
and provisions for bad debts
existing on December 31, 1983,
from exceeding 13% by December
31, 1985; 11% by December
1986; and 10% by December 1987
and thereafter.



- 28 -
Loan Agreement                 Summarized
Section                      Covenant                     Status
4.06 (a)              Borrower, by April 10, 1985,              CompLied.
and every year thereafter, to:
(i) review the level of
effective protection on sugar,
wheat and edibLe oils; (ii)
exchange views with the Bank
on the concLusions of such
review; and (iii) If
necessary, put into effect
measures to reduce
progressively the level of
such protection.
4.06 (b)              Not Later than June 30, 1986:             Study compLeted in February
(i) carry out a study on the              1986.  ReveaLed that IANSA's
economic and financiaL                    production costs for beet-
viabiLity, sociaL                         sugar were the Lowest in the
implications, and                        world.
institutional structure of the
sugar sub-sector; and (ii)
exchange views with the Bank
on the recommendations of such
study.
Schedule 4,           Participating financial                   Not in compliance.
Para. 5               institutions to maintain                  Supporting documentation for
separate accounts.                       SOEs inadequate.  Auditors
asked in 1989 to verify more
rigorousLy for the future, but
performance unsatisfactory
again in 1990.



Table 8 Use of Bank Resources
A. Sff Insts
STAGE OF                                            FISCAL YEAR
PROJECr
CYCL            82       83       84      85      86      87      88       89       90      91      92      TOTAL
To Appraisal        2.5     46.8      6.8                                                                           56.1
Appraisal through                    46.1    13.2                                                                   59.3
Board Approval            I_I
Supervision                                    1.1     5.7     8.8     9.3      7.4     8.2    8.0       .1         48.6
2.5     46.8    52.9    14.3      5.7    8.8      9.3      7.4      8.2    8.0      .1        164.0
Source MIS
B. Missions
Special          P eforlmae Ratingabt          y   of Pmb        | 
Stage Of Prject CYe         Mouth/Year      No. of P e c        Days in Fdid    Repvmatad d_
Through Appraisal           9/82            1                   5               Ec                ---
11,82           1                   5               Ec--
2/84            3                   21              Ec, Ag, Fin       ---_---
Through Effectiveness       6/85            1                   5               Fm                1 -
Supervision                 6/86            1                   14              Ag                1                           F
10/86           1                   19              Ag                2                           F
6/87            1                   10              Ag                2                           F
1/88            2                   7               Ag, Fin           2                           F
5/89            1                   12              Ag Y              2                           F
5/90            1                   10              Ag!d              2                           F
4/91            1                   2               Ag                2                            F
I  Ec = Economist; Ag = Agriclturalist; Fin  Financial Economist
1 = Minor Problems; 2 = Moderate Problems; 3 = Major Problems
cI  F - Fmancial (In this case, signifies major disbursement lags and in the final 1-2 yeaS significant auditing problems)
y Does not incude consultants
eI Mission also contained financial specalist (Consultant)












CHILE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
-OT I!o81   1                                         IwtiazIuAL tT    I TAItII
T IOOIOUE "I                                                              {I 2                5 _           25 _
ANTOFAGASTA /
It~~~~~~~~?t
! ,
ffrwestedtol                '20e         it            itI 
t A SERENA                 L/         14 _            14
F t., I.bl                   ...                                .      , 111 9      ^      LVV9ANt S   SANTIAGO  i3  359 _
s9oflower;taitl +    j1tetr&6et    AI   215!   1051 f                 0 NANCAGUA
-nitr herv rul ........... *Ifl. *h,                                                                                   is Hw.
Cul A   a1It~ALCA
_                           C 9 L L A94 -----1'N                    3 5' _        1319__
T.....       i .9 I' ll
,t ..                                                                         No~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  A DVAtitll-
______________          _________           __________ITO     SONT    T
.AR                                    6 N28654
D   9  2o0 I  _ 40  19  Go u9



