                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 35614

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (FSLT-70500)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                                 FOR A

                              HUMAN CAPITAL PROTECTION PROJECT




                                           September 30, 2006




Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and The Caribbean Regional Office

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective September 2006)

                                   Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (COP)
                                      2,400 COP = US$ 1
                                  US$ 0,0004166 = COP 1

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1 -    December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CCT            Conditional Cash Transfers
COC            Citizen Oversight Committees
DAPR-FIP       Administrative Department of the President's office in charge of the Investment Fund for
               Peace Departamento Administrativo de la Presidencia de la República - Agencia
Presidencial
               para la Acción Social y la Cooperación Internacional - Fondo de Inversión para la Paz)
DNP            Department of National Planning/Departamento Nacional de Planeación
DO             Development Objective
EM             Municipal Liaisons/Enlace Municipal
FM             Financial Management
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
ICBF           Colombian Institute of Family Welfare/Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar
IE             Impact Evaluation
IDB            Inter-american Development Bank
IMF            International Monetary Fund
ISR            Information Supervision Report
GOC            Government of Colombia
MIS            Management Information System
MOE            Ministry of Education
MSP            Ministry of Social Protection
NCU            National Coordinating Unit
DNP            Department of National Planning/Departamento Nacional de Planeación
OM             Operational Manual
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PATH           Program for Advancement through Health and Education (Jamaica)
PMR            Project Management Report
PSR            Project Supervision Report
RAS            Social Safety Net (Red de Apoyo Social)
SISBEN         Beneficiary Selection System/Sistema de Selección de Beneficiarios Programas Sociales
SSNA           Social Safety Net Assessment


                                  Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                              Country Director:       Isabel M. Guerrero
                                Sector Manager:       Evangeline Javier
                             Task Team Leader:        Andrea Vermehren

                                         COLOMBIA
                                  Human Capital Protection


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
Annex 8. Borrower's Comments                                                     33
Annex 9.Implementation Arrangements                                              37

Project ID: P069964                                                  Project Name: Human Capital Protection
Team Leader: Andrea Vermehren                                        TL Unit: LCSHS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 25, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Human Capital Protection                                 L/C/TF Number: FSLT-70500
   Country/Department: COLOMBIA                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (86%); Central government administration (14%)
                  Theme: Social safety nets (P); Social risk mitigation (P); Education for all (S); Child health (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/16/2000                                     Effective: 07/31/2000                11/09/2001
     Appraisal: 01/16/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 03/29/2001                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 11/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA/DAPR-FIP; GOVERNMENT OF
                                           COLOMBIA/OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENCY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David De Ferranti
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                 Helena Ribe                                    Ana Maria Arriagada
Team Leader at ICR:             Andrea Vermehren                               Vicente B. Paqueo
ICR Primary Author:             Karla J. McEvoy; Tarsicio
                                Castaneda


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
    The Colombia Human Capital Protection Project sought to alleviate the impact of Colombia's then
    current economic crisis on the most vulnerable by protecting and promoting poor children's human
    capital. This would be accomplished by supporting poor families' investment in their 0-17 year old
    children's health, nutrition and education in the face of sharply reduced incomes. To this effect, the
    Project would support Familias en Acción (Families in Action), the family assistance program of the
    Government of Colombia's (GOC) new Red de Apoyo Social (RAS) safety net strategy.

3.2 Revised Objective:
    Not applicable.

3.3 Original Components:
    The Project consisted of the following six components:

    (1) The first component (US$48.86 million) financed Education Grants. These were scholarships for
    children aged 7-17 years old belonging to families with SISBEN 1 classification (see Section 3.5 for a
    discussion of SISBEN categories). Beneficiary families would receive the education grant during the
    duration of the Project as long as they were enrolled in primary or secondary schools, maintained a
    class attendance rate of at least 80 percent, and did not repeat a grade more than once. Each education
    beneficiary would receive a monthly stipend per eligible child amounting to US$6 per month for
    primary (grades 2-5) and US$12 per month for secondary school students (grades 6-11). These
    amounts were estimated to be equivalent to households' average direct education expenditures. This
    component also financed the direct costs charged by financial institutions (banks) in Colombia to
    deliver the education grants to poor families, amounting to approximately US$1.6 million (3 percent of
    the total amount allocated for the education grants). These direct costs were financed under the Bank
    loan.

    (2) The second component (US$74.10 million) financed Health/Nutrition Grants. These conditional
    cash grants went to SISBEN 1 families with children 0-6 years old, who were not beneficiaries of the
    community day care program "Hogares Comunitarios de Bienestar" which is offered mostly in urban
    areas by the Colombian Institute of Family Welfare (ICBF - Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar
    Familiar). Eligible families would receive the grant as long as they complied with agreed health clinic
    visits for regular growth monitoring and immunization, as established by the GOC's health regulations.
    To avoid incentives to fertility and recognizing the economies of scale in families' food consumption,
    the health/nutrition grant was set at US$20 per month per eligible family regardless of the number of
    children. The grant of US$20 was estimated to be equal to the gap between the cost of a basic food
    basket and the average income of indigent families. This component also included the direct costs
    charged by financial institutions (banks) in Colombia, as noted in paragraph (1) above.

    (3) The Project Management component (US$13.78 million) would finance the operational activities
    of the National Coordinating Unit (NCU), located within the Office of the Presidency, Office of Peace
    and Reconciliation (DAPR-FIP). This included the hiring of qualified staff and the provision of
   appropriate office space and equipment.

   (4) The Monitoring and Evaluation component (US$1.63 million) was designed to finance the
    external review ("spot checks", audits, etc.) and evaluation of the performance and impact of the
    project.



                                                     - 2 -

   (5) The Promotion and Dissemination component (US$3.32 million) would finance public relation
    and information campaign activities, which would be carried out through television, radio, and print
    media. Consultants would be hired for six months to design and carry out these activities. They would
    also develop and organize national and local workshops for technical and administrative staff and other
    program stakeholders (e.g. mayors).

    (6)   The Health, Education, and Nutrition Services Delivery component (no Bank financing)
    consisted of education, health and nutrition services provided by the respective public institutions to
    beneficiaries in the participating municipalities. The amount of US$206.25 million was recognized by
    the Bank as an in-kind contribution from the national and local governments in Colombia. It included
    the funding of vaccinations, teacher salaries, and public education campaigns, among other items.

    There was also an unallocated amount of US$8.31 million, which was put in place to account for the
    uncertainty in the relative proportion of uptake of health and education grants.

3.4 Revised Components:
    Not applicable.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
    The quality at entry is rated Satisfactory. At the time of Project identification, Colombia experienced
    its largest recession in 70 years, with Gross Domestic Product (GDP) falling 4.3 percent in 1999,
    causing unemployment rates to double (reaching 20 percent in urban areas the same year), and poverty
    rates to increase by four percentage points (Colombia Social Safety Net Assessment, 2002). Yet, the
    country's weak social protection system was not able to manage the severe social crisis: social
    insurance was limited to the wealthier, and social assistance programs lacked coverage, institutional
    flexibility and information about their impact on the poor. In addition, with the onset of the 1999
    recession came an intensification of Colombia's internal conflict, causing the displacement of thousands
    of families, and a general increase in violence and insecurity (Colombia Social Safety Net Assessment,
    2002).

    In response to this situation, the GOC, in keeping with its Stand-by Agreement with the International
    Monetary Fund (IMF), adopted a two-pronged strategy for mitigating the negative effects of the crisis:
                            1/


    first, the GOC implemented fiscal adjustments and economic reforms to achieve stability and
    sustainable growth. Second, the GOC established a Social Safety Net (henceforth referred to by its
    Spanish acronym RAS - Red de Apoyo Social) to cushion the impact of the economic recession on the
    poor and vulnerable population and promote the establishment of peace in the country. The RAS
    complemented the objectives and social policies established in the National Development Plan
    1999-2002 and included three programs: (i) Familias en Acción (the Project), a conditional cash
    transfer program for poor families that would give cash assistance to those who kept their children in
    school and provided them with basic preventive health care, mostly in rural areas, (ii) Empleo en
    Acción, a community works program called to provide temporary employment to poor, unemployed
    and unskilled workers mostly in urban areas; and (iii) Jóvenes en Acción, a training/apprenticeship
    program for young adults provided by private sector training institutions that were selected through a
    competitive bidding process.

    The RAS was designed by the National Planning Department (NPD) based on similar programs tested
    elsewhere in Latin America (Chile, Mexico, Argentina, etc.) and implemented by the Administrative
    Department under the Office of the President, through the Peace Investment Fund (DAPR-FIP). The


                                                     - 3 -

World Bank (Bank) and the GOC financed the Project and Empleo en Acción through two separate
operations and loans: the former through Loan 7050-CO and the latter through Loan 7017-CO. The
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) provided parallel financing to all three programs of the RAS
through a single loan (Loan number 1280/OC-CO).

The Familias en Acción program, financed under the Project, exceeded initial expectations in providing
a much needed effective support for extremely poor families, thus becoming the star performer among
the three RAS programs. Results from the program's experimental impact evaluation show significant
improvements of children's food consumption (reducing chronic malnutrition by approximately ten
percentage points) and immunization rates, as well as school attendance (particularly in secondary
school). In addition, it had unexpected positive impacts on child labor, women's empowerment, and
service delivery improvements for the poorest. Based on the proven results and success of this
program, many countries in the region and beyond have been adopting similar mechanisms to improve
human capital development of the poorest segments of their population.

In recognizing the benefits of the program for the country's human development, the Government made
a decision in 2005 to establish the Familias en Acción program as the centerpiece of the country's
social safety net, and expand it to more than a million families by 2008, including expansion to difficult
to serve populations such as displaced families, families that live in areas that had recently been
"recovered" from the conflict, and other special target groups.

Quality at Entry of the Project has been assessed along the following design dimensions:

Strategic relevance and importance. The Project fit squarely within the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Colombia, as described in the November 1999 CAS Progress Report which
emphasized the need "to support the Government's effort to ameliorate the social impact of the current
economic crisis on the poor." The CAS specifically mentioned two lending operations being prepared
to immediately strengthen and expand the social safety net framework in Colombia, one of which was a
public works program (which then became the Empleo en Acción program), and the other was the
Familias en Acción conditional cash transfers (CCT) program supported under the Project.

The choice of the Familias program as one of the GOC's responses to the crisis was a result of the
solid analytical work undertaken by the Bank and GOC teams. This included a Social Safety Net
Assessment (SSNA --the final version of which was completed in 2002; however, the results of the
analysis were available well before this date), as well as a social sector review and a Poverty
Assessment Update to which the Bank Project team contributed significantly. The importance of the
SSNA in the Bank's response to the GOC cannot be overestimated. This strategic study with clear
messages contributed to the GOC's appreciation of the importance of a coherent social protection
framework, towards which the creation of the Ministry of Social Protection (MSP) in 2003 was a first
step, and to a revision of the Beneficiary Selection System (Sistema de Selección de Beneficiarios--
SISBEN) targeting mechanism starting in 2003 as well. It was also a key input into the Policy Notes
prepared for presidential candidates' teams in 2002.

Client orientation. The Bank's overall response to the GOC's request for assistance in mitigating the
economic crisis' impact on the poor was immediate. A cross-sectoral Bank team of highly qualified and
experienced staff and consultants was put together to inspire the dialogue on strengthening the
country's social safety net, offering technical expertise on social protection policies and programs that
were considered at the time by the Government. As a first step, the Bank team secured a Japanese grant
(PHRD), which financed important technical studies, as well as the formation of the NCU for the


                                                 - 4 -

Familias program. Based on this, GOC and the Bank undertook the aforementioned SSNA, which has
been key in initiating the stunning evolution of social protection in the country, and which provided the
analytical underpinning for the choice of safety net programs to be implemented by the RAS. The
GOC reported as very helpful that the Bank team composition remained the same throughout
preparation and the first year of implementation.

Technical, financial, and economic aspects. The Familias en Acción program started as a pilot in 22
municipalities over seven months in 2001, eventually expanding to 90 and by loan closing in November
2005, it was active in 672 municipalities. During project preparation, an effective targeting mechanism
was developed for the Familias program, which consisted of a combination of geographic targeting (at
the municipal level) and a proxy means test (at the household level). The geographic targeting was
based on four criteria: (i) having access to basic education; (ii) the presence of at least one bank; (iii)
not having more than 100,000 inhabitants and not being the capital of a regional district or located in
the Coffee region (this basically means "rural"); and (iv) that local authorities register their
municipality and provide necessary documents including a list of SISBEN 1 beneficiaries. Colombia's
SISBEN is a six-level welfare indicator designed to target social programs at the household level, with
SISBEN Level 1 representing extreme poor households. Once the program has reached an agreement of
participation with municipalities, families within the targeted municipalities are selected according to
their score on the SISBEN proxy means test. All households that belong to SISBEN Level I and who
have children under the age of 18 are eligible under the Familias program. SISBEN I households
roughly correspond to the poorest 17 percent of the population.

Grant payments were made to mothers, in principle on a bi-monthly basis through the country's
banking system in pesos, and the amount was calculated in US dollars to maintain the real value of the
peso-denominated grant over the period of program implementation2. The selection of grant
                                                                              /


beneficiaries and the verification of the compliance with education and health/nutrition conditions was
carried out in accordance with procedures and criteria established in the Operations Manual (OM), the
completion of which was a condition of loan effectiveness. During project preparation, the Bank team
prepared an economic analysis of the Familias project, the first of its kind for a CCT program.

Institutional aspects, implementation and monitoring and evaluation arrangements.
Institutional. The DNP was in charge of the design of the Familias en Acción program. Based on a
study tour of the Mexico Oportunidades program, the NPD team developed an operational manual for
the Familias program which guided its implementation.

During preparation, several options for its institutional home were considered and discussed broadly,
including the ICBF, a line ministry, or the Presidency. The GOC decided to place the program under
the Office of the President given its extensive experience in and a mandate to implement crisis related
social programs (related programs were the Red de Solidaridad created in the early 1990s, as well as
other peace related programs). In practice, this choice allowed the Familias program to quickly set up
its basic implementation structure and management systems, and make creative use of existing private
and public sector institutions (banks and other private sector firms, municipal governments, ICBF) to
efficiently and swiftly start the implementation of the program, following World Bank and IDB
procurement guidelines.

Implementation. Familia's implementation arrangements fit perfectly into Colombia's decentralized
governing structure, including a central coordinating unit in the Presidency, regional coordinators at the
departmental level, and liaison officers (Enlace Municipal) as part of the local government structure



                                                 - 5 -

that play a key role in the program's operation. In addition, "leader mothers" were selected by
beneficiary groups that would represent their interests at the municipal level. Finally, private sector
firms were employed to carry out parts of the administration (payments, compliance verification) of the
program (for more details, see Section 7.6)

Monitoring and evaluation. The program also put in place a comprehensive control, monitoring and
evaluation system, which involves internal and external audits, operational audits/spot checks, an MIS,
citizen oversight (veeduria social), effective claims and complaints procedures, as well as an impact
evaluation. A recent regional review of the program's control and accountability mechanisms showed
that the program is exemplary in its design and management of the system (for more details, see
Section 7.6 and Annex 7).

Fiduciary aspects. As the largest share of the Bank's loan financed transfers, little procurement of
goods and services was expected. A procurement assessment was carried out during project appraisal,
at which time the program was found to meet the Bank's procurement management requirements,
although initially it was missing the computerized modules to carry out the procurement processes
which were then quickly established. The elaboration of a Procurement Manual was a condition of
effectiveness. Thereafter, regular ex-post procurement reviews were carried out, with the last one in
March 2006 revealing no issues.

During project preparation, the Bank's financial management (FM) specialist confirmed that the NCU
capacity met the Bank's minimum standard to implement the project, and recommended the
establishment of an integrated financial management/accounting system, that would produce quarterly
Project Management Reports (PMRs). These recommendations became conditions for loan
effectiveness and were complied with. The PMRs were in fact prepared and delivered quarterly,
although the Project was not deemed eligible for PMR-based disbursement, due to the system's inability
at appraisal to monitor output indicators. Regular financial management reviews were conducted
throughout project implementation and were helped by the fact that the Bank's FM specialist was
located in the local office.

Poverty, gender, and social assessment. The Familias program is targeted to SISBEN 1 beneficiaries
only. Its primary beneficiaries are children, youth and their mothers since payments are made to the
latter. As shown by the results of the impact evaluation, it is highly poverty focused and education and
empowered women beyond initial expectations.

The Familias program was not designed to specifically target indigenous groups, given that they
benefit from other Government programs specifically targeted to them. It was agreed during
preparation that the program would monitor access of indigenous groups through its MIS and would
prepare a study at the conclusion of the project on options for adapting Familias to populations not
covered by the CCT program, if needed. It turned out to be impossible to track the ethnic origin of
participating families given the cultural sensitivities surrounding the topic (implementers advised that it
would have been inappropriate to ask applicants for their ethnicity). However, the program monitored
program indicators by region which provides an approximation to ethnic origins. In addition, a study
was carried out towards the end of project implementation to assess how the Familias program had
worked for different ethnic groups. The study was used, among others, to inform the design of the
follow on operation (Social Safety Net project ­ Loan Number 73370).

Risk assessment and management.Overall, the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) assessed the
project risks appropriately. The PAD notes the possibility that uptake could be weak if the subsidy


                                                  - 6 -

    proved to be too low. Uptake initially was low, not because of the size of the subsidy but because
    during the pilot it was found that the SISBEN targeting system had not been properly maintained and
    therefore, there were fewer beneficiaries with valid SISBEN records than expected. The problem was
    detected during the pilot phase and therefore the GOC was able to respond accordingly by expanding
    the program to more municipalities to meet project coverage targets, while reforming the SISBEN.
    Other risks noted were:

    ·   The possible diversion of grant money to luxury products: the impact evaluation showed an
    increase in basic consumer goods between 15 and 19 percent, principally of food goods, shoes, clothes,
    school books, and transportation to schools. There was no increase detected in consumption of alcohol,
    cigarettes, or adult clothing.
    ·   Possible low compliance with conditions: compliance has been high at over 90 percent, and the
    compliance verification process has worked well, as indicated by spot check reports.
    ·   Insufficient supply of health and education services: the Familias team has worked closely with
    municipalities to ascertain their readiness to enter the program, and to assist them in assessing supply
    requirements necessary to enter. In isolated cases where supply was not sufficient, the program was
    suspended temporarily.

    In addition, the Colombia Familias program was recently included in an internal World Bank risk
    review of CCT projects. The review rated the Familias program very highly overall, but noted in
    particular its thorough internal controls and strong monitoring and evaluation systems.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
    The Familias en Acción impact evaluation (IE) demonstrates that the program had a significant
    positive impact on the very human capital factors which the program was trying to influence;
    specifically, it found that health, education, and nutrition outcomes had improved dramatically for
    beneficiaries, as measured in the following ways:

    Nutrition/consumption
   l An increase in total household consumption by 19.5 percent in rural areas and by 9.3 percent in
        urban areas.     Most of the increase in consumption due to Familias was dedicated to food,
        principally of meat, chicken, and milk. There was also a considerable increase in the consumption
        of children's shoes, clothes, school books, and transportation to schools. (Source: "How Effective are
        Conditional Cash Transfers? Evidence from Colombia," The Institute for Fiscal Studies, Briefing Note 54,
        2005 and "Programa Familias en Acción, Resultados de Impacto un año después de implementado el
        Programa" DNP ­ SINERGIA No 4, 2006 ).
   l There was no incremental increase detected in consumption of alcohol, cigarettes, or adult clothing
        (Ibid).

   Health

   l For children less than 24 months old, an increase in the percentage with an up-to-date schedule of
        preventive healthcare visits from 17.2 percent to 40.0 percent. For children between 24 and 48
        months, a rise from 33.6 percent to 66.8 percent with an up-to-date schedule of preventive
        healthcare visits. (Source: Colombia Social Safety Net Project Appraisal Document, Annex 14: Programa
        Familias en Accion: Condiciones iniciales del los beneficiarios e impactos preliminares,"
        DNP-SINERGIA, 2004).




                                                     - 7 -

l An increase of 0.32 Kg. in the weight of rural boys and of 0.48 Kg. in urban boys ages 24 - 48
    months. (Source: Executive Summary of first phase of the Impact Evaluation of the Familias en Accion
    Program, IFS and Econometría Consultants, October 2004)
l An increase of 12 percentage points in DPT vaccinations in children less than two years old in
    rural areas. An increase of 7 percentage points in DPT vaccinations for children ages 2-4 years in
    urban areas. (Source: Executive Summary of first phase of the Impact Evaluation of the Familias en
    Accion Program, IFS and Econometria Consultants, October 2004).

Education
    A 10.1 percent increase in the rate of school attendance for rural children between 12-17 years old,
    and of 5.2 percent for same age children
    in urban areas . (Source: IFS Briefing Note 54, 2005).
                    3/




Outputs
In addition, as of December 2005, the program had benefited 514,502 families, of which 451,672 were
in SISBEN Level 1 .   4./


 As of the same date, 1,266,780 children had been covered by the program -- exceeding the target of
one million children noted in the PAD. Also by this time, the program was active in 702 municipalities
in 32 departments, of which 65 percent were those with less than 100,000 inhabitants. This coverage
corresponds to roughly 62 percent of the country. The program's output indicators include:

l percentage of loan going to education and nutrition grants (target was 66 percent; result was 97.5
    percent)
l percentage of grant recipients in lowest income quintile (target was 90 percent; result was 88
    percent)
l Compliance rate of participating municipalities with municipal-level immunization coverage targets
    (target was 90 percent, result was 95 percent).
    Source: Sinergia, Programa Familias en Acción ­ Condiciones Iniciales de los Beneficiarios e Impactos
    Preliminares, Marzo de 2004

These results, particularly when coupled with the externalities generated by the program (see Section
4.2), demonstrate the program's remarkable measurable impacts on protecting the human capital of
poor children and youth, which was the specific development objective of the project.

While these results are impressive, the Development Objective (DO) of the project also states that it
was designed to "alleviate the impact of Colombia's current economic crisis on the most vulnerable."
While project preparation was very quick, with five months from preparation to Board approval, it
took another eight months for the loan to become effective.        At that point, in November 2001, the
economic crisis was beginning to abate. The PAD states that the Colombian economy "has begun to
show signs of recovery, with GDP growing at above three percent in 2000" (page 5 of the PAD). This
trend continued during 2002/03 while the Familias program was still limited in its coverage.

Although macro-economic indicators were improving, however, Colombian children, particularly poor
ones, were still suffering from the effects of the crisis, as demonstrated by deteriorating social
indicators. The PAD states that "the increase in unemployment and poverty arising from the economic
crisis remains a grave concern and the restoration of a fiscal balance while protecting the welfare of the
poor and vulnerable continues to be a serious challenge." Indeed, unemployment rates in 2001, at the
start of the Project, were high (roughly 19 percent), and were still twice as high in 2004
(16 percent) as historical rates (8 percent). (Source: Colombia Labor Market Adjustment, Reform, and


                                                 - 8 -

    Productivity, Vol. II, November 2005, World Bank).

    Therefore, one has to weigh the wording of the PAD and the evidence of the improvement of the
    economy with the lingering effects of the crisis on the poor. Although the country was showing signs
    of economic recovery at the time the project was declared effective, social indictors were not, which
    coincides with international evidence that the poorest do not immediately benefit from GDP growth.
    Thus, the project responded rather effectively to the social effects of the crisis.

    Given the situation described above, the project would be rated Highly Satisfactory in terms of
    protecting poor children's human capital. However, because the DO wording is specifically linked to
    the then current, economic crisis, the achievement of the DO is rated as Satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
    Component A. Educational Grants. A total of US$ 84.8 million disbursed; 170 percent of
    appraisal estimate

    Familias benefited a total of 764,347 children, 464,176 at the primary level and 300,171 at the
    secondary level. The IE indicates that the program produced a net increase in school enrollment of rural
    secondary school children 12- 17 years old of 14 percentage points. For same age children in urban
    areas the effect was almost 6 percent. It also produced a net increase in school attendance of rural
    secondary school children 12-17 years old from 4.6 to 10.2 percentage points, and from 3.6 to 5.2
    percentage points in urban areas. Regarding specific outputs noted in the PAD, the IE and
    Management Information System (MIS) indicate that eligible families received:

    ·   primary education grant only (target = 30,700; result was 9,759)
    ·   secondary education grant only (target = 42,400; result was 68,055)
    ·   nutrition grant only (target was 67,500; result was 67,686)
    ·   nutrition and primary education grant (target was 76,100, result was 90,010)
    ·   nutrition and secondary education (target was 38,200, result was 21,774)
    ·   primary and secondary (target was 57,700, result was 72,898)
    ·   all three subsidies (target was 83,700, result was 40,794)

    The IE and MIS indicate that the number of children benefiting from Familias is broken down as
    follows:

    ·   nutrition grant (target was 472,500; result was 372,898)
    ·   primary education grant (target was 378,900; result was 464,176)
    ·   secondary education grant (target was 339,281; result was 300,171)
        Source: Acción Social Progress Report, December 2005

    Clearly the project had positive education impacts in terms of school enrollment and school attendance,
    and exceeded its coverage target at the primary school level. Based on this, and the externalities
    generated by the subsidies (see Component B for details), the component is rated Highly Satisfactory.



    Component B. Health Grants. A total of US$ 61.4 million disbursed; 83 percent of appraisal
    amount




                                                    - 9 -

The IE and MIS indicate that the health grants:

·   benefited a total of 372,898 children between the ages of 0-6
·   produced a significant improvement in the percentage of children brought to health centers for
    preventive care -- for children less than 24 months, the percent increased from 17.2 to 40.0. For
    children 24-48 months, the percent rose from 33.6 to 66.8.
·   produced a net change of 12 percent in children age 0-6 with complete immunization schemes.
·   produced a net change in nutritional status, as indicated by height and weight measurements. For
children 2 years and younger were on average
    0.78 cm taller than those in control group. Children between 4-8 years on average were .62 cm.
    taller than the control group.

Worth noting is the many externalities generated by the CCT program (both education and health
subsidies). When interviewed, mothers reported that they had learned much about managing finances,
children's health, and education issues, (a direct result of the training they received during the quarterly
encuentros cuidados and the bi-annual general assemblies for beneficiary mothers) as well as receiving
a psychological boost by having financial decision-making power. They also felt they were better role
models for their children. In turn, they are proud of their children's accomplishments in school, and
many indicated that they would indeed have removed their children from school if it had not been for
the subsidies. Regional coordinators, EMs, and mayors also commented on the psychological change
evident in beneficiary mothers. There also seems to be more trust in the government as a result of this
program, according to one regional coordinator, and the program has created certain expectations from
mothers -- that their children should be able to finish secondary school and even go on to university. At
least one mayor stated that he liked the program because it helped families realize that they share the
responsibility for the health and education of their children.

Given these results, this component is rated as Highly Satisfactory due to its direct impacts and
externalities.

Component C. Project Management. A total of US$ 2.5 million disbursed; 9 percent of appraisal
amount

The National Coordinating Unit (NCU) in the Presidency was responsible for the administrative,
technical, operational, and financial execution of the project, the contracting and acquisition of goods
and services, policy formulation, and monitoring and supervision. This work included the finalization
of the Operational Manual, preparation of regular Progress Reports on project implementation, and the
contracting of services for (i) the compliance verification process, (ii) the payment process, (iii) the
implementation of operational audits/ spot checks, and (iv) the impact evaluation. The NCU was
staffed with 35 of professional staff at the central level. At the regional level, the NCU was supported
by 25 regional coordinators.

The decision to house the Familias program with the Office of the President gave it the political and
institutional support it needed to succeed. The costs for this component were financed by GOC
resources in order to allow for a faster start-up of the program in terms of procurement, and the
contracting of highly qualified and committed professionals. The program unit proved flexible (able to
respond to the coverage shortage resulting from the outdated SISBEN, identified during the pilot phase
of the program); committed (the Familias team was able to maintain the credibility of the program with
beneficiaries during the payment freeze - described in Section 5.2 - while convincing the new



                                                 - 10 -

administration of the program's worth); and quick-moving
(Familias made up the four missed payment cycles resulting from the freeze within nine months).

Program administration costs are also notably low. The NCU has successfully outsourced the
compliance verification and spot check activities, so it is able to maintain a small staff at the central
level and one Regional Coordinator in each of the departments. At the municipal level, Familias is
supported by the Enlaces Municipales ­ which are paid for by the municipalities. The team has
foregone, with the exception of the impact evaluation, carrying out analytical work in favor of
implementing the program as quickly as possible and expanding it to meet coverage targets. This has
allowed the NCU to maintain a lean, tight, implementation team. Overheads are approximately 6
percent which compares very favorably to other CCT programs in the region.

For these reasons, the ICR team rates this component as Satisfactory.

Component D. Monitoring and Evaluation. A total of $1.21 million disbursed, 74 percent of
appraisal amount

Familias has benefited from a strong and comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system including
·   a process evaluation of the six-month pilot of the Familias program, to make recommendations on
needed adjustments to the project design;
·   the establishment of a MIS to track the Project's physical and financial progress during
    implementation (including data on compliance and delivery of grants);
·   the design of a system of community monitoring (Veeduría Ciudadana) of the program in
participating municipalities;
·   the elaboration of Terms of Reference and contracting out of operational audits/spot checks, which
    were regular field reviews that monitored the project's adherence to the operational manual and
    identified operational bottlenecks/issues;
·   financial external audits; and
·   a full fledged experimental impact evaluation (IE) managed by NPD and carried out by a
    consortium of national and international experts. The IE process included a baseline survey that
    was collected between June and October 2002. Three measurements of the IE were planned at
    project inception; the first was completed in 2004, and the second in 2005. The final measurement
    of the IE is due in June 2006. Results are posted on the program's website.

The contracting of the IE took about a year due to extensive discussions surrounding its Terms of
Reference and Bank procurement requirements for international bidding. The resulting baseline and
evaluation reports, however, were of high quality and delivered on time. The results of the IE were
presented to and discussed with a wide audience in Colombia and were also analyzed in the
international context during discussions about CCT programs in general. The IE not only influenced
the Government's decision to continue and expand the Familias en Acción program, it also contributed
to defining the larger social protection and evaluation agenda in the country. Based on this positive
experience, the GOC has started to build a government-wide results based evaluation agenda which the
Bank is supporting cross-sectorally and specifically through a new loan.

Another important element of Familias' monitoring system is the outsourcing of the compliance
verification process to a competitively selected private firm. Meetings with the firm demonstrated the
evolution and fine-tuning of the system. In addition, the IE shows that the system is efficient and meets
its purpose of channeling the necessary compliance information to the program in a clockwork manner.



                                               - 11 -

Another advantage of the system is that it requires mothers to present themselves regularly at health
centers and schools, keeping abreast of their children's progress and developing a closer relationship
with officials at these institutions.

The system of operational audits (spot checks), which was also outsourced to a private firm, allows for
the monitoring of the operational efficiency and evolution of the program at regular points in time.
Conducted in the field, spot checks have been key in detecting operational weaknesses in the
design/implementation of the program, to which the NCU can then respond. Discussions with the firm
charged with carrying out spot checks revealed the thorough analytical nature of these reviews,
designed and supervised by a highly qualified Director.

This component is rated Highly Satisfactory due to the monitoring system's comprehensive and
innovative nature; that is, due to its integrated design which incorporates spot checks, citizen oversight,
outsourcing of the compliance verification process (see Section 3.5 and Annex 7 for more details) and
the high quality of the full fledged experimental impact evaluation, one of the first of its kind, which
has had important impacts on policy, program continuity and operation.

Component E. Promotion and Dissemination. A total of $2.5 million disbursed, 75 percent of
appraisal amount

This component financed a myriad of activities related to making the program known to the public, and
to training those directly involved in its implementation (municipal authorities, teachers and health
staff, beneficiaries, central and regional program staff, etc.). This included: (i) public relation and
information campaign activities announcing the start of the Familias program, which were carried out
through television, radio, and print media (newspapers as well as posters, brochures, billboards, etc.),
and which were aimed at beneficiaries and other stakeholders (e.g., municipal government staff); (ii)
workshops for technical and administrative staff involved in the Familias program; (iii) encuentros
familiares, which were monthly meetings held by beneficiary mothers during which they participated in
training on topics related to health, nutrition, and education; and encuentros juveniles/infantiles, which
were similar meetings held for youth and children; (iv) publication of pamphlets explaining the
inscription process; and (v) publication of training materials.

The December 2005 Progress Report for the Familias program indicates that the following number of
trainings and assemblies were carried out during the course of the project:

        Period                # of Municipalities        Madres Líderes        General Assemblies
                                                             Elected               Carried Out
          2002                       474                      5,257                     693
          2003                       614                      7,442                     748
          2004                       626                      8,549                   1,389
          2005                       670                      9,073                     794


    Period              # of              # of             # of        # of Madres       # of EMs
                  Municipalities     Encuentros        Participants      Líderes          Trained
                                       Cuidados                          Trained
                                     Carried Out
      2002              246               1,134          47,486           3,501              317
      2003              508               6,531          268,093          5,275              509


                                                  - 12 -

2004    606    22,307      441,169   5,830    622
2005    594    21,327      408,350   2,542    525




                     - 13 -

    This component also involved educating selected municipalities on the Familias program and
    workshops with beneficiary mothers on the verification and payment process. This occurred once a
    municipality had demonstrated that it could meet the demand for education and health services and
    were admitted into the Familias program.           Its successful implementation ensured that eligible
    beneficiaries were aware of, and could readily access and meet the conditions of the program.

    Given the success of the component in: (i) promoting the program and its results nationally and
    internationally (Familias has been profiled at two international workshops on CCT programs, and has
    received delegations from other countries wishing to learn more about the Colombia CCT experience);
    (ii) carrying out training for local authorities and for beneficiaries, including adding training for
    children of beneficiary mothers; (iii) holding local authorities accountable for the delivery of adequate
    social services for beneficiaries; and (iv) providing families with a platform to improve themselves and
    empowering mothers to become actively involved in their communities and municipalities, the ICR
    team rates it as Highly Satisfactory.

   Component F. Health, Education, and Nutrition Services Delivery (no Bank financing)

   This component consisted of education, health and nutrition services provided by involved public
   institutions to beneficiaries in the participating municipalities. The amount of US$206.24 million at
   appraisal was recognized by the Bank as an in-kind contribution from the national and local
   governments in Colombia, and included vaccinations, teacher salaries, and other related items of public
   health and education services. The services reached roughly 400,000 families with a total of 1,137,245
   individuals as follows:

        Nutrition grants:                          372,898 children benefited
        Primary education grants:                  464,176 children benefited
        Secondary education grants:                300,171 children benefited

    Given the high compliance rate of beneficiaries in the Familias program, which demonstrates the
    adequate supply of health and education services, the ICR team rates this component as Satisfactory.

    Component G. Unallocated

    The unallocated amount of US$8.31 million was mainly in place to account for the uncertainty in the
    relative proportion of uptake of health and education grants. During implementation this amount was
    re-allocated to health and education grants (see Section 3.3 for a description of these components). The
    GOC allocated a greater amount to educational subsidies, because the Familias program ended up
    doing a one-time inscription of beneficiaries to the program, resulting in an aging beneficiary
    population. Beneficiary children eventually outgrew the criteria for the health/nutrition subsidy (that
    subsidy was for children ages 0-6 years only), and grew into the eligibility criteria for the education
    grants (which was allowed for children ages 7 - 17 years old).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
   See Annex 3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
     Not applicable.




                                                     - 14 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
    The Familias program has made several essential contributions to the country's institutional
    development:
    (i) Involvement of local governments in social assistance provision: Through the establishment of the
    cooperating contracts with the municipalities, and the creation of the municipal liaison officer position,
    Familias has improved municipalities' capacity to respond to community safety net needs. This has
    also facilitated closer involvement of mayors with beneficiary mothers, and in some cases, has
    motivated them to request additional support from the Ministry of Education to finance additional
    school programs (e.g., providing school backpacks stocked with education supplies to primary school
    children).

    (ii) Creation of a results-oriented Monitoring and Evaluation culture in the country. The Project has
    contributed to a culture of M&E not only in the Presidency and National Planning Department, but
    throughout the Colombian government. The Ministry of Social Protection, for example, is now
    carrying out impact evaluations for several of social programs under their responsibility (e.g. in ICBF)
    and has strengthened its planning and evaluation unit with support from the Bank. NPD's capacity to
    carry out impact evaluations has dramatically increased.         The establishment of a results-based
    management system that is transparent and accountable, and linked to policy decisions, is well under
    way and supported by the highest levels of government.

    (iii) Establishment of a new Ministry of Social Protection (MSP). In 2003, the GOC decided to merge
    the Ministries of Health and Labor into the new Ministry of Social Protection. It is important to note
    that the emerging international discussion on Social Protection as well as the underpinning analytical
    works (Social Safety Net Assessment, etc.), carried out during preparation and initial implementation
    of the project, provided important inputs for this decision. The MSP, in collaboration with NPD, is
    currently crafting a national social protection strategy, with the Familias en Acción program at the
    core of its social assistance.

    Given these important effects on strategic institutional development at both the national and local
    levels, the ICR team rates the institutional development impact as Substantial.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
    The fairly quick recovery of the Colombian economy between 2001 and 2002 meant that Familias had
    a lesser impact as an immediate crisis response mechanism and a rather large one on structural poverty,
    particularly in rural areas.

    As for factors outside of the control of the implementation agency, it is interesting to note that in some
    instances subsidies went unclaimed; spot check reviews indicated that this typically happened when the
    cost of transportation to pick up the payment exceeded the subsidy. There was not a high incidence of
    this phenomenon, however, and the program successfully reduced this to a minimum by immediately
    following up with the respective families through leader mothers or EMs.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
    The SISBEN had not been updated by the DNP in six years, leading to a partially outdated database of
    beneficiaries (although, as generally known, upward movements of the poorest segments of the
    population are rather slow) and a subsequent low initial uptake of Familias' conditional cash transfers.
   This was detected during the pilot phase and coverage targets were met by expanding the program to
   additional municipalities, and the decision made to keep beneficiaries in the program for five years


                                                     - 15 -

    instead of three. The SISBEN has since been updated and reformed to improve targeting.

    With the advent of President Uribe's administration in 2002 came a freeze of the budget, which also
    affected the conditional cash transfers financed under the project. This freeze was in large part due to a
    tight fiscal situation that affected all government programs, but was also a result of the Uribe
    administration's uncertainty of the value of the Familias program and its concerns about the high cost
    of impact evaluations (which was approximately 1 percent of project costs, and well within
    international standards). By this time, however, the NCU of the Familias program had received the
    results of the first measurement of the impact evaluation, and were able to demonstrate, as earlier
    noted, the strong and positive effects the program was having on children's schooling and health, as
    well as on labor and consumption. Armed with this information, they were able to gain support for the
    continuation and expansion of the program.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
    Project effectiveness took eight months, in part because approval was held up in the Interparliamentary
    Commission (the delay here was caused by a systemic problem within the IC that has now been
    resolved, but which held up the processing of several multilateral loans at the time), but also because
    the NCU was working to meet the financial management and procurement requirements that were a
    condition of effectiveness. This impeded the project's ability to respond immediately to the economic
    crisis. However, the project was still able to meet its targets in terms of coverage and impact on the
    human capital of poor children.

5.4 Costs and financing:
    Total costs were estimated at US$369.92 million equivalent, excluding IDB financing. IDB financing
    at appraisal was expected to be US$84.23 million. Excluding IDB funding, at the closing date, the total
    project cost was estimated at US$186.9 million, (51 percent of the appraised amount), of which
    US$150 million were from the fully disbursed Bank loan (80 percent of the total executed cost), and
    US$36.9 million from counterpart funds (Federal and local governments).

    Table 2: Loan overview by category of expenditures at different time periods of the
    implementation cycle
              Category            Initial - August 2001 (US$million)     Final - April    Percentage of
                                                                              2005          Appraisal
                                                                         (US$million)
          Total subsidies                       122.96                      146.29             119
        Education Grants                        48.86                        84.85             174
    Health/Nutrition Grants                     74.10                        61.44              83
       Consultant Services                      11.69                         1.21              10
              Goods                              7.04                          2.5              36
            Unallocated                          8.31                           0              NA
               Total                            150.0                        150.0             NA




                                                     - 16 -

    The increase in overall subsidies is a result of the GOC's decision to expand the program from 3-5
    years and its expansion during 2005. The decrease in consultant services and goods was a result of the
    government's successful efforts to implement the program mostly through existing institutional
    capacities (municipalities, existing regional offices of ICBF and Presidency, DNP managing the impact
    evaluation, etc.) and keeping it lean and efficient.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
    Sustainability of program effects can be observed at four levels:

    (i) At the Human Capital Level. First and most importantly, the long lasting effects of every additional
    school year spent have been documented widely, with important impacts on the social and economic
    development of the country (including mother's improved education, productivity, etc.). Similarly,
    every contribution to improving the nutritional and health status of poor young children contributes
    immensely to their physical and social development in becoming productive members of society.

    (ii) At the Strategic and Policy Level. Over the past year the Government has been developing a
    strategic vision for the country's development in the next 15 years, known as Vision Colombia 2019.
    Social protection and the Familias program figure prominently in this strategy, with the expectation
    that the Familias CCT will expand to more than a million beneficiary households (about 10% of
   Colombia's population) during the present administration. A decision was taken in 2005 to maintain
   the program in the Presidency in order to coordinate it more intensively with related social programs
   for the poorest and most vulnerable segments of the population (including displaced families),
   following the "Chile Solidaria" model of a modern social assistance system.

   (iii) At the Institutional Coordination level. Through the CCT program, the GOC has found an
   effective mechanism to actually implement its goal of universal health and education service provision.
   Initial coordination with the Ministry of Education (MOE) started slow given that the supply of
   education services is the responsibility of states and municipalities in Colombia. More recently,
   however, the MOE's attention to the Familias program rests on the latter's many benefits for increasing
   coverage and regular attendance in rural and dispersed areas, and the Ministry has started to promote
   the program in regular meetings with the state and municipal entities of education as a key instrument
   for achieving government education priorities. Also, the MOE used the impact evaluation results to
   propose to Congress that the targeted CCT program was a better alternative than a universal
   free-education policy.

   In health and nutrition, the Ministry of Social Protection's main priority is to increase coverage of the
   full vaccination plan (also supported by a Bank programmatic adjustment loan). Familias has
    contributed to achieving this goal in that over 93 percent of beneficiary children below 5 years of age,
    have completed vaccinations (as shown by the impact evaluation), against less than 80 percent for the
    national population.

    (iv) At the Financial Level. The program is currently financed almost entirely by external credit
    resources. According to one report, it would be difficult for the GOC to finance the program with local
    budget resources in the short term -- the amount required would be roughly US$140 million per year
    beginning in 2007. This would likely mean that the current Government (elected in May 2006) would
    need to reduce program coverage in order to finance it from local budget resources. The Government



                                                     - 17 -

    has therefore requested the Bank's and the IDB's support in co-financing a new phase of the program.
    Abandoning the program altogether does not seem to be an option, given Familias prominence in the
    national development plan, in the MSP's social protection strategy, and the demonstrated impact the
    program has had on the social indicators of the poor.

    For these reasons, the ICR team rates sustainability as Highly Likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
    While the Familias en Acción program was originally conceived as a three-year crisis response
    mechanism, it has clearly evolved to the government's main program for reducing structural poverty.
    This insight came as international studies and local implementation experience indicated that a three
    year intervention is not long enough to sustain the positive impacts of the program on the poor and
    move them out of poverty. Thus, the GOC has confirmed its commitment to institutionalizing the
    program, and the Bank has already approved a second loan of US$86.4 million (Social Safety Net
    Project) to provide financing to expand the program to 400,000 families by end 2006 (which had
    already been exceeded by the end of 2005), and strengthening the Ministry of Social Protection's
    capacity to monitor and evaluate its programs and policies.

    Today, the GOC understands the potential of Familias to be expanded and contracted in response to
    different shocks, thus being a counter-cyclical response mechanism that can help weather many kinds
    of crises. International experience has demonstrated, for example, that CCTs can respond to crises
    other than economic. In Jamaica, when Hurricane Ivan struck in 2004, the country's Programme for
    Advancement Through Health and Education (PATH), also a conditional cash transfer program,
    simply increased the transfer amount one time to assist the poor affected by the storm. Similarly, an
    evaluation of Nicaragua's CCT program has shown the positive and stabilizing effects of their CCT
    program when the coffee crisis hit in the early 2000s.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
    The Bank assembled an highly qualified, specialized team that responded to the GOC's request for
    assistance with a wide range of possible programs and solid technical advice on which were most
    effective at achieving results. The Bank also advised underpinning operational work with analytical
    studies. This led to the completion of the SSNA, which armed the GOC with information on its
    existing social safety net and recommendations to improve it; and the decision to implement a CCT
    which has indeed produced positive results. The result is not only a well-designed, effective CCT
    program, but a more integrated, responsive safety net in Colombia. The Bank team also provided
    practical help by (i) obtaining a Japanese grant to help finance analytical studies to underpin decision
    on social sector programs in general and Familias in particular, and to assist in the design of Familias,
    and
    (ii) arranging a study tour to visit the Mexico Oportunidades program, allowing the client to see for
    itself a CCT program in action. Once the GOC decided to implement a CCT project, the Bank was able
    to provide international experience on lessons learned from other CCT programs. In addition, the Bank
    collaborated closely with the IDB to lessen the demand on the client and ensure that the GOC did not
    receive conflicting policy advice.

    This would normally be an argument for a Highly Satisfactory rating. However, the Bank team
    underestimated the time it would take to establish a CCT operation. In addition, some of the initial cost
    estimates and implementation arrangements (e.g. collaboration with ICBF) proved to be slightly off


                                                    - 18 -

    target. Finally, given that the DO states that the project was to respond to a current economic crisis,
    which was showing signs of abating by the time the Project started, but also taking into consideration
    the positive impact of the program on the lives of the poor, the ICR team rates the Bank's performance
    during lending as Satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
    The Bank carried out eleven supervision missions between June 2001 and December 2005 (roughly
    every six months) and prepared PSR/ISRs accordingly, and maintained communication with the
    Familias team in between through videoconferences, and while preparing other loans for the country.
    While some of the initial supervision reports are not complete in their tracking of output and impact
    indicators, and are vague in their description of identified problems related to financial management
    and other indicators (for example, in the first two PSRs, the text indicate that the Project only became
    effective eight months after Board approval -- but do not clearly state why), the Project Supervision
    Reports and Information Supervision Reports (PSRs/ISRs) and other documents found in the project
    files indicate that the Bank team assessed the procurement and FM aspects of the project during
    supervision, appropriately rating them unsatisfactory in at least one review because certain reports
    were overdue. In addition, the preparation of semestral Progress Reports by the NCU helped the
    continued communication between the Familias and the Bank team, and close collaboration with the
    IDB team ensured coordinated policy advice and eased the demand on the client. Project records
    indicate that a financial management review was carried out as part of the mid-term review of the
    Project Project files do not record an official mid-term review of the project, but communications on
    financial management issues cite a mid-term review carried out on FM, and an ex-post review of the
    NCU's procurement practices, completed in the spring of 2006, reported no issues in this area.

    For these reasons, the Bank's performance during supervision is rated as Satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
    Satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
    By all accounts, the GOC established a highly qualified team to work with the Banks (IDB and the
    World Bank) and review options for confronting the then current economic crisis. The very committed
    government officials were open to innovative ideas and possessed a deep knowledge of Colombia's
    particularities, and they designed a CCT program whose implementation arrangements are quite
    distinct from, for example, Mexico's Oportunidades or Jamaica's PATH program. The NCU team
    incorporated a pilot phase in the Familias design, which was key in identifying problems in the
    project's implementation. There was frequent communication with the Bank via missions, video, and
    audio conferences, and lengthy discussions were held on key issues such as where to house the
    Familias program. A national coordinator for the NCU central unit was contracted in September 2000
    and has remained throughout project implementation ­ another key factor for the program's success.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
    The placement of Familias under the President's office demonstrated the highest support for the
    program, and meant that the Familias team could be flexible and quick-acting. While the freeze in
    grant payments threatened the credibility and long-term survival of the program at one point (see
    Section 5.2), this was resolved once the new authorities acquainted themselves with the operation of the
    program and its results as demonstrated by the IE.




                                                     - 19 -

   For these reasons, the ICR team rates the Government's implementation performance as Satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
    Familia's implementation arrangements fit perfectly into Colombia's decentralized governing
    structure. A central coordinating unit was established in the Presidency to oversee and guide program
    implementation. Next, Familias established Regional Coordinators (one in each departmental capital)
   who serve as a link between the national and the municipal. Local governments play a key role in the
    program's implementation. To enter into the program, a municipality is required to appoint a liaison
    officer (Enlace Municipal, EM) in charge of coordinating the implementation of the Familias program
    at the municipal level. EMs are intensively supported by Madres Líderes, or Leader Mothers, who are
    beneficiary women elected by a group of about 60 mothers to represent their interests at the local level.


    Another interesting aspect of the implementation of the Familias program, compared to some other
    CCT programs in the region, is that key services were outsourced to the private sector rather than
    implemented by the program itself. Coordination with the supply side of health and education services
    is carried out through local governments, who are responsible for the provision of these services. The
    Familias program worked with the NPD, the National Education Plan, and the Department of Public
    Health targets to establish whether a municipality is able to meet service demand before admitting it
    into the program. In some municipalities that temporarily did not provide sufficient supply of these
    services, the Familias program decided to interrupt payments until the services were reestablished.

    Coordination with the ICBF was not as intensive as expected at inception. This institute, which is
    financed by an earmarked payroll tax, is implementing an array of social programs, including the
    "hogares comunitarios" children's day care program. To ensure collaboration between these
    programs and Familias, it was agreed that they should share the regional offices that ICBF had in
    place, and that ICBF should provide Familias with some logistical and staff support. This only worked
    in some offices. In others, collaboration was minimal due to a reduction of ICBF staff during the same
    period. As a consequence, the cooperation between beneficiaries, local governments, and regional
    coordinators (in ICBF or Presidency's regional offices) became stronger, with the local government
    officials in the driver seat of implementation.

    In accordance with national regulations, but also going beyond those requirements, the implementing
    agency put in place a comprehensive control and evaluation system to timely monitor the performance
    of the program and ensure its accountability. This system involves fiscal controls of the Auditor
    General's Office; inspections by the General Accounting Office; internal audits conducted by the
    Internal Audit Office of the Presidency; external audits; and operational audits/spot checks.         In
    addition, claims and complaints are processed by a special unit within the Familias program. While in
    the beginning of program implementation a lot of claims had to be dealt with, claims over time
    diminished significantly, indicating a smoother implementation of the program. Citizen oversight is
    fostered by the creation of Citizen Oversight Committees (COC - Veeduría Ciudadanas), and finally,
    an experimental Impact Evaluation of the program ­ one of the fist of its kind - was tendered
    internationally in 2001. Its base line survey was carried out in 2001, a first measurement in 2002 and
    a second in 2003. Of the 11,500 households sampled in the base line survey, 94 percent were
    re-contacted for the first measurement. The low attrition rate of only six percent indicates good data
    quality. A third measurement was fielded in late 2005, and is currently being analyzed; its results will
    be obtained in September 2006 (for results of the previous measurements, see Section 4.1).

    Fiduciary Requirements. The Legal Agreement requires that the Familias program send quarterly


                                                   - 20 -

    financial reports and annual external audits to the Bank. Project records indicate that on a couple of
    occasions the quarterly reports were overdue. External audits were received on time. The external
    audits show that there were some weaknesses detected in the Familias financial management (FM)
    system which were addressed step by step during project implementation.

    Disbursements. Initially disbursements were slower than anticipated, mainly due to the initial low
    uptake of the Familias CCT program (see Sections 3.5 and 5.2). During the first thirteen months of
    project implementation, disbursements averaged US$6.5 million per quarter.                                                            However, once the
    obstacle to the low uptake was identified, the NCU acted quickly to address the problem by expanding
    the Familias program to additional municipalities. Disbursements then increased quickly to about
    US$9.61 million per quarter.


                               F a m ilias en Accion Disbursements


                            160,000,000
                            140,000,000

         million)           120,000,000
                            100,000,000
                             80,000,000
                 (US$        60,000,000
                             40,000,000
                             20,000,000
                     Amount            0


                                         Dec-01  Apr-02  Aug-02  Dec-02  Apr-03  Aug-03  Dec-03    Apr-04  Aug-04  Dec-04  Apr-05




    For these reasons, the ICR team rates the performance of the Implementing Agency as Satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
    Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

   Careful, country-specific design is key to the success of a social assistance program. This involves
    a system of checks and balances, of monitoring and evaluation, and respect for the specific institutional
    capacities of the host country. The use of existing country systems can mean a faster start-up and
    better participation in the program. In Colombia's case, a decentralized system of education and health
    meant that the CCT would need to be implemented in a decentralized way as well; decentralized
    systems need solid verification and spot check system to mitigates leakage and identify bottlenecks to
    implementation, and the use of SISBEN allowed for fast beneficiary identification which                                                            was
    transparent and trusted by the beneficiary population. The initial support from ICBF facilitated the
    Familias' program entry into target municipalities.                                                          The political decision to keep the program
    centralized technically but decentralized operationally given the importance of local knowledge and
    involvement when working with poorer population groups.

    Project preparation headed by a strong local team and early involvement of the executing agency
    were key factors in program success, as this assured program ownership and adaptation to
   Colombia's circumstances and institutional arrangements. As noted, to speed up program
   implementation, the government placed Familias within the Office of the President (DAPR-FIP). The



                                                                                               - 21 -

FIP, by virtue of law 487 of 1998, had a Derecho Privado (private sector) regime status which allowed
it to contract more quickly than under the government procurement law. It also allowed the FIP to
contract very qualified local consultants and pay competitive salaries more in line with those of the
private sector.

Being able to show concrete results on the ground is critical to maintaining the legitimacy and
sustainability of the program. The timely Familias en Accion impact evaluation results allowed the
FIP to demonstrate the positive impacts of the program to government officials and thereby keep and
expand the program.

Coordination with other donors limits the demands put on clients, ensures that the client is not
receiving conflicting policy advice, and builds trust between all three, allowing for a smoother
preparation and implementation process. Similarly, inter-sectoral collaboration within the Bank is key
to improving project quality; in the case of Familias, the Bank's Human Development and Poverty
Assessment teams collaborated on the sector work (SSNA and Poverty Assessment) which underpinned
the selection of social programs and improved the quality of the individual studies.

Involvement of the private sector in the implementation of the program improved efficiency and
transparency. The use of a private contractor to collect, process, and aggregate data for compliance
verification of school attendance of about 800,000 school children 7-18 years of age not only
disentangle program implementation for the central unit, but also increased the use of checks and
balances in the system. After a few initial difficulties, the verification procedures have been fine-tuned
and now deliver verified information every two months to program authorities to determine and deliver
payments. This is remarkable as quite a few of the CCT programs in the region struggle with
implementing the verification of conditionalities at the individual and family levels.

The program provides incentives for local governments to make services available for the
poorest. Through the program, municipalities are encouraged to ensure that the supply of education
and health and nutrition services are available for program beneficiaries. In addition, upon agreement
with the program, municipalities appoint one responsible municipal staff to help manage program
implementation in the territory--the Enlace Municipal. This person or team (depending on the size of
the municipality) is responsible for making sure that services are available, helping verify
responsibilities, receiving complaints by beneficiaries and making sure that families receive payments
on time and attend complementary services offered by the program.

However, relying on municipal governments in the implementation of the program also presents
challenges. The involvement of municipal staff in program implementation has been critical, but also
problematic. They need training, as they do not always possess the necessary skills at the beginning; in
addition, they have other responsibilities besides Familias, so cannot always devote sufficient time to
the program. EMs changed frequently due to changes in mayors, and in some cases, they themselves
ended up running for political office.

The Bank should not overestimate (i) its ability to respond to crises in a country where there is no
social safety net in place; (ii) the length of time it takes to design a new CCT program; and (iii) the
amount of time needed to design and contract an impact evaluation study. Regarding points (i) and (ii),
setting up a new program requires time and careful examination by competent administrators and
lawyers. Activities included designing competitive bidding arrangements with the banking system to
find a cost effective payer with wide coverage of municipalities included, to contract out verification
services, spot checks and other key program activities. In addition, impact evaluation activities need to


                                                 - 22 -

    be included right from the start of project preparation, or they might come too late ­ a danger that
    fortunately did not occur in this case.

    CCT programs generate positive externalities, including the empowerment of poor women;
    improved self-confidence of beneficiaries, increased trust in (local and central) governments; creating
    expectations within the beneficiary population in terms of the education of their children; and
    fomenting grassroots pressure to improve health and education services.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
        The Borrower's comments are translated and presented in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information


    ENDNOTES
    1/.
       This agreement allowed GOC to allocate 0.3 percent of GDP to social safety net programs outside
    the regular federal budget for three years (thus not counting towards the budget deficit) and to finance
    these programs with loans from multilateral agencies, including the Bank and the IDB.
    2/.
       On some occasions there was no mother in the family, and in those cases the subsidy was transferred
    to the person holding custody of the child including grandparents, fathers, etc.
    3/.
       Children between the ages of 8 and 11 years have very high attendance rates, of over 90 percent in
    both urban and rural areas; consequently, there is little room for improvement in attendance rates for
    this age group.
    4/.
       Because the SISBEN was outdated at the start of the Project, some families who had moved in the
    intervening years from SISBEN level 1 to level 2, benefited from Familias, as they were still listed as
    SISBEN I.




                                                   - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                            Actual/Latest Estimate
Net change in the % of children brought to     13% increase                                      For children less than 24 months, the %
health centers for preventive care                                                               increased from 17.2 to 40.0. For children
                                                                                                 24-48 months, the % rose from 33.6 to 66.8.

Net change in children age 0-6 with complete 33.5% in rural areas                                12% increase in urban children less than two
immunization scheme                                                                              years old with complete DPT immunization.
Net change in children age 0-6 complying       90%                                               90%
with regular growth and health monitoring
Net change in nutritional status (as measured The program significantly increased the            Children 2 years and younger were on
through anthropometric indicators) of children weight of children living in rural areas (2,449). average .78 cm taller than those in control
age 0-3                                        Results from urban areas were not                 group. Children between 4-8 years on
                                               significant.                                      average were .62 cm. taller than the control
                                                                                                 group.
Net change in school attendance                Not available.                                    Secondary school enrollment for children
                                                                                                 12-17 years old in rural areas increased from
                                                                                                 4.6 to 10.2 percentage points, and from 3.6
                                                                                                 to 5.2 percentage points in urban areas.
Net change in school dropout                   Not available.                                    Not available.
Net change in school enrollment                Secondary school enrollment increased by 14 Secondary school enrollment for children 12-
                                               percentage points in rural areas and by           17 years old in rural areas increased by 14
                                               almost 6 percent in urban areas.                  percentage points. For same age children in
                                                                                                 urban areas the effect was almost 6%.
Net change in transition rate, especially      Not available                                     Not available.
grades 1-2, 5-6, and 9-10.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                            Actual/Latest Estimate
Project Implementation: actual compared to
estimated numbers for all three components
(nutrition grants, education grants, and
training):

    - Number of beneficiaries (families and    1,079,212 children                                1,266,780 children
children).                                     428,545 families                                  514,502 families


      - % of poor beneficiaries.               Not available                                     91% below the poverty line.
      - Amount disbursed by project and
received by beneficiaries.                     US$146.2 million of loan proceeds                 US$146.3 million of loan proceeds.
Project Efficiency:
    - % of loan going to education and
nutrition grants.                              97.5%                                             97.5%
   - % of grant recipients in lowest income
quintile.                                      76%                                               88%
    - Rate of growth of participating
municipalities.                                Not available.                                    95%




1End of project




                                                                  - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                         Component                                   US$ million       US$ million
Education Grants                                                        48.86               84.85               173.65
Health/Nutrition Grants                                                 74.10               61.44                 82.92
Project Management                                                      13.78                 2.50                18.14
Monitoring and Evaluation                                                1.63                 1.21                74.23
Promotion and Dissemination*                                             3.32                 2.50
Unallocated                                                              8.31                 0.00

Total Baseline Cost                                                    150.00              152.50
 Physical Contingencies                                                  0.00
 Price Contingencies                                                     0.00
                            Total Project Costs                        150.00              152.50
                    Total Financing Required                           150.00              152.50
*Table includes only Bank financing. Promotion and Dissemination costs were financed by the GOC.
Unallocated funds were re-allocated to grants.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                       Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
2. Goods                                2.96               4.81               2.00             0.00              9.77
                                       (2.25)             (3.66)             (1.52)           (0.00)             (7.43)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              12.40             10.68             23.08
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (12.40)           (0.00)            (12.40)
4. Operational Costs                    0.00               0.00               0.00            206.25            206.25
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
5. Grants                               0.00               0.00              51.65             0.00              51.65
    a. Education                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (51.65)           (0.00)            (51.65)
6. Grants                               0.00               0.00              78.52             0.00              78.52
     a. Health                         (0.00)             (0.00)            (78.52)           (0.00)            (78.52)
   Total                                2.96               4.81             144.57            216.93            369.27
                                       (2.25)             (3.66)           (144.09)           (0.00)           (150.00)



 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 25 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                 Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
                             Bank      Govt.       CoF.    Bank      Govt.       CoF.  Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Education Grants             48.86                         84.85     13.83             173.7
Health Grants                74.10                         61.44     10.01             82.9
Project Management           13.78     13.01                          5.49             0.0     42.2
Monitoring and Evaluation    1.63                                                      0.0
Promotion &                  3.32                                                      0.0
Dissemination
Unallocated                  8.31                                                      0.0
Health, education, &
nutrition services delivery
Front End Fee                          1.50                           1.50                    100.0
Total Project Financing     150.00    220.76               150.00    32.70             100.0   14.8




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

    Overall, program results to date have been above expectations for most indicators, after a little more
    than one year of program operation. The impact evaluation found a significant impact of the
    program on nutrition, incidence of communicable disease, vaccination rates and school attendance
    indicators for children. Chronic malnutrition of program rural children 0-2 years of age was
    reduced by 10 percent as compared to the control group (against an expectation of 5 percent in the
    project economic analysis). The vaccination rates with DTP increased by 12 percent in urban areas.

    In education, the results were below expectations for primary school participation (the original
    expectation being an increase in the enrollment rate of ten percent, to 90 percent), possibly because
    school enrollment levels are already very high in Colombia. The program led to an average increase
    in years of education above 0.2 years in secondary school and almost 0.1 years in primary school.
    This translates into a net present value gain of about US$ 236 for primary school and US$ 646 for
    secondary school, based on the estimated net present value calculations (a work life span of 40 years
    and a discount rate of 7 percent) in the economic analysis prepared for the project (see Annex 4 of
    the PAD). The following is a summary table of the three main indicators that were considered in the
    Net Present Value (NPV) calculations of the PAD. As seen in the table, all indicators (except for
    primary education which is slightly below the original estimated value), are significantly higher than
    those used for the NPV calculations. As a result, and due to the fact that the project costs are in line
    with original PAD estimates, the ex-post project NPV is higher than the original estimates which
    was positive.

            Expected and Realized Program Impact on Nutrition and Education Indicators*
      Benefit type                                                       Expected        Realized      Difference
      -Decrease in chronic malnutrition (stunting) rate                 5                10           + 5
      -Increase in primary school attainment (yrs)                      0.36             0.301        -0.06
      -Increase in secondary school attainment (yrs.)                   0.31             0.601        +0.30
    * The project was originally estimated to last three years. Thus, we multiply the effects found after one year
    by three. For the evaluation results the source is NPD-SINERGIA with the consulting firm
    IFS-Econometria.

    The program also had additional indirect benefits (not considered in the original NPV calculations).
    First, it increased the income generation capacity among poor households. Women in program
    households are on average almost 20 percent more likely to earn an income than non-program
    households. The effect was stronger in urban areas. Second, consumption of high protein foods
    increased by about 15 percent and, as a consequence, the number of families below the indigence
    line declined by about 6 percent. Third, the impact on child labor was small but negative (the
    program household will employ less children aged 10-17 years in both urban and rural areas). This
    result is affected by the small share of children working in these target households (ranging between
    4 to 7 percent in urban and rural areas respectively.




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              3/31/2000                 3     TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
              06/17/2000                5    TASK MANAGER (1); SR.
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1)
              11/06/2000                9    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             CO-TASK MANAGER AND
                                             MONITORING AND
                                             EVALUATION (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL MGT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGT (1); SOCIAL
                                             PARTICIPATION (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); EDUCATION
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/26/2001
              02/26/2001              10     TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             CO-TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             LAWYER (1); OPERATIONS
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (3); FINANCIAL MGT (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENTS (2).
                                             TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             CO-TASK MANAGER M & E;
                                             SOCIAL ASSESSMENT(1);
                                             LEGAL (1); INDIGENOUS (2);
                                             ECONOMIC ANALYSIS (1);
                                             PROJECT ANALYST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1); INSTIT.
                                             ARRANGEMENTS (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGT (1).

 Supervision

              03/22/2002                6    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             CO-TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             BOGOTA MISSION LEADER
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);



                                              - 28 -

                                            CONSULTANT (1)
               12/07/2002              5    TTL (1); LEAD ECONOMIST           S    S
                                            (1); CONSULTANT (3)
               02/19/2003              4    TTL/PROG. COORDINATOR             S    HS
                                            (1); LEAD ECONOMIST (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (2)
               02/20/2004              4    TTL (1); CONSULTANT (1);          S    HS
                                            SR. ECONOMIST (1); FM
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
               07/15/2004              6    TTL (1); HD LEADER (1); SP        S    HS
                                            ECONOMIST (1);
                                            ECONOMIST (1);
                                            OPERATIONAL (1); FORMER
                                            TTL (1)
               10/22/2004              6    TTL (1); SR. ECONOMIST (1);       S    HS
                                            LEAD ECONOMIST (1); CCT
                                            SPECIALIST (1); SP
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            OPERATIONS SPECIALIST (1)
               3/11/2005               6    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS    HS
                                            ECONOMIST (2); SOCIAL
                                            DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); CONSULTANT (2).
               10/25/2005              3    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS    HS
                                            ECONOMIST (1);
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);



 ICR
               03/24/2006             2     OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                            (1); ECONOMIST/
                                            CONSULTANT (1).



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               22                        63,074
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     4                     17,111.14
  Supervision                              83                    353,462.13
  ICR                                       6                        26,586
  Total                                  117                     460,233.27




                                            - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


  1. DAP, FIP, DNP. "Impact Evaluation of Familias en Acción Program ­ Subsidios condicionados de
  la Red de Apoyo Social". Bogotá. December 2004.
  2. IDEA International. "Results-Based Management System (RBM) for Social Programs: A Review of
  International Experiences." Washington, D.C.,The World Bank. 2003.
  3. Kusek, Jody Zall and Ray C. Rist. "Building Results-Based Monitoring and Evaluation Systems:
  Assessing Country Readiness." World Bank PREM-Note. 2004.
  4. Ospina Bozzi, Sonia and Doris Ochoa. "El Sistema Nacional de Evaluación de Resultados de la
  Gestión Pública (SINERGIA) de Colombia," in Nuria Cunill Grau and Sonia Ospina Bozzi,
  Evaluación de Resultados para una Gestión Pública Moderna y Democrática: Experiencias
  Latinoamericanas. Caracas, CLAD. 2003.
  5. World Bank. "Readiness Assessment--Towards Performance-Based Monitoring and Evaluation in
  Mexico." 2005.
  6. SINERGIA, DNP, Direction of Public Policy Evaluation. 2005. Strategic Plan for Strengthening
  and Consolidating Performance-based Monitoring and Evaluation in Colombia.
  7. Jairo Núnez, Silvia Espinoza. Social Assistance in Colombia. Diagnosis and Proposals. 2004.
  8. DNP, SINERGIA, BID y Banco Mundial. Evaluación de Políticas Públicas, No. 1. Condiciones
  iniciales de los beneficiarios e Impactos preliminares. Programa Familias en Acción.     2005.
  9. Luis Carlos Corral. Evaluación y Seguimiento en el Sistema de Protección Social. 2004.
  10. Unión temporal BDO Salud Age, Corporación Centro Regional de Población (CCRP). "Informe
  de resultados de Actividades Proyecto Spotcheck Familias en Acción". Informes 1-4. Bogotá.
  Septiembre 2005.
  11. Agencia Presidencial para la Acción Social y la Cooperación Internacional, "Aprendizaje
  Colectivo", Programas Familias en Acción, Colombia, November 2005.
  12.Ayala, Francisco V, "Lessons Learned from the Design and Implementation of a Conditional
  Cash Transfer Program", Colombian Case ­ Familias en Acción, Ecuador, July 2005.
  13. Colombia Proyecto de Protección Social, "Avances y Novedades del Programa", January 30,
  2006.
  14. Fondo de Inversión Social para la Paz ­ Red de Apoyo Social, "Reglamento Operativo", Santafé
  de Bogotá, July 2000.
  15. Fondo de Inversión para la Paz ­ Red de Apoyo Social, "Informe a la Banca Multilateral Relativo
  al Avance del Proyecto durante el Primer Semestre de 2004", Bogotá, August 2004.
  16. Fondo de Inversión Social para la Paz ­ Red de Apoyo Social, Familias en Acción "Manual
  Operativo", version 5.0, Bogotá, June 2005.
  17. Hernández, Leonardo, "Diagnóstico de la Aplicación del Programa Familias en Acción en
  Grupos Étnicos", World Bank, Bogotá, April 2005.
  18. Red de Apoyo Social, Terms of Reference "Evaluación Externa del Subprograma Familias en
  Acción a Nivel Nacional", Colombia, 2001.
  19. Red de Apoyo Social, "Informe de Avance a Diciembre 31 de 2001", Colombia, April 2002.
  20. The Institute for Fiscal Studies, "Baseline Report on the Evaluation of Familias en Acción".
  21. Unión Temporal IFS-Econometría S.A.-SEI S.A., "Evaluación del Impacto del Programa
  Familias en Acción ­ Subsidios Condicionados de la Red de Apoyo Social", Bogotá, October 2004.
  22. Unión Temporal BDO-CCRP, "Informe V Familias en Acción", Colombia.
  23. Aide Memoires from missions carried out during the life of the project.




                                                  - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Comments

  Objective and Purpose
  As a response to the crisis of the late 1990s, the Colombian State committed itself to the design and
  implementation of programs and projects to mitigate the economic impact on the poorest and most
  vulnerable population. In this context, the Social Safety Net (Red de Apoyo Social-RAS) was put into
  place to serve as a protection mechanism for the vulnerable population, and within which temporary
  programs were formulated, among them FAMILIES IN ACTION.

  The conditional cash transfer program, Families in Action, aims to increase the incomes of the poorest
  families by giving them incentives that allow for a reduction in school absenteeism and complement the
  families' income to improve their nutrition, in order to strengthen the social infrastructure of the
  country. To achieve this goal, the CONPES 3081 of 2000, approved the program and authorized the
  national government to obtain loans from the multilateral bank to fund the program's execution.

  The objective of the program is to provide direct monetary support to children below 18 years of age
  belonging to families with SISBEN 1 classification, in exchange for the fulfillment of conditions. Both
  educational and nutritional grants are provided at the primary and secondary levels.

  From the beginning of the program to December of 2005, 514,502 families have benefited from the
  program, of which 451,672 correspond to SISBEN level 1 families and 62,526 to displaced families.
  Between 2001 and 2005, approximately 1,266,780 minors received shelter, of which 133,934 minors
  belonged to displaced families (including those displaced in 2005). The program reaches 702
  municipalities in 31 departments--62% of the country and 65% of municipalities with less than
  100,000 inhabitants. In the case of displaced families, the Program reached 41 municipalities, among
  which are big and medium-sized urban centers, mostly department capitals.

  Program Implementation
  The program defined an operational cycle as a process dynamically sequenced with two phases: the
  initiation of the program and its sustainability. The first phase deals with the process of linking the
  municipalities and the potentially eligible families. This phase can be broken down into five steps:

  ·    The first two steps correspond to targeting by area and by population, or in other words, to the
  identification of the eligible municipalities that fulfill the program's requirements and to the use of the
  SISBEN database to delimit the number of people who also meet the program's requirements and thus
  should participate.
  ·    Evaluation of the institutional supply of municipal health and education services
  ·    Municipal registration
  ·    First subsidy payment to the beneficiary families

  The sustainability phase alludes to the permanence of the processes that guarantee the achievement of
  the objectives of the program, all of which are included in a continuous system of monitoring and
  evaluation. This phase has six steps:

  ·    Conciliation of subsidy payments
  ·    Verification of fulfillment of conditions
  ·    Processing of new features, complaints and claims
  ·    Promotion of education and health for the family



                                                   - 33 -

·    Social monitoring and participation
·    Second and subsequent subsidy payments

Program execution is coordinated by the Red de Apoyo Social-RAS, and as mentioned in the beginning
of this report, the program is part of the economic and social recovery strategy of the Colombia Plan,
operating under the direction of the Investment Fund for Peace (Fondo de Inversión para la Paz-FIP).
Families in Action began implementation upon the creation of the National Coordination Unit (Unidad
Coordinadora Nacional-UCN) as the executing agency, and the Regional Coordination Units (
Unidades Coordinadores Regionales-UCR) as the liaisons between the central and municipal levels.

Program Execution
Of the US$150 million credit from the World Bank, subsidies paid to beneficiary families made up
approximately 97.5%; 1.7% was spent on goods and 0.8% was used for consulting services, such as
the project's impact and process evaluations, external monitoring and sampling, and the external audit.
The following table shows how the funds of the credit were spent by investment category.

INVESTMENT CATEGORIES              INITIAL                 MODIFICATION                  FINAL
                                  Aug. 23, 2001                                          April 20, 2005
Total Subsidy Payments            122,960,000.00           23,321,902.0                  146,281,902.00
                                                           0
Goods                             7,040,000.00             -4,534,059.00                 2,505,941.00
Consultant Services               11,690,000.00            -10,477,843.0                 1,212,157.00
                                                           0
Unallocated                       8,310,000.00             -8,310,000.00                 0.00


TOTAL                             150,000,000.00           0.00                          150,000,000.00
Source: Finance Department, Investment Fund for Peace - FIP

Program Results
After two years of program operation, the impact evaluation resulted in the following conclusions:

·    91% of program beneficiaries are below the poverty line, calculated according to consumption
·    73% are poor according to the conditions of life index
·    70% are poor according to basic unsatisfied needs
·    Only 9% of program beneficiaries are not poor by definition (using the most inclusive poverty
measurement--the poverty line) and the program's effectiveness of obtaining the objective of reaching
the poor would be 90%.

With respect to the classification of beneficiaries by SISBEN levels and considering that the program
targeted families with SISBEN level 1 classification, according to surveys carried out between 1994
and 1999, the evaluation recalculated the index for the studied representative sample and found the
following distribution:

·    37% of families benefiting from the program belong to SISBEN level 1
·    42% correspond to level 2
·    21% would be classified at level 3 or higher

In the second measurement, the results demonstrated that the conditions of life of the beneficiaries
improved in the following ways:


                                                - 34 -

·   15-19% increase in the consumption of basic goods, mainly for food, shoes, clothes, and school
supplies and transportation
·   Increase in the number of days in the week that children consume 1.2 times the average amount of
protein; those younger than 5 years particularly increased their consumption of milk, eggs and meat
·   Chronic undernourishment in children aged 0 to 2 years in rural areas was reduced by 10%
·   Acute diarrhea was reduced from 21% to 10% in children under 4 years of age in rural areas
·   12% increase of the DPT vaccination in children less than 4 years of age in urban areas
·   12.1% increase in the secondary school attendance rate for children between 12 and 17 years old
rural areas; urban areas registered an increase of 5.9%

Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
Some of the difficulties perceived in the development of the Program are:

·   With respect to the verification of condition fulfillment, the program was designed the same way
for the entire country; nevertheless, as coverage was extended and the program reached the most
isolated areas of the country, where these programs are really needed, the difficulty in fulfilling this
task in the same way in all areas became obvious.
·   The application for payment was designed so rigidly that constant improvements have been
necessary.
·   Changes in government significantly affected the payments resulting in delays in program
implementation.
·   Changes in mayors and municipal leaders affected the development of the program, because it
results in higher costs for operational training.
·   The income restriction for minors in the first level of primary.
·   The non-update of SISBEN by municipalities when processing enrollments.
·   The population mobility dynamics of the country.
·   The continuous problems of violence that are manifested in the disruption of public order.
·   Initially, the plan called for the active participation of the ICBF, which offered not only its physical
facilities for the UCR but also its personnel for project implementation. This activity was partially
fulfilled in the development of the program.

Lessons Learned
·   The verification of the fulfillment of conditions, assumed to be a situation of social
co-responsibility, in which each actor assumes a specific function, in accordance with his/her rights and
obligations.
·   The verification of the fulfillment of conditions motivates the collective action of both civil society
and municipal institutions towards the accumulation of human and social capital.




                                                   - 35 -

Additional Annex 9. Implementation Arrangements - Familias en Acción

The design of the Familias program responds well to the decentralized nature of Colombia's social sectors:

  l A central coordinating unit was established in the Presidency to oversee and guide program
       implementation. As noted in Section 4.2, the Familias NCU proved exceptionally flexible,
       effective, and creative in setting up the program and also at responding to unexpected situations
       (i.e., the initial low uptake of the program; the freeze on payments). The unit also made good use
       of the results of the IE, convincing the new President that the program was not only worth keeping,
       but important to expand. The program's transparency and adherence to the operational manual has
       been exceptional. The NCU has delivered progress reports and other evaluations in a timely
       manner, has published several books and videos documenting the evolution and results of the
       program, and maintains a website with information and results of the program and its evaluations.

  l In addition, Familias established Regional Coordinators (one in each departmental capital) who
       serve as a link between the national and the municipal level and whose responsibility is, inter alia,
       to supervise the diligent implementation of the program at the municipal level and make sure there
       is fluent communication between all levels.

  l Local governments play a key role in the program's implementation. To enter into the program, a
       municipality is required to appoint a liaison officer (Enlace Municipal, EM) in charge of
       coordinating the implementation of the Familias program at the municipal level. The EMs have
       proven key to the implementation of the program as their responsibilities involve everything from
       collection of verification forms to organizing training for beneficiary mothers and coordinating
       payment dates.

  l EMs are intensively supported by Madres Líderes, or Leader Mothers, who are beneficiary women
       elected by a group of about 60 mothers to represent their interests at the municipal level. Spot
       checks and evaluation reports show that Leader Mothers' role has been critical in organizing
       benefiting families, following up on compliance records, arranging the regular meetings and
       trainings for women, and overall in empowering participating women.

  l Another interesting aspect of the implementation of the Familias program, compared to some other
       CCT programs in the region, is that key services were outsourced to the private sector rather than
       implemented by the program itself. For example, the program contracted an external firm to
       manage the entire verification process, including the printing of forms and the processing of the
       compliance information based on which then payments are authorized by the national level
       coordinating unit. Similarly, the program contracted 7 private banks to handle all cash payments to
       beneficiaries. This has proven to be a very efficient and transparent way of payments since only the
       benefiting mother can receive the cash, and the program has established very tight deadlines for
       these banks to make payments and return any uncollected funds after 25 days at the latest.

  l Coordination with the supply side of health and education services carried out through local
       governments who are responsible for the provision of these services. The Familias program
       worked with the NPD, the National Education Plan, and the Department of Public Health targets to
       establish whether a municipality is able to meet service demand before admitting it into the
       program.      In some municipalities that temporarily did not provide sufficient supply of these
       services, the Familias program decided to interrupt payments until the services were reestablished.



                                                   - 36 -

l Coordination with the ICBF was not as intensive as expected at inception. This institute, which is
    financed by an earmarked payroll tax, is implementing an array of social programs, including the
    "hogares comunitarios" children's day care program. To ensure collaboration between these
    programs and Familias, it was agreed that they should share the regional offices that ICBF had in
    place, and that ICBF should provide Familias with some logistical and staff support. This only
    worked in some offices. In others, collaboration was minimal due to a reduction of ICBF staff
    during the same period. As a consequence, the cooperation between beneficiaries, local
    governments, and regional coordinators (in ICBF or Presidency's regional offices) became
    stronger, with the local government officials in the driver seat of implementation.

In accordance with national regulation, but also beyond, the implementing agency put in place a
comprehensive control and evaluation system to timely monitor the performance of the program and
ensure its accountability.




                                               - 37 -

- 38 -

