Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21608-CO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
HUMAN CAPITAL PROTECTION
PROJECT
MARCH 1, 2001
Human and Social Development Group
Country Managment Unit for Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 19, 2000)
Currency Unit = Colombian Pesos (COP)
Colombian Peso $2,179.13 = US$1.00
US$0.00045891 = I ColombianPeso
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BR      Bank of the Republic/Banco de la Repoblica         LACI   Loan Administration Change Initiative
CAF    Andean Development Bank                             MIS    Management Information System
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                         MOE   Ministry of Education/Ministerio de Educaci6n
CASEN  Socioeconomic Characteristics SurveylEncuesta de    MOH   Ministry of Health/Ministerio de Salud
Caracterizacion Socioeconomica
DAPR   Administrative Department of the President/ Departamento NCU    National Coordinating Unit
Administralivo de la Presidencia de la Repoblica
DGTN   National Treasury                                   NGO    Non-governmental Organization
DNP    National Planning DepartmentfDepartamento Nacional de  NPV    Net present value
Planificaci6n
ECV    Quality of Life Survey/Encuesta Calidad de Vida     PETI   Child Labor Erradication Program/Programa de Erradicaci6n de
Trabajo Infantil.
EG      Education Grant                                    PMR    Project Management Report
FIP     Investment Fund for Peace/Fondo de Inversi6n para la Paz RAS    Colombia's Social Safety NetlRed de Apoyo Social
FOREC  Regional Reconstruction Fund for earthquake-hit areas/    RCU    Regional Coordination Unit
Fondo para la Reconstruccion y Desarrollo Social del Eje
Cafeter
GDP    Gross Domestic Product                              SA      Special Account
|GOC    Government of Colombia                             SENA   National Learning Service/Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
HN    |Health/Nutrition Grant                              SIIF    Integrated Financial Information System
IBRD   |International Bank for Reconstruction and Development   SISBEN Beneficiary Selection System for Soial Programs/Sistema de
Seleccion de Beneficiarios de Programas Sociales
ICB     International Competitive Bidding                  SOE    Statement of Expenditures
ICBF    Colombian Institue of Family WelfarelInstituto     SSAL   Social Sector Adjustment Loan
Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar
ICV     Quality of Life Indicator/Indice de Calidad de Vida  TOR    Terms of Reference
1DB     Inter-american Development Bank                    RAIS   Registry of Inidividual Health Care/Registro de Atenci6n
______ _____________________________________ _____Individual en Salud
IMF     International Monetary Fund                                Individual_en_Salud
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Olivier Lafourcade
Director:    Xavier Coll
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Vicente B. Paqueo



COLOMBIA
HUMAN CAPITAL PROTECTION
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    12
3. Benefits and target population                                                   13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                       20
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       23
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                         24
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 26
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      26
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        27
2. Financial                                                                        27
3. Technical                                                                        27
4. Institutional                                                                    28
5. Environmental                                                                    28
6. Social                                                                           29
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               29
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   30
2. Critical risks                                                                   31
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   34



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           34
2. Other                                                                             34
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         35
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        35
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         36
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   43
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        45
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  46
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              51
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      52
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    59
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  60
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 61
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           63
Annex 11: Financial Management Action Plan                                              65
Annex 12: Indigenous Peoples Development Plan                                           66
MAP(S)



COLOMBIA
Human Capital Protection
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSHS
Date: March 1, 2001                               Team Leader: Vicente B. Paqueo
Country Manager/Director: Olivier Lafourcade      Sector Manager/Director: Xavier E. Coil
Project ID: P069964                               Sector(s): SA - Social Assistance
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Social Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan    [I  Credit    [ ] Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 150.0
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                                Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.85% p.a. first 4                     Service charge: 0.00%
years; 0.75% p.a. thereafter
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
financing Plian:       3       ouc
BORROWER                                                      174.84          14.84        189.68
IBRD                                                          136.97          13.03        150.00
INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK                                77.50           6.73         84.23
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING              31.09           0.00         31.09
COUNTRY
Total:                                                       420.40           34.60        455.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
Responsible agency: DAPRE-FIP, OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENCY
Address: BogotA, Colombia
Contact Person: Manuel Salazar
Tel: (57-1)-334-9763; 334-4405; 334-0031             Fax: (57-1)-334-0221                Email:
ml salazargdnp.gov.co
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
2001 20021=  2003 004
Annual   16.79       52.76      54.37      26.08
Cumulative    16.79      69.55     123.92     150.00
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
XS P#D h * D   



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
The goal of the Project is to alleviate the impact of Colombia's current economic crisis on the most
vulnerable by protecting and promoting poor children's human capital. This would be accomplished by
supporting poor families' investments in their 0-17 year old children's health, nutrition, and education in the
face of sharply reduced incomes. To this effect, the Project would support Familias en Acci6n (Families in
Action), the family assistance sub-program of the Government of Colombia's (GOC) new Red de Apoyo
Social (RAS) safety net strategy. The RAS also includes Empleo en Acci6n (a temporaty employment
sub-program) and J6venes en Accion (a youth training program). The three sub-programs in the RAS will
be financed for three years and constitute Colombia's principal response to protecting the poor from the
worst effects of the economic crisis. The three year limit on Familias en Acci6n and the other RAS
sub-programs follows the GOC's strong opposition to the establishment of an entitlement program.
In support of Familias en Acci6n, the Project would finance the provision of two kinds of conditional cash
transfers to nuclear families in the lowest strata of Colombia's proxy means testing system, SISBEN.
Families in SISBEN I belong approximately to the poorest quintile of the income distribution. Through
these grants, the Project would allow families to avoid coping mechanisms that are damaging to the future
earnings of their children such as reducing the intake of nutritious food and pulling children out of school,
two coping mechanisms that have already been documented as crisis response mechanisms.
a   A health/nutrition (HN) grant would be provided to eligible families with 0-6 year old children who
are not benefiting from the community nutrition and pre-school programs run by the Instituto
Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar (ICBF, Colombian Institute of Family Welfare). Families would
receive the cash transfer as long as they comply with agreed HN requirements. The HN grant would
require parents to bring their children aged 0-6 to health clinics for scheduled growth monitoring. In
the clinics the children would receive the basic health services provided by the health system, including
immunization, as established by the GOC's health regulations and as a condition for municipal
participation in the Project. The clinic-based health services would be supported by health and nutrition
counseling sessions. The grants would be issued to the mothers of the 0-6 year old children.
*  An education grant (EG) would be provided to each eligible child aged 7-17 years old who is
registered in school, maintains at least an 80 percent attendance rate and does not repeat a grade more
than once. The grants would be issued to the mothers of the primary and secondary school students.
Over a million poor Colombian children are expected to benefit from the Project. These children belong to
families whose income and assets are so low that even during normal economic times they have very little
resources to cushion the impact of idiosyncratic shocks. Although social assistance programs exist to help
these families, they are poorly targeted and have a limited capacity to flexibly respond to large covariant
shocks. Given the depth of the current economic crisis and the inadequacy of the social safety net, the fear
is that the crisis could have an irreversible impact on the well-being of those children. Apart from its
immediate impact on their present consumption, the crisis threatens to reduce the existing low levels of
family investments in their children's human capital. In particular, it threatens to undermine poor families'
ability to adequately invest in their children's basic health and education. The consequence is that for many
of those children, their future ability to escape the cycle of poverty could become even more difficult,
depending on the duration of the crisis and the Government's ability to strengthen its social safety net. In
this regard, available evidence indicates that although limited to at most three years during this time of
- 2 -



crisis, the temporaty assistance contemplated by Familias en Acci6n could indeed prevent deterioration of
(if not improve) the education, health and nutrition of poor children. These human development outcomes
are expected in turn to generate "permanent income" effects.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Amnex 1)
Project impact and outputs will be assessed by the following measurable impact and outcome indicators.
These will be generated by a combination of survey data, monitoring indicators and qualitative assessments
described in Annex 1.
a) Outcome I lmpact Indicators:
Project impact will be assessed through an evaluation comparing a representative sample of Project
beneficiaries to a comparison group with similar characteristics, using baseline and follow-up surveys. The
comparison group will provide a counterfactual for what would have occurred had the Project not been
implemented. The comparison of actual outcomes to the counterfactual outcomes will establish the net
Project impact.
As mentioned, the Project seeks to prevent deterioration of human capital by focusing on the protection of
the health and education status of the beneficiaries and the improvement of participating mothers'
lnowledge and application of health and child care practices that lead to household level welfare
improvements. Baseline data from the impact evaluation satisfactory to the Bank will be provided by
December 31, 2001.
The following impact indicators will be measured by comparing the treatment to the control groups, before
and after the intervention, to obtain net changes:
(i) Health/Nutrition Grants
- Net change in the % of children brought to health centers for preventive care (target: > or = 0)
- Net change in children age 0-6 with complete immunization scheme (target: > or = 0)
- Net change in children age 0-6 complying with regular growth and health monitoring (target: > or = 0)
- Net change in nutritional status (as measured through anthropometric indicators) of children age 0-3
(target: > or = 0)
(ii) Education Grants
- Net change in school attendance (target: > or = 0)
- Net change in school dropout (target: < or = 0)
- Net change in school enrollment (target: > or = 0)
- Net change in transition rate, especially grades 1-2, 5-6 and 9-10 (target: > or = 0)
b) Output Indicators: The Project's Management Information System will be used to track actual
compared to estimated number of beneficiaries, together with the amount disbursed, overall and between
beneficiaries of different types of grants. These estimates will be updated during the Pilot phase based on
the actual numbers of eligible beneficiaries, as registered in participating municipalities' SISBEN systems.
- Estimated number of eligible families receiving:
Primary education grant only (target = 30,700; 8% of beneficiary families)
Secondary education grant only (42,400; 11% of beneficiary families)
Nutrition grant only (target = 67,500; 17% of beneficiary families)
Nutrition and primary education (target = 76,100; 19% of beneficiary families)
-3 -



Nutrition and secondary education (target = 38,200; 100/e of beneficiary families)
Primary and secondary (target = 57,700; 15% of beneficiary families)
All three subsidies (target = 83,700; 21% of beneficiary families)
- Average monthly benefit (US$) of families receiving:
Primary education grant only ($13)
Secondary education grant only ($18)
Nutrition grant only ($20)
Nutrition and primary education grants ($34)
Nutrition and secondary education grants ($38)
Primary and secondary education grants ($30)
All three grants ($53)
- Number of children (as opposed to families above) benefiting from:
Nutrition grant (target = 472,500)
Primary education grant (target = 378,900)
Secondary education grant (target = 339,281)
Efficiency
Percentage of loan going to education and nutrition grants (target 66%)
Percentage of grant recipients in lowest income quintile (target=90%)
Compliance rate of participating municipalities with municipal-level immunization coverage targets
(target-"90%)
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17107-CO         Date of latest CAS discussIon: 11/18/99
The CAS Progress Report dated November 1, 1999 states that "in order to alleviate the impact of the
current economic crisis on the poor, the Government has identified the segments of the population that have
been hit the hardest by the crisis, including the unemployed poor, young entrants into the labor market,
female heads of households, children, the elderly, and those displaced by the ongoing internal conffict; these
people are mostly in the poorest two deciles of the population. In response to the problems of these
vulnerable groups, the Government is now designing, together with the Bank and the IDB, programs to
provide basic social services targeted to this population." The above CAS report further states that the
Bank is "undertaking operational and analytical work to support the Government's effort to ameliorate the
social impact of the current economic crisis on the poor... [It] is preparing two lending operations to
support immediate strengthening and expansion of the social safety net framework (e.g. protection of the
vulnerable by creating jobs and training, low-income housing, and providing safe water and sanitation)."
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Colombia is experiencing its worst economic performance in over 60 years, compounded by an ongoing
internal conflict. GDP growth has decreased from an average of 3-4 percent during the first half of the
1990s to 0.6 percent in 1998 and - 4.5 percent in 1999. This decline has been accompanied by
deterioration in nearly all other areas of the economy: (i) the fiscal accounts of the non-financial public
sector, which were roughly balanced in the early 1990s, showed a deficit of 3.7 percent of GDP in 1998,
rising to 5.5 percent of GDP in 1999; and (ii) the current account of the balance of payments reached a
deficit of 5.7 percent of GDP in 1998, although it fell to 1.1 percent of GDP in 1999 as a result of a sharp
-4 -



decline in imports and an increase in oil revenues. The Colombian economy has begun to show signs of
recovery, with GDP growing at above 3 percent in 2000. Nevertheless, the increase in unemployment and
poverty arising from the economic crisis remains a grave concern and the restoration of a fiscal balance
while protecting the welfare of the poor and vulnerable continues to be a serious challenge. These economic
difficulties are complicated by costly conflicts with the guerrillas and other violent elements in Colombia.
A.    Main Sector lssues
Effects of the crisis on employment, poverty and income inequality
High unemployment. In June 2000, Colombia's unemployment rate reached a historic high of 20.4
percent, almost double its traditional rate of 11 percent. Government data reveal that most of the affected
are young workers in urban areas, who are accessing the labor market for the first time. Of the
approximately three million unemployed workers, about a third are located in the seven largest cities.
Growing poverty and income inequality. Colombia's poor economic performance has resulted in a
worsening of most social and economic indicators. Data indicate that the gains made in terms of poverty
reduction have been lost as a result of the recession. Poverty and extreme poverty rates had been decreasing
almost continuously since the 1970s when the country was growing relatively rapidly. But during the
second half of the 1990's, extreme poverty --defined in terms of an individual's inability to meet basic
caloric requirements - in the urban areas has increased by more than 4 percentage points. The extreme
poverty rate in urban areas was around 10 percent in 1995, and after the crisis it increased to 11.5 in 1998
and 14.5 in 1999. As for the poverty rate, which was around 48 percent in 1995 and 1998 (down from 70
percent in 1978 and 55 percent in 1988), it increased almost 8 percentage points in 1999.
T'he crisis has affected both the rural and urban population, but there are indications that urban areas were
more heavily affected. Based on the information contained in the last two national surveys (CASEN 1993
and ECV 1997) a striking increase in the incidence of urban poverty is observed, while poverty in rural
sectors seems to have decreased.
Similar behavior is observed with regards to income inequality: in the urban areas the lowest quintile
suffered a 50 percent loss in income participation while it remained approximately constant among the
rural population. Other income distribution parameters like the Gini coefficient show an increase in income
inequality in urban areas. Although poverty in rral areas is more widespread, it is in urban areas where the
situation has deteriorated relatively more. The Gini coefficient increased during the 1990s, but between
1998 and 1999 it increased almost two percentage points, to 0.55.
An additional indicator of welfare, the Indice de Calidad de Vida (ICV), shows a negative impact among
the poorer groups. The ICV is an index of welfare that incorporates a number of factors like access to
public services, present and potential human capital, and variables measuring quality of life. After 1996 the
ICV shows a worsening of conditions for the lower deciles of the population. Again this is worse in urban
than in rural areas.
Inadequate and deteriorating investment in human and social capital
Decline in education. Basic education in Colombia is stili far from being universal, especially among the
poor many of whom drop out before completing primary education. Moreover children in the poorest
quintiles are entering the school system late and falling behind while enrolled; only 17 percent are in the
correct grade for their age, compared to the population average of 38 percent. Furthermore, dropout rate
- 5 -



remains high and learning achievement among the poor needs improvement. Given these education
challenges, any deterioration or threat against the education of the poor should be viewed with grave
concem.
The National Planning Department (DNP) estimates that enrollment rate among 7-11 year old children
from the poorest income decile decreased from 87.3 percent in 1996 to 83.2 percent in 1998. For the
second poorest decile, the decline was from 89.7 percent to 85.9 percent. During the same period, the
enrollment rates of 12-17 year olds also fell among the poorest quintile from 66.3 to 64.6 percent. The
education effect could be greater after 1998. As the crisis continues, poor families are likely to run out of
options, pulling children out of school to save money and augment current disposable income. Resorting to
this short term coping mechanism, however, has long term consequences on the accumulation of human
capital and poor children's ability to break out of the intergenerational cycle of poverty.
There is also evidence of a decrease in the quality of education received by children. As some middle
income families become poor due to the economic crisis, they pull their children from private schools and
send them to public schools, a phenomenon observed recently in Colombia. There are other possible
educational effects that have not been captured yet by available data. ln this regard, it should be noted that
one of the education-related responses to similar crises elsewhere includes a decrease in time children spent
doing their homework or studying, as they go into the labor market to help their families.
Reduction in the capacity of the health system to subsidize the poor. Colombia has a health insurance
system in which the poor are subsidized. Despite the achievements of the country's health reform program,
which include rising number of individuals affiliated to the system since 1993 (in both the subsidized and
non-subsidized tiers), many of the poor are not enrolled in the system. As a result of the crisis, the number
of individuals contributing actively to the health insurance system, dropped significantly. Between 1998
and 1999 the number of active/regular contributors went from 63 to 47 percent. A decrease in the number
of active contributors puts additional strain on the finances of the subsidized scheme, as cross subsidy
becomes more difficult.
Declines In food consumption among the poor. A household survey performed by FEDESARROLLO in
Colombia's four largest cities suggests that the consumption of certain food items has decreased
significantly during the crisis. Close to 40 percent of sampled households reported a drop in consumption in
1999 relative to the previous year. Food consumption went down 6 percent during the first half of 1999
compared to the first half of 1998.
Reversal of gains in social spending. During the 1990s public expenditure on social sectors more than
doubled. However in 1999 the amount of social expenditures decreased for the first time in the decade, by
approximately 5 percent compared to 1998 levels. The main decrease has been in the education sector,
where expenditure levels decreased about 10 percent In 1999 social spending (without pensions) amounted
to 11 percent of GDP, including expenditures on health, education, ICBF, SENA, and other sectors.
Colombia's health and education expenditures stand at around 2.5 and 4.2 percent of GDP, respectively,
relatively low levels by Latin American standards.
Inadequate and inefficient social safety net
Reliance on strong economic growth rates has historically served as Colombia's principal social safety net
The present economic crisis has underscored the absence of an effective social safety net that can respond
quickly and efficiently to dramatic declines in income and employment. The crisis has established the
urgent need for, first, identifying social assistance mechanisms well-suited to helping the poor cope with the
- 6 -



negative effects of the crisis. This is the objective of the Red de Apoyo Social (RAS) programs. Second,
the crisis calls for a re-examination of the battery of largely disarticulated safety net programs and the
crafting of a social protection strategy that will help Colombia be better prepared to respond to future
crises. This is part of the analytical work presently being carried out by the Bank in collaboration with the
GOC in preparation for a Social Sector Adjustment operation (SSAL) in FY02.
The need for re-examining the social assistance programs and developing more efficient and credible
altematives is illustrated by their mixed accomplishments. Some programs like Hogares Comunitarios de
Bienestar of ICBF, which aims at improving the nutritional and health status of low income children under
seven years of age, seem to be well targeted but produce poor results. A problem seems to be the lack of
coordination among programs as well their being supply driven. Some programs have been designed with
geographical criteria, others have been targeted to specific groups, but there is no detailed knowledge of the
interactions among them, overlapping objectives and target populations. Another example of a program
whose effectiveness and efficiency have been seriously questioned, is the Red de Solidaridad Social
essentially a social fund (in structure) established in the mid-1990s. From 1994 to 1998 it reached close to
four million individuals through different programs, like Revivir, which provides assistance to the
vulnerable elderly, or Desplazados, to provide assistance to households that have been displaced by the
violence in Colombia. The problem is that it has shown inadequate strategic and programmatic focus,
lacked monitoring and evaluation capacity, and failed to retain qualified personnel. The weaknesses were
reasons for rejecting the Red as implementing agency of the Community Works and Employment Project. A
further example is SENA, a training and information agency that administers about Ill training centers and
29 employment information centers. Various studies have questioned the efficiency with which training
funds (financed by a payroll tax) are allocated and used.
B.    Government Strategy
Clearly, the current economic crisis has exposed serious weaknesses in the structure and management of
Colombia's economic system and established the need to quickly respond to the immediate impact of the
crisis on the poor. This situation has led the GOC to launch on the macroeconomic front a stabilization
package with the IMF to address the present fiscal imbalance. The GOC is also identifying needed reforms
to structurally underpin the IMF program in the near future. On the microeconomic front, the recent drop
in school enroUlment and rise in poverty and instability has compelled the GOC to (i) undertake an
immediate response to cushion the poor and vulnerable from the worst effects of the crisis and (ii) find
innovative ways to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of Colombia's existing social safety net in
order to better prepare for future crises. These steps are being undertaken, while at the same time GOC is
pursuing peace initiatives under Plan Colombia to address the above mentioned intemal conflict
The situation in Colombia calls for a two-staged approach to be carried out on both the macro and
microeconomic fronts: a short-term crisis response action plan and a medium-term reform strategy.
As an immediate response to the crisis, GOC has agreed to implement the IMF adjustment program and
complementary measures to establish an environment conducive to economic recovery. The GOC has also
initiated a review of key sectoral issues affecting the country's macroeconomic stability. Simultaneously, it
is launching the Red de Apoyo Social (RAS), a social safety net program composed of three
complementary programs aimed at helping the poor cope with unemployment and reduced income.
As mentioned, these programs consist of: (i) a community works subprogram called Empleo en Acci6n
(Employment in Action), which aims to provide temporary employment to poor, unemployed, unskldled
workers; (ii) a family assistance program for poor families called Familias en Acci6n (Families in Action)
-7 -



that is designed to give cash assistance to the poor on condition that they keep their children in school and
provide them with basic preventive health care; and (iii) a training/apprenticeship program for young adults
based on competitive bidding among private firms called Jovenes en Acci6n (Youth in Action). The RAS
complements the objectives and social policies established in the National Development Plan 1999-2002,
which seeks economic and social changes that would promote the establishment of peace in Colombia. To
implement the RAS, GOC is determined to spend an additional 0.3 percent of GDP per year (about
US$250-$300 million annually), over and above current public social expenditures, to be targeted to the
provision of social safety net programs in 2000-2004.
In the medium term, the GOC intends to implement structural reforms to ensure fiscal stability by
addressing the underlying causes of Colombia's economic problems. This reform agenda would most likely
include adjustments in the pension, territorial transfer, tax, privatization, banking and oil stabilization
systems. Simultaneously, the GOC will also seek to reform the social safety net to give it the flexibility
needed to deliver rapid assistance to those most affected by future severe economic downturns.
The Bank, the IDB, and CAF are supporting the GOC's needs, vision and strategy in both the short and
medium term. They have pledged to support the RAS through a series of lending operations and analytical
work. The Board approved on May 11, 2000, the Empleo en Acci6n Community Works and Employment
Project ($100 million) to support the RAS in establishing its temporary employment subprogram through
the financing of small, labor-intensive public works projects. This proposed Project would add another
$150 million to financing of the RAS to support the Familias en Acci6n. The Inter-American Development
Bank (IBD) has just approved a $270.0 million loan, which is intended to co-finance in paraUel the
above-mentioned subprograms and the Jovenes en Acci6n training program for young adults.
In support of GOC's medium-term goals, a Social Sector Adjustment Loan (SSAL) is planned for FY 02 to
address structural issues relating to social assistance, health, education and employment in an effort to
develop a more coherent and multifaceted social protection and poverty alleviation program for the medium
to long term. To lay the ground for the SSAL, various studies are now being undertaken, including
updating of the Bank's poverty assessment of Colombia and analyses of structural and policy issues
regarding social assistance programs, Colombia's decentralized social sector financing system, and the
labor market. The preparation of the SSAL is being closely coordinated with preparation of a parallel
mnacroeconomic/fiscal adjustment operation, which would complement the IMF program by addressing the
structural underpinnings of the fiscal crisis.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Poverty alleviation and human capital accumulation. It should be clear from the above discussion that
although it is part of a broader strategy that seeks to deal with both causes and effects of the crisis, this
Project taken by itself aims to address only the impact of the crisis on the poor. Specifically, it aims to
mitigate the deleterious effects of the crisis on children's human capital accumulation brought on by poor
families' reduced spending on food, health and education as a result of shortfalls in income. It is apparent
that the coping strategies of the poor have resulted in socially sub-optimal behavior like pulling children out
of schools, reducing children's nutrition and other responses that decrease their future productivity. The
Project, which has been inspired by Mexico's PROGRESA and Brazil's Bolsa Escola, is an effective way
of providing short term social assistance to poor families, while at the same time producing long lasting
benefits in the form of increased future productivity that relatively better child nutrition, health and
education bring.
-8 -



Other strategic choices considered
A variety of choices were considered in the project design phase, but ultimately rejected because of the
inadequacies of existing programs and/or the need for an immediate response to the crisis.
(a) Flnancing a diverse set of existing programs: It was considered initially to finance a variety of old
and new projects, which included public infrastructure projects to generate employment, initiatives for
micro, small and medium scale enterprises, micro-credit, soup kitchens, expansion of ICBF program for
0-2 year olds, education loans, and social programs for senior citizens. This proposal was rejected because
it was unfocused and was deemed too complicated, risky and time consuming to prepare. Instead, it was
agreed to concentrate on temporary employment generation and provision of conditional cash assistance to
poor families - initiatives that were found to be cost-effective in Argentina (Trabajar) and Mexico
(PROGRESA).
(b) Supply-based assistance. Given the issues mentioned above about the inadequacies of existing social
assistance programs which are predominantly supply-driven, the strategic choice was made not to finance
the expansion of any of them. Specifically, it was decided to use Bank financial support to develop a
credible altemative to supply-driven poverty alleviation approaches -- one that is based on household
choices and reward the performance of beneficiary families for achieving certain socially desirable
accomplishments such as keeping children's health and education. The Bank recognizes, however, that
certain localities need to improve their education and health services capacity to meet anticipated increased
demand. Consequently, GOC decided to condition program participation of municipalities on their
readiness to supply needed health and education services. Municipalities that currently have inadequate
supply capacity would have to sign an agreement with the Project to provide necessary improvements.
(c) Sequencing: The option was considered to include both the workfare and conditional subsidy to poor
families in a single loan operation, in order to assist not only able-bodied poor workers, but also those that
could not take advantage of public employment programs (e.g., children, the elderly). This option was
rejected on the grounds that Project implementation would be too complicated, which would hinder the
ability of GOC to respond quickly to the urgent needs of the unemployed poor. The choice was made
instead to proceed first with the employment-generation project, which could be prepared quickly, while
concurrently designing a conditional family health and education grant project, which would require more
time in preparation. In this regard, GOC sent some staff to Mexico to study PROGRESA while the
Community Works and Employment Project was rapidly prepared for Board approval last fiscal year.
(d) Geographic focus: Targeting only urban areas was considered as an option, taking into account the
disproportionate impact of the present economic crisis in urban areas as well as the problem of
implementing direct cash transfers to families in rural areas without a bank. However, it was decided that
the Project would include rural communities because of: their high structral levels of poverty which have
been exacerbated by the crisis; the concentration of the two other RAS programs in urban areas, and
because of the opportunity to test a mechanism for efficiently addressing poverty through demand-side
subsidies in both urban and rural areas. The conditional health and education grant program will begin with
a pilot in urban and rural communities to minimize risk. From their experience, wider implementation of
conditional subsidies would be developed accordingly.
(e) Exclusion issues: The model adopted under this project can be implemented relatively rapidly, using
available resources including the SISBEN proxy means testing system, the existence of a network of banks
in most areas of Colombia and the presence of a national network of ICBF offices. However, the same
-9-



features that make the project model implementable over a relatively short time frame also limit its
application in certain geographical areas and among certain populations. The project will not reach
populations without access to a bank (estimated to be approximately 12% of the Colombian population) or
populations that have not been surveyed under SISBEN such as indigenous communities that have not
adopted the SISBEN system. In addition, poor families in conflict areas are unlikely to be included in the
Project due to security reasons (GOC, however, has other programs for these areas as well as for the
displaced population). Needed refinements to allow the project to reach these excluded populations will be
studied during project implementation.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Project consists of six components (see table below).
(i) The first component (US$48.86 million) is the Educational Grants (EG). This would finance
scholarships for children aged 7-17 years old belonging to families with SISBEN I classification.
Beneficiary families would receive the education grant during the duration of the project (three years) for as
long as they are enrolled in primary or secondary schools, maintain a class attendance rate of not less than
80 percent, and do not repeat a grade more than once. Each education beneficiary would receive a monthly
stipend per eligible child amounting to US$6 per month and US$12 per month for primary (grades 2-5) and
secondary (grades 6-11) school students, respectively. These amounts are equivalent to households' average
direct education expenditures. This component also includes the direct costs charged by financial
institutions in Colombia to deliver the education grants to poor families, amounting to approximately
US$ 1.6 million (3% percent of the total amount allocated for the education grants). These direct costs will
be financed by the Bank.
(u) The second component (US$74.10 million) is the Health/Nutrition Grant (RN). This component
would finance direct cash grants to eligible (SISBEN 1) families with 0-6 year old children, who are not in
the community nutrition and pre-school program (Hogares Comunitarios de Bienestar) of the Instituto
Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar (ICBF, Colombian Institute of Family Welfare). Selected families
would receive the grant for as long as they comply with agreed health/nutrition requirements. The HN grant
would require parents to bring their children aged 0-6 to health clinics for scheduled growth monitoring. In
the clinics the children would receive the basic health services provided by the health system, including
imnmunization, as established by the GOC's health regulations and as a condition for municipal participation
in the Project. The clinic-based health services would be supported by health and nutrition counseling
sessions. The grants would be issued to the mothers of the 0-6 year old children. To avoid incentives to
fertility and recognizing the economies of scale in families' food consumption, the HN grant would be set at
US$20 per month per eligible family with a 0-6 year old child regardless of the number of children. On
average this amount represents about $13 per child aged 0-6 years old per month. The grant of US$20 is
more or less equal to the gap between the cost of a basic food basket for determining the poverty line and
the average income of indigent families. The amount indicates a conservative estimate of the additional
direct food and health expenditures needed by an average indigent family to keep their preschool children
well nourished and healthy -- and avoid human capital development failures. This component also includes
the direct costs charged by financial institutions in Colombia to deliver the health and nutrition grants to
poor families, amounting to approximately US$2.5 million (3% percent of the total amount allocated for
the health and nutrition grants). These direct costs will be financed by the Bank.
- 1 0 -



The health/nutrition as well as education grant per beneficiary would be given in Colombia pesos, but the
amount would be calculated in US dollars to maintain the real value of the peso-denominated grant over
the years. The selection of grant beneficiaries and the verification of compliance with requirements of their
receipt would be done in accordance with procedures and criteria to be established in the Operations
Manual satisfactory to the Bank (condition of effectiveness).
(iii) The Project Management component (US$13.78 million) would finance the operational activities of
the temporary National Coordinating Unit (NCU). These costs would partly be shared by the Empleo en
Acci6n Community Works and Employment project. A breakdown of the services to be shared among
programs can be found in the project files.
(iv) The Monitoring and Evaluation component (US$1.63 million) would finance the external review and
evaluation of the performance and impact of the project.
(v) The Promotion and Dissemination component (US$3.32 million) would finance public relation and
information campaign activities, which would be carried out through television, radio, and print media
(newspapers as well as posters, brochures, billboards, etc.) Consultants would be hired for six months to
design and carry out these activities. They would also develop and organize national and local workshops
for technical and administrative staff and other program stakeholders (e.g., mayors).
(vi) The Health, Education, and Nutrition Services Delivery component (no Bank financing) consists of
education, health and nutrition services provided by involved public institutions to eligible Project
beneficiaries in the participating municipalities receiving Bank-financed grants. This amount of US$206.25
million is recognized by the Bank as an in-kind contribution from the national and local governments in
Colombia. The in-kind contribution includes vaccinations, teacher salaries, and public education
campaigns, among other items. A list of the government programs included in this estimate can be found in
the project files.
There will also be an unallocated amount of US$8.31 million, which is mainly in place to account for the
uncertainty in the uptake of health and education grants. The front-end fee of US$1.50 million will be
financed separately by the GOC.
The Familias en Acci6n conditional subsidy program would have a total loan funding of $234.23 million
from the Bank and 1DB. This Project would contribute US$150 million, while IDB's Apoyo Familiar
would provide another US$84.2 million. The total Project cost (US$366.92 million), excluding 1DB
financing shown below includes a portion of the estimated value of the in-kind contribution of ICBF and the
local governments, as well as World Bank financing (the table does not include IDB financing). The EG
and HNG components would be financed 100 percent by both Banks. The other components would be
wholly or partly funded by counterpart resources. Project management, including monitoring and
evaluation as well as promotion and dissemination, would constitute roughly 8 percent of total Project
costs. Bank financing of these components constitutes 12.5 percent of the Bank loan.
-11 -



(1) Education Grants (EG)*                            48.86      13.2     48.86       32.6
(2) Health/Nutrition Grants (HNG)*                    74.10      20.0     74.10       49.4
(3) Project Management                                26.79       7.2     13.78        9.2
(4) Monitoring and Evaluation                          1.63       0.4      1.63        1.1
(5) Promotion and Dissemination                        3.32       0.9      3.32        2.2
(6) Health, education, and nutrition                 206.25      55.6      0.00        0.0
services delivery**
(7) Unallocated                                        8.31       2.2      8.31        5.5
Total Project Costs                 369.26      99.6    150.00      100.0
Front-end fee                    1.50       0.4      0.00        0.0
Total Financing Required                  370.76      100.0    150.00     100.0
*These two components include the direct costs from fees charged by financial institutions in Colombia to
deliver cash subsidies to poor families.
*This component represents in-kind contributions from national and local governments.
Table does not include IDB financing.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Project seeks to develop the knowledge, experience and institutional capacity necessary to establish a
stronger and more responsive social safety net in Colombia -- one that would alleviate the worst effects of
current poverty and simultaneously promote the formation of human capital among poor children, even in
times of economic crisis. Toward this end, the Project would support the development of appropriate rules
and guidelines governing conditional health and education grants targeted to very poor families and their
highly vulnerable children. It would also establish a new methodology for geographic targeting that would
be used to rank localities by their socioeconomic indicators and as an input for a new system of choosing,
evaluating and monitoring social assistance projects for poor communities. The new methodology, the ICV
(Indice de Calidad de Vida), is based on census data, which permits its disaggregation to small
geographical units, including municipalities and neighborhoods within municipalities. According to the
calculations of DNP-Misi6n Social, the ICV is a very good predictor of household consumption, with a
correlation of 0.936. The lCV is the index used in the Bank's Empleo en Acci6n Community Works and
Employment project.
If the idea of conditional grants is proven to be feasible and cost-effective, the Project could lead towards
the replacement of redundant, less cost-effective poverty alleviation/social assistance programs as well as
to a better balance between supply and demand side interventions to promote human capital formation
among poor children.
- 12-



3. Benefits and target population:
Project Impact and benefits. Over a million children would be benefited (equivalent to roughly 13 percent
of the poor aged 0-17). The Project would generate several benefits. It would: (i) increase school
enrollment, reduce student absences from school and decrease primary and secondary school dropout rates;
(ii) raise the nutrition and health status of vulnerable children during life stages critical for their growth and
development; and (iii) improve child care practices among poor families in nutrition, health, early
stimulation, and avoidance of intrafamily violence. These improvements would be expected to have an
impact on poverty rates among the beneficiary population and eventually contribute to raising beneficiary
children's future earnings as a result of better health and education. It should be reiterated that, as
mentioned in Section A.2, these improvements and impact should be interpreted in relation to the
counterfactual (absence of the program); the severity of the crisis may be such that the anticipated program
benefits may not be sufficient to improve the outcome indicators in absolute terms.
Benefidarles and targeting mechanism. As mentioned, the Project will target the conditional grants to
vulnerable children belonging to families in the first quintile of the income distribution and living in eligible
municipalities. The Project follows a two stage targeting methodology. First, the Government selected those
municipalities in urban and rural areas that: (i) have a bank through which the grants could be delivered
directly to the beneficiaries; (ii) have the capacity to supply basic health services and primary/secondary
education that would enable families to comply with the stipulated conditions; and (iii) are not already
benefiting from another major national social safety net operation --FOREC and capital cities, metropolitan
areas and municipalities with over 100,000 urban population covered by Empleo en Acci6n. In total, there
would be an estimated 692 of Colombia's 1029 municipalities eligible for the Program.
Departments will be ordered by the total number of eligible persons (i.e. those in SISBEN 1), project
resources distributed across departments according to the total number of eligible persons, and departments
with higher absolute poverty as determined by the total population of eligible persons would be prioritized
for early incorporation into the program, even though all departments would be reached over time. The
Operations Manual will describe the final incorporation rules.Second, once a department is incorporated,
eligible municipalities (i.e. those not already receiving a major safety net operation, with banks, and
meeting the supply side provision requirements) within the selected department will be invited to participate
in the program. These municipalities will be ranked according to their relative poverty, allowing for the
prioritization of those with the highest percentage of poor. Because of operational considerations
mumicipalities wiU be ranked and incorporated as groups defined by the jurisdiction of the Project's zonal
offices. Third, having selected the departments and municipalities, families belonging to SISBEN 1 with
chiklren in the eligible age categories would be chosen. Since demand is likely to exceed supply in many
areas, the Government is exploring three options for rationing excess demand: (i) using a random selection
process to choose which SISBEN I families will be eligible to receive the transfer; (ii) selecting the poorer
families within SISBEN 1 taking advantage of the SISBEN point-based poverty ranking system; and (iii)
selecting the poorest municipalities within each department to receive the Program and giving grants to all
qualifying SISBEN 1 families within the selected municipalities. All three options are being explored and
evaluated in the pilot test.
The potential number of beneficiaries of the education grant component (including Bank and 1DB projects)
would be about 380,000 and 340,000 children in primary and secondary education levels respectively. The
nutrition grant component could benefit about 265,000 pre-school children. The total number of families
that would receive at least one of the grants could total to about 400,000. The actual number of
beneficiaries would depend on realized take up and leakage rates. These estimates will be updated during
the Pilot Phase of the Project using the actual number of potential beneficiaries registered in participating
- 13 -



municipalities' SISBEN system.
4. lItitutional and implementation arrangements:
The DAPR-FIP of the Office of the President, which is responsible for the implementation of the RAS,
would be in charge of Project execution, while DNP would be responsible for monitoring, evaluating and
reviewing the technical aspects of the Project's progress.
Within the DAPR-FIP, the National Coordinating Unit (NCU) would be in charge of the day-to-day
execution of the Familias en Acci6n and other RAS subprograms. This Project would be implemented by
the NCU in cooperation with other organizations. These include the network of ICBF offices, participating
municipal governments, the Committee for Social Policy based in each municipality, local schools and
health centers, elected leaders of the beneficiary mothers' groups, local citizen watchdog groups Veedurias
Ciudadanas) and a financial institution to deliver the grants to beneficiaries. The function and composition
of these organizations are described in detail in the Operations Manual. The Manual, which is in an
advanced state of preparation will govem Project implementation. It covers operational procedures and
guidelines regarding loan administration and staffing, beneficiary selection, grant amounts, verification of
compliance with grant conditions, procurement, flow of funds, financial management and control
(accounting, auditing, and reporting), coordination, supervision, monitoring and evaluation. Revision of the
Manual satisfactory to the Bank wilU be a condition of effectiveness.
The institutional arrangements appear appropriate, given the nature of the program and issues of possible
inappropriate use of public funds. The Project makes use of an existing network of central govemment,
local govenmment, private sector and civil society organizations to establish not only traditional financial
management accounting and control mechanisms, but also to promote social control and transparency. The
institutional and imnplementation arrangements appear complex, but their complexity is necessary to
minimize Project risks and ensure success.
The Project's institutional complexity arises for several reasons. First, Project's institutional environment is
quite complex. The program involves two highly decentralized sectors (education and health), which are
controlled by the departmental and municipal govemments. At the same time, the Ministries of Health and
Education, which have legitimate interests and concerns regarding the Project as weil as roles to play in
addressing supply-side issues, need to be taken into account. Furthermore, the situation calls for tight
coordination with ICBF not only because of ICBF's role as the principal Project administrator, but also
because of its national mandate to promote children's welfare, its available resources, and its desire to
reform its approach to social assistance. For those reasons, the Project has to take into account and involve
numerous central and local stakeholders in project design and implementation.
Second, although the main thrust of the Project is to motivate families to invest time and money on their
children's human capital even during these difficult times, the Project needs to ensure that the supply of
education and health services are available when needed by beneficiaries to comply with their obligations. ft
is for this reason that Project implementation design includes assessment of the readiness of municipalities
to provide aforementioned services prior to their acceptance into the program. Similarly, the Project has
decided to establish rules that encourage compliance with program participation conditions agreed to by the
municipalities. (GOC has already developed and in the process of including in the revised Operations
Manual the criteria and methods for assessing municipal readiness in providing needed education and
health services as weil as for identifying supply-side improvements that need to be made by the
municipality as a condition for program participation).
- 14 -



Third, given the above-mentioned thrust of the Project, it is necessary to establish a reliable system for
verifying families' and municipalities' compliance with the grant conditions.
Fourth, sending money to the beneficiary families, accounting for the income transfers, and controlling
them so that fraud and leakage are minimized is a huge challenge, particularly considering Colombia's
experience. Transparency and social control need to be well established as crucial complements to
traditional financial controls.
Finally, the complexity arising from these factors is further magnified by the size of the Project, which
would cover thousands of families and over a million children in both urban and rural areas throughout the
country.
a) Organizational structure
National management. As DAPR-FIP would be responsible for other programs (unrelated to the RAS), it
has been agreed that the RAS would be maintained operationally and financially separate from those
programs. To this end, the RAS would have its own bank accounts and accounting system. Moreover, a
Steering Committee comprised of high-level representatives from the Departments of Planning,
FINDETER, ICBF, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and SENA, would be established to
ensure that RAS operations are sound and well coordinated. The principal responsibilities of the Steering
Committee are to provide technical orientation, coordination of the various RAS projects, and supervision
of their performance. High level representatives of the Ministries of Education and Health would be
included to ensure cooperation on supply side issues. Business and civic organization will also be involved
in national management through their participation in the FIP directive council.
The National Coordinating Unit (NCU) is responsible for the technical, financial and administrative
coordination of the RAS. It will ensure implementation of project activities according to agreed criteria and
guidelines. It is also responsible for loan administration, supervision, and control. Some of NCU staff will
be shared between this Project, the Empleo en Accion Community Works and Employment Project, and the
Jovenes en Accion youth training program financed by IDB. They include staff for finance and
administration, legal affairs, communications, the management information system (MIS), and internal
control. Other staff involved in training, monitoring and operations will be dedicated exclusively to the
Project. Specific functions of the NCU include: (a) preparation of annual operational plan; (b) monitoring
and evaluation of the process of departmental and municipal operations; (c) approval of regional budgets
and payments of beneficiaries; (d) procurement, including contracting of firms and consultants needed for
operations; and (e) the liquidation and transmittal of grant funds to the financial institution serving as a
trust company.
Subnational management. Project administration at the regional and local level will rely on four
foundations: ICBFs national administrative infrastructure, municipal governments, community-based
networks, and schools and health centers. These arrangements are governed by a signed accord with ICBF
and with the decentralized collaboration established with local govemments and civic institutions.
* Project - *CBF national administrative infrastructure. Regional and local Project activities will be
carried out primarily through the use of ICBF staff and facilities. The ICBF network includes offices
and staff at three levels: (i) the central level in the capital of Bogota; (ii) the regional level with one
Regional Coordinating Unit per department (Colombian departments are equivalent to Mexican or U.S.
states); and (iii) the local level with a zonal office serving 5-10 municipalities. At full implementation,
the Project will rely on the ICBF network through the use of 28 regional offices and 144 zonal offices.
- 15 -



The Project's Regional Coordinating Units (UCR) based physically in ICBFs regional offices or
those of another supporting entity would be in charge of the implementation of Project activities at the
department level. These regional offices will be responsible for the incorporation of participating
municipalities, regional implementation of the management infomnation system, and management of the
network of zonal offices within the department. The UCRs report directly to the National Coordinating
Unit in DAPR-FIP.
The Project's zonal offices, again working primarily with the support of ICBF staff and facilities, will
be responsible for the project's local administration, including the incorporation of beneficiaries and the
delivery and collection of school health center and other project monitoring data. The zonal office will
also serve as the Project's liaison with the groups responsible for community-based monitoring (see
below).
*  Municipal governments. The mayor's office in participating municipalities would support Project
execution at the municipal level. Among the main functions of participating municipalities are to: (a)
ensure local availability of needed education and health services in accordance with the conditions
agreed between the municipality and the Project; and (b) charge the Municipal Liaison (Enlace
Municipal) office within the municipal government with the authority to carry out Project
implementation activities. These activities include: (a) dissemination, programming, and registration
activities needed for the incorporation of familes into the Project; (b) intermediation to facilitate
sending and collection of registration, compliance information, and other forms; (c) the coordination of
the training programs for project beneficiaries and local actors; (d) receipt of information regarding
relevant changes in the situation of beneficiary families; and (e) receipt and processing of complaints.
The Enlace Municipal, which is headed by a coordinator, is supported by each municipality's
administrative structure.
*   Community networks. The direct involvement of beneficiaries and local actors is critical to successful
project implementation. Three local networks will provide the foundation for community-based project
monitoring: (i) the mothers receiving the transfers and their elected representatives; (ii) the Municipal
Committee for Social Policy Comite Municipal de Politica Social) based in each municipality; and (iii)
the citizens' watchdog groups present in many municipalities Veeduria Ciudadana). Mothers receiving
transfers will be convened to elect one coordinator per neighborhood, with a coordinator representing
no more than 100 mothers. The coordinator will serve as the principal liaison between Project staff
and the beneficiaries and will be responsible for providing information on training and program benefits
and assisting mothers in resolving questions and problems. The elected coordinators will provide
regular community reports and also serve as a liaison with the local Municipal Committee for Social
Policy. The content and frequency of reports will be established in the Operations Manual.
The Municipal Committee for Social Policy based in each municipality is responsible for meetings and
coordination between the health, education, municipal government and national govemment
representatives. This group, already established through ICBF, is responsible for channeling demands
and recommendations to the Program's zonal and regional offices and for serving as a direct liaison
with the beneficiary mothers. It has been recommended that this group also include local civil society
representatives and an elected beneficiary mother.
Existing Veeduria Ciudadana citizen watchdog groups would be used to oversee Project
implementation and provide a vehicle by which citizens can register their complaints against the
Project, including issues pertaining to selection of beneficiaries, delivery of grants, and beneficiary
- 16 -



compliance with grant conditions. Where these Veedurias Cuidadanas are absent, other participatory
watchdog groups would be promoted by the Project. The relationship between the Project and the
Veedurias Ciudadanas or alternative watchdog groups will be established in the Operations Manual
and closely supervised during the pilot
*   Schools and health centers. These units are at the core of the Project. They provide not only the
services that would allow beneficiaries to comply with the grant conditions, but also certification of
their compliance. In the case of education, the school head would: (a) certify enrollment of beneficiary
children; and (b) record their absences from class and fill out relevant Project certification forms. With
respect to health center chosen by the beneficiary family, the staff assigned by the director would be
responsible for: (a) programming the health center visits of the beneficiary children; (b) providing
preventive check ups (through growth monitoring), immunizations and other basic health services to
participating children; and (c) recording their attendance at the health center according to agreed
schedule by filling out the standardized Project certification forms.
Financial management. The NCU will be responsible for maintaining project management arrangements
acceptable to the Bank. The Project will initially follow SOE procedures until it is ready to apply LACI
procedures. The Operations Manual will concretely specify internal controls over project transactions,
including control procedures for project flow of funds. In addition, the Manual will include specific
administrative and accounting procedures to assure sufficient control and accurate information. The
Government has also agreed to a time-bound action plan designed to prepare the NCU for full LACI
compliance. The first part of the action plan, which establishes the capacity to ensure that Project funds
can be accounted for in a timely manner and that they will be used in accordance with the purposes of the
loan, would be completed as a condition of effectiveness.
Key elements of the financial management system include:
3   Overallfinancial management. A financial institution serving as a cashier and trust company would
be contracted by DAPR-FIP following clear tertns of reference. The main function of the financial
institution is to make payments to Project beneficiaries and contractors approved by DAPR-FIP in
accordance to its instructions and procedures acceptable to the Bank (the cashier's function). The
second function is to provide financial oversight (the trust function). The payment of grants cycle is
described in detail in the Operations Manual.
* Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. DAPR-FIP will be responsible for the
management of project funds, including national counterpart funds, and for keeping track of local
counterpart resources. As mentioned, in order to ensure provision of accurate and timely information
about the use of project funds, the NCU would install an integrated financial system acceptable to the
Bank. This system would include planning, internal controls, accounting, and financial reporting. The
Project Chart of Accounts would be structured accordingly.
*   Financial monitoring and evaluation. During each year, the NCU shall prepare and submit to the
Bank quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) linking project expenditures to key monitoring
indicators of activities carried out during the quarter. The formats and basis to produce those reports
would be in accordance with the Bank's Financial Management Manual and LACI procedures. In
addition to PMRs, external audits of project financial statements will be required on an annual basis.
An independent private sector firm acceptable to the Bank will carry out the auditing of project
accounts. A specific short list of audit firms and Terms of Reference for audits (TOR) would be
prepared by the NCU and a no-objection letter would be issued by the Bank. The TOR will be included
- 17 -



in the final version of the Operations Manual.
* Flow offunds. Under the SOE arrangement, the Bank would deposit loan funds in the Special Account
(SA) in Banco de la Republica (BR). BR debits the SA for the amount of payment received using
current exchange rate and informs the National Treasury (DGTN) and DAPR-FIP of receipt of funds.
DGTN records SA transactions into the Integrated Financial Information (SIIF) system. This
information can be accessed immediately by Credito Ptublico which would authorize disbursement
DAPR-FIP upon review of beneficiaries' compliance provided by the monitoring system gives
instruction to DGTN to make payments to the financial institution contracted to deliver grants to the
beneficiaries, using the SIIF system. In turn, the contracted financial institution would make payments
to the Project's beneficiaries. DAPR-FIP through the SIIF system will have access to the following
data: (i) PAC (Plan Annual de Caja); (ii) balance of the SA; and (iii) Credito Publico approvals.
The development of financial management capacity and flow of funds arrangements are well advanced.
Nevertheless, further improvements need to be made. A plan of action has been developed with the Bani's
financial management specialist and is included in Annex 1 1. Annex 6 also lays out measures for ensuring
that the SA arrangements actually functions in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
b) Implementation process
The process and measures for initiating, expanding, verifying, documenting and monitoring the Project,
including the identification, registration, and selection of beneficiaries is well described in the Operations
Manual.
Project initiation. The Project will be initiated with an inter-institutional agreement between ICBF and
NCU. The agreement commits ICBF to provide the necessary logistical, financial and infrastructure
support for the regional and zonal offices to carry out their assigned Project functions. The agreement also
commits ICBF to provide to the Project: (a) information about children that attend its various nutrition and
preschool programs in communities participating in the Project; and (b) data about new entrants to and
withdrawals from said ICBF programs for the above informnation (a) to be updated regularly. This
information is important, because the Project would provide the health and nutrition grants only to families
that are not benefiting from the aforementioned ICBF programs.
Testing and expansion. The Project would be implemented in stages. lmplementation starts with a pilot
test and an expansion phase.
Pilot Stage. The first stage would pilot the operations of the Project in municipalities within the
departments of Boyaca Cundinamarca and Tolima estimated to last about six months. These areas were
selected for ease of access and security, the size of their potential beneficiary population, and their poverty
rate, which is close to the average. The pilot is intended to generate the experience, capacity, and
information necessary to make adjustments on the project design and expansion plan and will be
accompanied by an in-depth process evaluation. Since it is anticipated that there will be "excess demand"
by SISBEN I families for participating in the project, the pilot is being used to test transparent methods for
rationing the limited amount of grants the Project could finance. The pilot also is being used to test the
three methods for rationing the "excess demand" described in C.3: poverty ranling of municipalities,
poverty ranking of families and random selection among poor eligible families.
Project Expansion. The project would be expanded from the 3 departments and 18 municipalities in the
pilot test to 28 departments and the approximately 692 municipalities within these departments that meet
- 18 -



the eligibility criteria. Approximately 58 percent of these municipalities are located in rural areas.
Departments will be ranked according to the total number of SISBEN I families, and those with larger
SISBEN 1 populations will be incorporated earlier. Prioritization and incorporation will be by department
using the total number of poor.
Municipal capacity and willingness to participate in the Project will be confirmed prior to any
municipality's incorporation into the Project. Municipal eligibility will include an assurance of municipal
capacity to provide complementary supply-side investments in health and education, including the provision
of vaccines.
The DNP would establish a timeline for the incorporation of departments and municipalities into the
Project. While all departments would participate in the program, their inclusion would be prioritized on the
basis of their ranking according to the absolute number of SISBEN I population. The annual budget for the
program would be distributed in proportion to the department's share in the total number of SISBEN 1
population. This departmental allocation would determine the maximum number of progran beneficiaries.
In those cases where this is less than the number of eligible families who want to participate, beneficiaries
would be selected, as mentioned, on the basis of a lottery or other methods that are currently being tested in
the pilot phase.
The Project excludes municipalities that have no local banks or are benefiting from certain national
government programs. Those municipalities that pass the exclusion criteria are considered eligible to
participate. Inclusion of eligible municipalities would be prioritized in accordance with agreed criteria
based on their readiness to provide resources and services needed for successful execution of the Project.
Monitoring beneficiaries' compliance and municipalities' supply capacity. The Project will establish
various ways for monitoring and supervising the rate and quality of project implementation. Among the
issues that the monitoring system will address are beneficiary compliance and supply capacity, particularly
in relation to formal municipal government commitments.
Beneficiaries' compliance The monitoring of beneficiaries' compliance with program requirements and
their obligations in accepting the education and health grants will be based on the combined use of program
participation data, community-based monitoring and spot checks.
0  Program participation data on compliance with the education and health requirements will gathered
through the use of two forms, one filled out at the school and one at the health center. Mothers will be
responsible for working with teachers and health center workers to fill out the forms, a system that
places incentive for compliance with the stakeholder, but relies on verification from the providers. The
forms will be collected on a bimonthly basis through the Municipal Liaison (Enlace Municipal) and
processed by the UCRs. These forms and will serve as the primary inputs to the Program's
management information system.
*  Participatory, community-based monitoring will take place through communication with the network
of coordinators elected by participating mothers, regular town hall meetings organized by Project staff
in beneficiary communities, and the commuunity-based watchdog system.
* Spot checks reviewing Project operations will be conducted on a sample basis in participating
municipalities by external firm every three months. These will be used to validate the accuracy of the
data being collected for the Project, particularly regarding compliance with participation requirements,
and the efficiency of the Project's operational systems. These external spot checks will serve as a check
- 19 -



on the monitoring data collected through the Project's management information system.
School and health service capacity. Databases maintained by the Ministries of Health and Education in
collaboration with municipal governments on health insurance and vaccination coverage and supply
capacity in schools and health centers will be monitored to ensure that the system is able to supply needed
health and education services and that municipalities are complying with Project participation requirements.
Communications Strategy. A communications strategy aimed at providing information to the general
population, providers of health and education services, Project administrators, potential beneficiaries and
other stakeholders has been developed and is being tested in the pilot municipalities. The effectiveness of
this strategy will be reviewed as part of the process evaluation of the pilot prior to moving to full
implementation.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
In-kind versus cash assistance. There are three main arguments to favor the cash grants program over an
in-kind social assistance. First, cash transfers do not distort individual consumption or production choices
at the margin. Cash assistance allows families to deploy additional resources in accordance with their
varying needs and circumstances. Second, a relatively higher percentage of the benefits is likely to reach the
poor due to reduced wastage associated with the high cost of delivering and managing in-kind assistance.
Third, cash transfers do not entail large investment costs; hence, it keeps the program flexible and able to
adjust to changes in levels and coverage relatively easily. Finally, there is greater transparency.
School feeding. A specific example of an in-kind assistance that was considered but rejected for the above
reasons is the proposal to devote a substantial percentage of project loan towards financing of a school
feeding program. The justification for the rejection was particularly strong because a high percentage of the
benefits would have gone to non-poor children as targeting was not contemplated.
Conditional vs. unconditional assistance. There are various reasons for conditioning cash assistance to
families to desired improvements in the behavior of beneficiaries. The most important reason is that the
Project allows the poor to cope with adverse events more efficiently by simultaneously promoting
self-protection against future economic risks. With the education and health conditionalities, the Project is
expected to improve not only their current welfare but also their children's chances of breaking out of
poverty in the long run. This new type of social assistance addresses concems about asistencialismo and
the possibility of increasing long termn dependency on Government handouts. Another reasons is that
imposing those education and health conditions effectively counters the fear that cash assistance to
households will be wasted on things (e.g. alcohol and garnbling) that do not benefit children. The
conditionalities create strong incentives for parents to ensure that sufficient resources are allocated to the
health and education of children to continue receive Project benefits.
Community targeting vs. individual targeting using SISBEN. The use of community targeting only was
considered, but rejected given the existence of a widespread and respected proxy means testing system
(SISBEN) that provides information on the proposed eligibility criteria using individual and family
characteristics. The SISBEN system is considered one of the best in Latin America and is already being
widely applied to determine eligibility for the subsidized health insurance program. However, since the
application and maintenance of SISBEN is the responsibility of individual municipalities, some SISBEN
classifications are out of date and/or inadequate in terms of coverage. To address this problem,
- 20 -



municipalities electing to participate in the subsidy program would be required to show that their
application of the SISBEN is adequate.
Options for rationing excess demand: As mentioned. given the level of available financing, the Project
will most likely not be able to reach all eligible populations, introducing a need to develop a mechanism for
rationing excess demand. Three options were developed and are being explored and evaluated under the
pilot test for meeting this excess demand, with pros and cons to each options grounded in international
experience and relevant literature.
*   Municipal Selection. The first option is to select groups of municipalities with higher poverty rates
(% of poor) and incorporate all eligible families. Pros: easy to explain, avoids close juxtaposition of
those of similar welfare who do and don't benefit, helps set up control group for evaluation in such a
way as to be able to sort out the effect of different qualities of service (supply side factors), lowers
administrative costs because it reduces the coverage needed for the administrative apparatus. Cons:
program doesn't have as wide a scope and thus may have less political appeal at the regional/national
level.
*   Random Selection among Beneficiary Families. The second option is to hold a lottery among
SISBEN 1 families and incorporate all eligible municipalities. Pros: easy to explain, horizontal equity,
helps set up control group for evaluation under an experimental design in such as way as to sort out
family/individual selection issues. Cons: random assignment may not seem fair to those who don't get
benefits, particularly since by definition, they are as needy as those who receive the benefits.
*   Use point system within SISBEN 1 for Selection among Beneficiary Families. The third option is to
use the point system established by the SISBEN proxy means test to select the poorest families within
SISBEN 1. Pros: should result in finer targeting/vertical equity. Cons: differences in welfare may be
quite small so that households will not perceive the choices as fair; more difficult to administer; makes
it difficult to select control group for evaluation.
Selection of municipalities to participate in the program. In addition to the practical requirements of
having a banking system and the capacity to provide health and education services, eligibility to participate
in the conditional cash transfer program is limited to municipalities not benefiting from another major
national safety net operation (FOREC and capitals of departments and metropolitan areas, and
municipalities over 100,000 inhabitants in urban areas benefiting from Empleo en Acci6n). Although a
more widespread application of the program was considered (especially to large municipalities benefiting
from Empleo en Acci6n), this consideration was rejected because of the Government's desire to allocate
specific social safety net interventions to as broad a population as possible and to tailor the interventions to
specific needs in certain areas.
Institutional arrangements. The institutional arrangements developed to manage the project take
advantage of the existing institutional capacity and widespread presence of ICBF (Instituto Colombiano de
Bienestar Familiar) while maintaining the National Coordinating Unit (NC U) for the project under the
Investment for Peace Fund (Fondo de Inversi6n para la Paz (FIP), recently established under the
Administrative Department of the Office of the President (DAPR) to coordinate the new RAS programs.
The use of other organizations for project management was considered, but rejected because of concerns
that the Red de Solidaridad Social has shown inadequate strategic and programmatic focus, a lack of
capacity to guarantee subproject quality and retain qualified personnel, and a high vulnerability to political
pressure. The placement of all management responsibilities in ICBF was also rejected in favor of using
DAPR-FIP because of the interest in keeping the management of the three RAS subprograms under a single
unit to simplify monitoring and administration. This institutional structure allows the Government to
emphasize Plan Colombia's character as an integrated and balanced strategy aimed not only at suppressing
- 21 -



drug traffic and reducing related violence, but also at alleviating the negative impact of the economic crisis
on the poor and vulnerable population. Additionally, the Government hopes to attract financial and political
support for Plan Colombia from donor countries. The above proposal has several advantages. The most
important of these is that it would ensure strong support at the highest level of Govermnent. Locating
Project management responsibility under DAPR-FIP follows earlier decision to put Empleo en Acci6n
under said agency. That decision was taken after thorough discussion with the Government and Bank
management of the risks involved (see Section F, Sustainability and Risks).
Pilot project vs. Immediate full expansion. Piloting the Project and doing an accompanying in-depth
process evaluation was deemed a critical part of the project from its inception because of the program's
novelty and dependence on proper technical and administrative design. In particular, the pilot would focus
on design elements that are likely to need revisions. These would include: the effective use and updating of
SISBEN as a mechanism for selecting beneficiaries; the system and administrative arrangements for
monitoring eligibility and compliance with grant conditions; the process for the timely delivery of benefits
with minial leakage; and the effectiveness of the information and education campaign to ensure that
providers and recipients are well informned and involved in the project
-22 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planed).
1npem.ntao    Denlopnwnt
Bank-financed                                                 Prgras (IP)   Obl-Uv (DO)
- Integrated youth development (LIL)  Youth Development           U             U
(Ln.2920-CO)
- Poverty reduction and peace    Magdalena Medio                  S             S
(Ln.4371-CO)
- Development in areas of conflict,    Peasant Enterprises Zones  S             S
particularly in rural areas      Development (Ln.4363-CO)
- Decentralized education project  Antioquia Education            S             S
(Ln.4243-CO)
- Municipal managed education project Pasto Education (Ln. 4242-CO)  S          S
- Rural development              Rural Development Investment      S            S
Program (Ln.3250-CO)
- Reconstruction of social and   Earthquake Recovery              S             S
economic infrastructure in rural areas  (Ln.7009-CO)
- Rural development and education  Rural Education (Ln.7012-CO)
- Poverty reduction and social   Community Works and
protection                       Employment Project
(Ln.7017-CO, approved
05/11/2000); effective
01/16/01)
- Transfer of resources to decentralized Decentralized Human Capital
public entities for investment in human  Development (P068762, under
development                       preparation)
Other development agencies
Inter-American Development Bank
- Poverty                         Social Solidarity Network
(889/OC)                            .  . -
- Poverty                         Pacific Coast Sustainable
Development (926/SF)
- Violence                        Peaceful Coexistence and
Citizens' Security
(1085-1088/OC)
- Poverty and social protection   Social Protection Program    . - . . -
(CO-0247, under preparation,
partly co-financed by the Banik)
USAID                                                           -         ......
- Rul poverty/Drug interdiction   A project focused on "displaced -   -.i
persons" is being considered.
-23 -



- Child labor                      An intemational comparative
study on child labor is being
considered.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The choice of project design has benefited from a study of Mexico's conditional cash transfer project,
PROGRESA. In fact, GOC sent key staff to Mexico during the identification/preparation stage to learn
from the Mexican experience. Other similar experiences with conditional cash transfers to assist the poor in
Brazil (Bolsa Escola, PETI) and Bangladesh and Indonesia (scholarships) were also examined. Among the
lessons learned from these non-Bank experiences as well as Bank projects that are reflected in the design
and preparation of the Project are:
(i) Effectiveness and operational feasibility: Providing conditional cash transfers to poor families is a
feasible and politically acceptable approach to social assistance. Research has shown that much of the
opposition to cash subsidies due to concern of "asistencialismo 'or socially inappropriate use of the
subsidy (e.g. drinking and gambling) can be overcome by linking the assistance to desirable behavior such
as sending children in school and keeping them healthy and by giving the transfers to mothers whose
decisions regarding the intra-household allocation of resources often favor children's nutrition, health and
education. This research and the experience of PROGRESA, Bolsa Escola and similar programs
influenced the choice of conditional health education cash grant program as a cornerstone of the RAS
strategy.
(ii) Need to keep an eye on long reform and sustainabiity: The PROGRESA experience points to a
interesting approach to reform of the social assistance system. As in Mexico, the GOC through this Project
hopes to successfully establish a credible and more efficient alternative to certain existing programs that are
supply-driven, untargeted, expensive, and ineffective. For this purpose, the Project ensures that it has a
credible monitoring and evaluation component. Moreover, it has been agreed to complement this Project
and the Community Works and Employment Project with a Bank study of the social assistance system in
Colombia and a subsequent Social Sector Adjustment lending operation in FY02.
(iii) The importance of transparency and citizen oversight: Transparency in the rules of the game with
citizens acting as watchdogs is a key to minimizing corruption and ensuring that the money reaches the
intended beneficiaries with the least leakage. The Project is designed with this lesson in mind. To this
effect, the Project will be guided by the principle of keeping the rules simple, the manual of operations
clear, and communication with the target population and other stakeholders effective.
(iv) Participation of and commitment by all stakeholders: In addition to strong commitment by the
Government, the extent to which civil society and stakeholders, including the local schools and health
centers, participate and enforce good implementation is crucial for program success. Consultation with
beneficiaries also contribute greatly in this regard. The PROGRESA program in Mexico emphasizes active
participation and co-responsibility of parents. Local communities are also involved thorough regular
meetings to promote transparent project implementation and to monitor the adequate use of subsidies by the
beneficiary families. In Brazil, NGOs support the programs through working with families and educators,
and providing training for monitors.
(v) Effective targeting mechanism: Key to the success of conditional transfer programs has been good
targeting. Rates of undercoverage have been high while leakage rates are reported to have been low. In
- 24 -



decentralized programs, the issue of nationwide targeting is crucial. The central government needs to make
its own calculations to prioritize geographical areas where interventions are needed most, so as to remain
consistent with the objective of reaching the most needy in the country. The Project will be relying on the
well-regarded SISBEN proxy means testing system and will seek to ensure that it is properly applied within
participating municipalities.
(vi) Selection criteria for program beneficiaries: Excessively rigorous criteria for selection of
beneficiary families can lead to exclusion of the needy. Minimum residency requirement on beneficiaries
are introduced to discourage in-migration. This, however, can result in excluding needy groups, which
raises concems about equity. For this reason, it is recommended that residency requirement should be kept
to a minimum of approximately a year.
(vii) Effect on educational attainment: The programs have improved educational indicators and
outcomes. Mexico's PROGRESA program has had significant impacts in improving school enrollment,
especially at the secondary level where 8.4 percent increase in school attendance was observed from a base
of 65 percent. In the Bolsa Escola programs in Brazil, school attendance is higher and dropout rates lower
for the beneficiaries compared to non-beneficiaries. Furthermore, more beneficiary children enter school at
the right age and exhibit higher promotion rate (80 percent) compared to their non-beneficiary counterparts
(72 percent). However, no significant difference was observed in terms of leaming outcomes. The Project
will have to study the necessity of investment in school quality when the program is expanded to poorer
regions.
(viii) Effect on health and nutrition: Data on health indicators are not yet available. However, according
to prelimninary evaluation of the PROGRESA program, improvements in access and usage of facilities was
observed in areas where programs address health and nutrition. The number of health visits increased by 20
percent in PROGRESA -areas, while only 5 percent in non-PROGRESA areas. Looking at increase by types
of beneficiaries, there has been a 30 percent increase for families with children under age 5 and 16 percent
for those with pregnant women. On nutrition, it is reported that beneficiary families increased their
expenditure on some important food items by one-third more than non-beneficiary families. Furthermore,
participation in PROGRESA lowered the probability of illness by 22 percent among children aged 0-2.
These results influenced the decision to include nutrition grant in the Project and ensure the avaliability of
basic health care services.
(ix) Optimal level of cash transfer: First, the level of the subsidy needs to be carefully determined
through a clear and systematic method, keeping in mind the priorities of the program; that is, compensating
beneficiary families for lost wages, or bringing them up to the poverty line. Making use of a
program-by-program approach can perhaps result in the most appropriate subsidy level. Second, since
older children are likely to have a higher opportunity cost for their school time, subsidy increase with age
seems reasonable. This is the case with PROGRESA where secondary school children receive higher
subsidy. Third, some programs give flat rate subsidy per family rather than per child. This may
discourage families with many children to participate in the program, and therefore, subsidies determined
by number of children in the family is preferable. However, considering the need for institutional capacity
and the high administration cost that may incur, governments may decide to keep the scheme simple.
During Project preparation the team has assessed the value of the subsidy relative to the poverty line and
indigence line, the opportunity cost of school attendance relative to children's' earnings and the cost of the
transfers relative to other GOC programs.
(x) Combination of supply and demand: Without the availability of adequate and reasonable quality
services (schools, healdi clinics etc.), demand side interventions (i.e. conditional cash transfers to the poor)
- 25 -



are not likely to succeed. At the same time, however, good quality supply is not sufficient for attaining
positive human development outcomes. Thus the capacity to meet the increase in demand from these
demand side programs matters. Mexico's PROGRESA program provides additional funding for schools
and clinics while the PETI program in Brazil pays a transfer to local schools for every child in the program.
On the other hand, most of the Bolsa Escola programs in Brazil do not provide support to schools given
that the quality of local schools in urban areas (where these programs operate) is adequate enough to meet
the increased demand for schooling that results from the program. For these reasons the Project is (i)
providing demand-side subsidies in conjunction with an assessment of municipalities' health and education
supply capacity and (ii) coordinating support from other existing programs to support the improvement of
health and education services in poorer areas.
(xi) The need to establish a solid monitoring and evaluation system: Any new, large-scale social sector
projects needs to have a system to monitor project outcomes and evaluate project impact established from
the beginning of the project. The Project has established an integrated internal monitoring and evaluation
system and included financing for a comprehensive external impact evaluation in recognition of the
importance of these activities.
(xii) Implementation capacity: Programs of this nature require sophisticated administrative capacity.
Countries that consider introducing them should ensure that they build the implementation capacity first.
Political and technical support as well as consensus on the need for the program within the country would
certainly facilitate project implementation. One way to deal with this issue is to begin the Project, as is
contemplated here, with pilot communities and using the experience (through good process evaluation) to
make corrections and adjustments. The Project will also work through the national and regional offices of
ICBF, relying on their established administrative capacity and their national presence to facilitate project
implementation.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
GOC sent a team to study Mexico's experience with PROGRESA. After intensive discussions among top
level GOC officials and President Pastrana, GOC is now convinced that the concept of conditional subsidy
could work in Colombia. The President has made a personal commitment to ensure that the Project has the
support needed for implementation by placing the Project Coordinator under the Office of the President.
The diligence and care shown by GOC in preparing the Project reflects this commitment.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank support adds value in several areas. First, the GOC values the Bank's analytical capacity and broad
international experience with social protection. In this regard, the Bank has contributed significantly to the
discussion of the conditional cash grant idea, drawing from its familiarity and review of PROGRESA and
other similar programs. This discussion was helpful in the choice of the Project and alternative design
features. Second, Bank support for the project during implementation would assist GOC in ensuring that
the technical criteria are applied appropriately and that any adjustments made to project design take into
account best practices in social protection projects. Finally, in its effort to rationalize its social safety net,
GOC could benefit from ongoing and recently completed Bank studies. As mentioned, the Bank is current
undertaking various analyses of Colombia's social safety programs, unemployment and the labor market,
and poverty issues. Relevant recently published Bank studies include Social Protection Strategy: From
Safety Net to Spring Board (2000) and Securing Our Future in a Global Economy (2000)), which lay out
analytical frameworks for assessing and developing a coherent social protection reform strategy for
Colombia. Bank's expertise in this are is an important consideration for ensuring long lasting Project
impact
- 26-



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$ mnillion; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Although the Project does not need to do a cost-benefit calculation (being a poverty project), the mission
has nevertheless undertaken such an analysis. Preliminary results suggest that the benefits from providing
conditional cash transfers can be substantial. In terms of the education grant component, it is projected that
primary school enrollment rate could increase from 84.5 percent to 90 percent. For secondary education,
the rate could go up from 65 percent to 74 percent. The Project could increase the primary and secondary
education of children of beneficiary families by about a year. The NPV of this additional year of school
appears to be about US$2,360 and US$3,230 for primary and secondary education, respectively. The
effect of the health/nutrition subsidy is harder to measure. However, the loss alone in future productivity
because of stunting due to malnutrition appears to be roughly US$ 1,000. Summing up, the NPV for the
entire program (including both IDB Apoyo Familiar) is about US$390 million, excluding the economic
value of reduced mortality and morbidity due to immunization and improved health education of mothers.
The probability that the NPV will be negative is about one percent.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Financial Management. The NCU will be responsible for maintaining project management arrangements
acceptable to the Bank. The Project will initially follow SOE procedures until it is ready to apply LACI
procedures. The Operations Manual concretely specifies intemal controls over project transactions,
including control procedures for project flow of funds.
Annexes 4 and 5 detail the cost-benefit analysis conducted for the Project and the financial summary.
Fiscal Impact:
As explained in Section F, the GOC's exit strategy implies that the Project will not commit GOC to
additional recurrent expenditures in the future (except for the loan amortization), since the program will be
limited to three years only and GOC is strongly opposed to establish an entitlement program. And insofar
as the Familias en Acci6n subprogram will prove cost-effective, its financing would come from savings
generated by the social sector reform that GOC is interested in pursuing and that would allow it to
reallocate existing social sector budgets towards the provision of conditional education and health grants to
extremely poor families.
3. Technical:
The Project is technically well designed. Some improvements, however, in its implementation design are
needed. Consequently, the final version of the Operations Manual to be approved as a condition of
effectiveness will include: (i) clarification of the sanctions for failure by the participating municipality to
achieve agreed immunization targets; (ii) reference to the establishment of a credible system for measuring
compliance during the first year when the MOH's tracking system (RAIS) is not yet functional through the
use of a provisional monitoring system.
-27 -



4. Institutional:
The proposed institutional arrangements appear reasonable. They are complex. But the complexity is called
for by the nature of the institutional environment, the novelty of the program and the need to ensure
appropriate use of funds (see Section C.4). Although the arrangements appear adequate, there remain
significant areas of uncertainty and risks. The pilot test would provide information and experience on the
importance of these risks and how they might be minimized. Relevant issues are discussed in Section F. 1. A
critical aspect of the institutional arrangements is that they rely heavily on the support of regional and local
staff of ICBF, directors and teachers of schools and staff of health services. The issue that needs careful
attention during implementation is that the ICBF is undergoing a major restructuring. This could weaken its
ability to carry out the regional and local coordination required by the Project. Another issue relates to how
teachers and health center staff will respond to the additional work load imposed on them by the Project.
These civil servants may not be as motivated and willing to assume the additional work as expected, or they
may demand special incentives in exchange for their cooperation. The importance of this concern will be
gauged by the pilot experience.
4.1 Executing agencies:
DAPR-FIP of the Office of the President, ICBF and municipal governments
4.2 Project management:
National Coordinating Unit (NCU) in DAPR-FIP
4.3 Procurement issues:
Only a small percentage of the loan would be used for procurement of goods and services. No significant
procurement issues are expected.
4.4 Financial management issues:
An assessment of the financial management arrangements and flow of funds for the Project has been
conducted by Bank specialists, which found them to be well advanced. Agreement has been reached
regarding a plan of action for improving the financial management system and the conditions for
establishing a flow of funds system for the establishment of the Special Account acceptable to the Bank.
Loan conditions on these matters are laid out in Section G.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5. 1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Not applicable
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
- 28 -



Not applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The Government provided, prior to negotiations, evidence satisfactory to the Bank showing that benefits
similar to the cash transfers program are being provided to indigenous groups by other publicly financed
programs. This information can be found in the project files. Annex 12 provides a profile of the
indigenous groups affected by the project, as well as an Indigenous People's Development Strategy. The
strategy, as outlined in the Annex, basically provides that: (i) the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
system will provide evidence concerning the project's treatment of indigenous peoples. This evidence will be
reviewed at the mid-term review and at the conclusion of the Project; (ii) as part of the strategic review of
the Project at the end of the project, the evaluation will report on options for adapting the Project to reach
populations not covered by the cash transfers program, including indigenous groups; and (iii) DNP's
office responsible for indigenous affairs will monitor indigenous issues related to the cash transfers
program.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Key stakeholders at the national, regional, municipal, community and beneficiary levels will be
participating actively in project implementation, as explained in Section C.4 and provided for the
Operations Manual.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The Veedurias Ciudadanas, which are non-governmental community organizations, would act as
watchdogs of the Familias en Acci6n.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Given that the primordial aim of the Project is measured in terms of social development outcomes, the
institutional arrangements presented in Section C4 to accomplish its objective describes clearly how the
Project would ensure attainment of those outcomes.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
For similar reason as in 6.4 above, see Annex 1.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          O Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  O Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     O Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  O Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                            0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes * No
IProjects in International Waters OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)        0 Yes * No
-29-



7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The mission discussed the issue of participation of indigenous population groups in the Project. It has been
agreed earlier that the communications program will pay special attention to the needs and circumstances of
these groups. GOC also provided the mission with the list of various programs and laws protecting and
promoting the interest of indigenous people (see Annex 12). The general conclusion is that GOC has made
substantial and conscious efforts to deal with the issue.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Exit strategy. The mission discussed with GOC the question of exit strategy and sustainability. The GOC
clarified that the grants to be given to families would be at most for three years only and that this would be
made clear to the selected beneficiaries. GOC emphasized that the overriding purpose of the Project is
simply to provide immediate (albeit, temporary) assistance to poor families that would enable and motivate
them to protect the human capital formation of vulnerable children against the impact of the current
economic crisis. Given the difficult fiscal situation at present and the foreseeable future, it has no plan of
undertaking the program beyond 2004. GOC is strongly opposed to establishing an entitlement program,
which it cannot afford. What will happen to the Familias en Acci6n beyond that will depend on its results,
particularly its cost-effectiveness relative to that of other social assistance programs. It will also depend on
the funds available at that time.
Sustainability. The question of sustainability involves two issues. The first issue relates to the permanence
of the benefits that would be produced by the Project investment The mission's economic analysis indicates
that an extra year of schooling arising from the education grant, even though provided only for three years
or less, is expected to generate a significant long term increase in the future income of beneficiary children.
T'here are other long lasting positive social effects as well. For example, in the case of the grants to
secondary school children, one of the social effects could be the reduction in teenage marriage and
decreased risk of disorderly conduct. These results are indicated in a study rigorously evaluating
Colombia's secondary school voucher experience. This Bank-assisted program shows that provision of
secondary education vouchers has increased the number of years of schooling of the beneficiaries as well as
reduced the probability of teenage marriage and involvement in violent behavior. In the case of the
health/nutrition grant, there is also extensive international evidence that keeping very young children
healthy and well nourished could increase their long term productivity through improved cognitive ability
and other non-cognitive gains.
The second issue relates to the long term operation of the program. As mentioned, GOC has at present no
definitive plan about the program's future. It is open, however, to the idea that Familias en Accion could be
an altemative approach to existing programs. Whether in fact and to what extent this would happen will
depend on two broad factors. The first factor is a clear demonstration of its cost-effectiveness and success
in reaching the intended beneficiaries and improving their welfare. The second factor is GOCs ability to
reform Colombia's social sector and reallocate resources from cost-ineffective programs. The hope is that
by reducing the budget of inefficient social assistance programs, reform would generate enough savings to
finance Familias en Acci6n, at least in part. Preliminary findings from the ongoing social sector study
strongly suggest that the possibility for such welfare-enhancing reallocation can be substantial relative to
Project cost. (The mnission has calculated that the total cost of the Familias en Acci6n, including both Bank
and 1DB financing, is roughly 5 percent of non-pension national social spending.) The experience of
Mexico in this regard is instructive. Adoption of PROGRESA beyond its experimental period has been
- 30 -



accomplished by (i) showing that it is a highly effective social assistance program for the poor, and (ii)
reducing some untargeted subsidy (tortilla) to finance a more credible alterative.
To conclude, GOC opposes the establishment of an entitlement program and, hence, has no plan of
providing health and education grants beyond 2004. Nevertheless, it has unequivocably expressed its great
interest in social sector reform, first, to carry out welfare-enhancing budget reallocation towards more
effective social programs and, second, to counter the procyclical feature of the current system of social
assistance. In this regard, the experience of the Project (including the development of the rules of the game,
manual of operations, and trained staff) could be a strong basis for the establishment of a responsive,
efficient and countercyclical social assistance system. GOC conmnitment to the reform idea is evidenced by
its strong support for the Bank's ongoing Social Sector Study and its desire for a social sector adjustment
loan in FY02
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
(1) Minimal build up of human capital       M         (1) A study of the learning achievement of
because of the low quality of schools                 students of schools in poor communities would
beneficiary students go to.                           be undertaken. Corrective actions would be
taken on the basis of the results of the study.
(2) Low beneficiary compliance with         M         (2.1) To continue receiving the grant, the mother
grant conditions                                      would have to present a certification:
(i) from the school principal about the
beneficiary children's school attendance for
education grant; and
(ii) from designated health center authority
about children's immunization and mother's
attendance in accredited group discussion on
health and child care issues.
(2.2) The reliability of the certification system
would be assessed from time to time -- and
adjustments made accordingly.
(2.3) A strong and timely monitoring and
evaluation system would be established.
- 31 -



(3) insufficient supply of services         M         (3.1) To be selected into the program,
(education/health) to meet increase in                municipalities would have to show that adequate
demand in some participating rural                    supply of needed education and health services
communities.                                          are available to the beneficiary communities.
(3.2) A team (Enlace Municipal) in the Mayor's
office would be in charge of coordinating efforts
to ensure that needed support health and
education services are provided to beneficiary
communities.
(3.3) The Project will develop a strategy for
ensuring strong political and technical support
from local officials as well the Ministries of
Health and Education. The strategy includes
involvement of both Ministries from early stages
of Project preparation, inclusion of local
officials in its implementation design, and a
suitable communications program.
From Components to Outputs
(1) Low rate of participation by intended   M         (1.1) The Project would be piloted in a couple of
beneficiaries. Grant amount might be too              test areas. These issues will be analyzed and
low to be sufficiently attractive or it               adjustments wilU be made, if called for.
might be too high so that relatively fewer
people can be included due to Project
budget constraint. Moreover, many needy
families may be excluded due the
residency requirement.
- 32 -



(2) Diversion of grant money from         M         (2.1) Use of Operations Manual acceptable to
beneficiaries because of misuse of funds            the Bank that clearly sets forth clear
as well as leakage due to poor targeting            rules/mechanisms regarding eligibility as well as
system, inefficient management, weak                the flow of funds and financial management
delivery system, and political factors.             control. The Project benefits and rules of the
game would be transparent, made simple and
easily understandable. They would be
communicated widely to potential beneficiaries
and community stakeholders.
(2.2) Grants would be directly transferred to
selected families through their local Bank.
(2.3) Financial management of grant funds
would be contracted to a reputable financial
institution for the cashier and management/trust
functions; external audits would include a
sampling of supposed recipients; simplified
audit and performance reports would be made
public and available to participating
communities.
(2.4) An adequate MIS system would be
installed, including among others data from the
financial institution carrying out the cashier and
management/trust functions and the "public
complaint system" to be electronically
established. A regular analysis of the data would
be produced and made available to the public.
Establishment of a MIS satisfactory to the Bank
would be a condition of effectiveness.
(2.5) There would be an agreement on
independent audit and external performance
evaluation.
(2.6) The quality of the SISBEN system of
classification and its application would be
evaluated.
(2.7) The Project would be tested in pilot areas
initially to evaluate among others the adequacy
of the control mechanisms and the clarity and
implementability of Project rules and
procedures. Adjustments in procedures would be
made accordingly to ensure that the risk of
diversion of funds is minimized.
(2.8) The Project would establish a community-
based citizen watchdog through suitable
information campaigns, encourage people to
voice out complaints regarding project
implementation.
-33 -



(3) Implementation and supervision could    S         (3.1) Keeping the operations of the Red de
be impeded by violence.                               Apoyo Social separate financially and
administratively from the other programs
managed by the FIP, including the establishment
of a separate Steering Committee for the RAS.
As noted in the Community Works and                  (3.2) Governmnent assurance to maintain a
Employment Project, the decision to put               politically neutral public image for the Project,
RAS under DAPR-FIP could lead to a                    ensuring that the Project and RAS are not
mistaken perception that RAS is part of               associated with narco-guerrilla issues, focusing
the Government's strategy to reduce                   the project's communications strategy
narco-traffic and related guerrilla                   exclusively on its poverty alleviation objective,
activities. This perception could create              and maintaining a low profile for the Bank and
security risks for personnel implementing             Project staff.
the Project and Bank staff conducting
supervision visits.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Not applicable
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a) Adoption by DAPR-FIP of an Operations Manual for the Project satisfactory to the Bank, including: (i)
the operational procedures for NCU related to project management arrangements, (ii) the criteria and
procedures for the regional offices, local governments, zonal offices, community organizations supporting
Project implementation; (iii) the criteria for selection and financing of the financial institution contracted to
provide the cashier and management/trust functions; (iv) the procedures for the flow of funds and
information to and from the beneficiaries; (v) procedures for verification of compliance with Project
participation conditions by beneficiaries and municipalities; (vi) internal control over project staffing,
transactions, accounting, auditing, reporting, procurement and financial management; (vii) criteria for what
will be reviewed in the pilot phase to inform the irnplementation phase; (viii) description of the M&E
system; and (ix) description of the communications strategy.
(b) Terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, for the external Project impact evaluation
(c) Establishment and maintenance of a financial management system in the NCU, including records and
accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures of the Borrower related to the Project.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Financial Convenants
- 34 -



The Borrower, through DAPR-FIP, shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system in order to enable the Borrower, not later
than December 31, 2001, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project
management reports, acceptable to the Bank.
H. Readiness for Implementation
I 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Z 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
*    Revised Operations Manual satisfactory to the Bank
*    Financial management system in the NCU satisfactory to the Bank
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
3 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
A                                        ---- _   tA        ..
Vicente B. Paqueo                 Xavjkr E. Coll                    Olivier Lafqurcade
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                    Country Manager
- 35 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
COLOMBUA: Human Capital Protection
Sector-relabd CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Milssion)
In pursuit of poverty reduction Decrease in poverty  - Govermment economic    Development of a better social
and social developnent, the                         statistics and reports    safety net would allow GOC
CAS aims to strengthen                              (National Household Surveys to alleviate poverty in the
Colombia's social safety net to                     and SISBEN Database)      short run while promoting
cushion the poor and                                - Bank analytical work    poverty reduction in the long
vulnerable fiom the worst                                                     run. It is further assumed that:
effects of the crisis.
1. Household investment in
hunan capital significantly
reduces poverty in the long
run;
2. Improving the country's
safety net supports the
implementation of the
economic and institutional
reforms needed to improve
peace, economic growth and
income inequality in the long
run.
3. The provision of cash
grants do not create important
negative incentives for adults'
participation in the labor
market.
-36-



ProJect Development       Otoe/Impact                Project reports:(ro  ObJective to Goal)
Objective:Idctr
To conritbute to the protection                      For all components:        1.Colombia's socia safety net
and promotion of hurnan                              -Process Evaluation        would be more socially
capital of poor children                             - Impact evaluation (external efficient if poor farmilies were
through financing of subsidies                       evaluation based on baseline  enabled and given the
conditional upon: (a) parents                        and follow-up household    incentive to maintain
bringing their 0-6 year old                          surveys of beneficiaries and   investment in their children's
children to health clinics for                       comparison groups)         human capital during times of
scheduled growth monitoring,                         - Qualitative evaluation   economic crisis (instead of
where the clinic would                                                          reducing it to cope with short
additionally provide basic                                                      term shocks);
health services; (b) 7-17 year                                                  2. The conditional cash
old children's school                                                           transfer program is an
enrollment and perfornance                                                      effective and efficient
(primnary grades 2-5 and                                                        approach to providing such
secondary grades 6-1 1).                                                        incentive.
3. The beneficiaries selected
by the programn are the truly
poor and vulnerable
population.
The specific objectives are:   NET CHANGES as
1. Children age 0-6 with  determined in the impact
relatively better nutrition and evaluation (difference in
health status             differences between the
treatmnent and control groups
before and after the
intervention (tl - cl) - (tO -
cO):
- Net change in the % of
children brought to health
centers for preventive care
(target: >or= 0)
- Net change in children age
0-6 with complete
imnmunization scheme (target
>= 0)
- Net change in children age
0-6 complying with regular
growth and health monitoring
(target > 0)
-Net change in nutritional
status (as measured through
anthropometric indicators) of
children age 0-3 (target: > or
=0)
- 37 -



2. Children and youth agc    - Net change in school
7-17 with relatively beter    attendance (target > 0)
schling outcomes         - Net change in school
dropout (target <= 0)
- Net change in school
enrollment (target > = 0)
- Net change in tmnsition
rate, especially grades 1-2,
5-6 and 9-10 (target >= 0)
-38 -



Output from each          Output Indicator:         Project report.:          (from Outputs to Objoctve)
Componentk
1. Eligible families with  1. Project Implementation:  -Community monitoring/MIS  1. Improving the health and
children aged 0-6 receiving   actua compared to estimated  - Education and health sector nutrition of poor children
nutrition grant           numbers for all three     mnagement infonmation     creates additional human
components (ntrition grants, system data and reports  capital.
2. Beneficiary families   education grants, and     - Extrnal audit           2. Discussions with
participating in         training):                 - Prqect supervision reports  beneficiary mothers on bealth
healdth/nutrition/child care    -Number of beneficiaries  - Inpact evaluation  and child care issues improves
educational activities    (fanilies and children)                             their knowledge and change
-Percerae of poor                                   their pratices.
3. Children and youth aged   beneficiaries                                    3. The schools that
7-17 from eligible families   -Amount disbursed by project                    beneficiary children go to
receiving education grant    and received by beneficiaries                    provide an effective learning
cnvironment that raises
student achievement and
human capital.
Project Efficiency:                                 4. Compliance rate with grant
-Percentage of loan going to                        conditions is high.
education and nutrition gants                       Compliance with
-Percentage of grant                                conditionalities is stridctly
recipients in lowest income                         enforced and monitored in a
quintile                                            timely manner.
-Rate of growth of                                  5. Supply of needed
participating municipalities                        education and health services
are sufficient to meet
increased demand in each
participating municipality.
- 39 -



ProJect C'omponents /     Inputs: (budget for each    Poetrp                  (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
- MaaBeentinformation   (I)The subsidies are set at
(1) Education Grants      US$48.86                  sytmappropriate levels to baance
-Project supervision reports   program coverage and
-External audit          compliance. (If too low, few
(2) Health/Nutrition Grants   US$74.10                                        would be motivated to
participate in the program and
comply with requirements. If
too high, compliance would
be higher but coverage would
be reduced.)
(2) The grants would actually
reach eligible beneficiaries
with little leakage, delay, and
corruption.
(3) SISBEN provides an
adequate targeting system.
(4) A well functioning grant
distribution/payment
mechanism would be
established.
(5) Adequate outreach
campaigns would be
undertaken.
(3)Project Management     US$26.79 million                                    (6) There is capacity to
establish an adequate
management information
system
(7) ICBF and municipalities
have adequate management
capacity.
(4) Monitoring and        US$1.63 million
Evaluation
(5) Promotion and         US$3.32 million
Dissemination
(8) Project implementation
and supervision is not
seriously hampered by the
political instability and
violence in the country.
(9) There is strong political
and technical support by local
officials, the communities,
and the Ministries of Health
and Education
(6) Health, education, and    US$206.25 million
nutrition services delivery
The above budgets include
counterpart financing
-40 -



Monitoring and Evaluation System
A Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system will be implemented to assess the Project's success in
achieving the desired outcomes and impacts. The M&E system will produce the indicators specified in
logical framework through the implementation of five principal components: (i) a process evaluation of the
conditional cash transfers pilot; (ii) a management information system; (iii) a community monitoring and
social control system; (iv) spot checks; and (v) an external impact evaluation. In addition to these, there
will be a random sample-based external audits.
Process Evaluation of Pilot. The pilot being carried out in the Departments of Cundinamarca, Boyaca
and Tolima will be evaluated through a process evaluation in order to make recommendations conceming
needed adjustments to the project design. The process evaluation will include a consideration of each of the
Project's main components, including: subsidy levels and target populations; the poverty targeting
mechanisms (especially SISBEN for the selection of households); arrangements with central and local
government agencies and civil society for project implementation and options for addressing excess
demand.
Management Information System. A management information system (MlS) will be developed to track
the Project's physical and financial progress during implementation. The MIS will collect data on
compliance and delivery of the nutrition and education grants directly from schools and health centers
which will be used to track the targets set for the estimated number of beneficiaries established in Section
A.2, overall and by type of grant. These targets will be updated during the Pilot phase based on the actual
number of eligible beneficiaries, as registered in participating municipalities' SISBEN systems. Financial
data will be provided by the financial institution. These data will be consolidated in the MIS and reviewed
on a bimonthly basis by the NCU.
Community Monitoring and Social Control System. Participatory monitoring by beneficiary
communities will form an integral part of the M&E system. This system will allow for complaints,
suggestions, and assessments to be received from beneficiary communities and addressed in a timely
manner. The M&E system will collect infonnation by (i) working through the municipal representative
(Enlace Municipal) responsible for liaising with the group of citizens elected in each beneficiary
community (veeduria ciudadana or equivalent) and the beneficiary mothers; and (ii) holding periodic town
halt meetings with beneficiaries. These data will be consolidated and reviewed on a regular basis by the
NCU.
Spot Checks. Reviews of Project operations will be conducted on a sample basis in participating
municipalities by an external firm every three months. These will be used to validate the accuracy of data
being collected for the Project, regarding compliance with participation requirements and the efficiency of
the Project's operational systems. These external spot checks will serve as a check on the monitoring data
collected through the Project's management information system.
External Impact Evaluation. An external impact evaluation will be conducted to assess the effect of the
program on household welfare, particularly children's health and education. The impact evaluation will be
based primarily on the use of household surveys of treatment and comparison groups to collect baseline and
follow-up data on the Project's targeting and impact, using as a reference the outcome measures listed in the
Log*fame. The evaluation will harmonize its data collection efforts with the existing system of household
surveys and the established poverty measures in Colombia in order to evaluate the Project's success in
poverty targeting, provide comparability with the impact evaluation of the other two RAS projects, and to
support and improve upon the existing system of household surveys. The evaluation witl also include a
- 41 -



qualitative assessment of Project impact in a sample of communities to complement the findings produced
by the household survey data.
Two committees will be established to support the quality of the M&E system, ensure its relevance in
providing inputs for policy decisions in Colombia, and build M&E capacity. First, a Technical Committee
will be established in the DNP to work directly with the staff contracted for the various components of the
M&E system and with the NCU to ensure the relevant and timely production of needed information and its
relevance to overall policy decisions. In addition, a Steering Committee consisting of evaluation
specialists, academics and policymakers will be convened to liaise with the Technical Committee to guide
the design, analysis and use of the M&E system, particularly the external impact evaluation.
-42-



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
COLOMBIA: Human Capital Protection
The dollar amount after each component refers to Bank financing.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$48.86 million
Educational Grants (EG). This component would finance scholarships for children aged 7-17 years old
belonging to families with SISBEN I classification. Beneficiary families would receive the education grant
during the duration of the project for as long as they are enrolled in primary (grades 2-5) or secondary
schools, maintain a class attendance rate of not less than 80 percent, and do not repeat grades more than
once. Each education beneficiary would receive a monthly stipend per eligible child amount to US$6 per
month and US$12 for primary and secondary school students, respectively. These amounts are about equal
on average to the direct expenditures of households on education. This component also includes the direct
costs charged by financial institutions in Colombia to deliver the education grants to poor families,
amounting to approximately US$1.6 million (3% percent of the total amount allocated for the education
grants). These direct costs will be financed by the Bank.
Project Component 2 - US$74.10 million
Health/nutrition grant (HN). This second component would finance direct cash grants to eligible
(SISBEN 1) families with 0-6 year old children. Selected families would receive the grant for as long as
they comply with agreed health/nutrition requirements. The HN grants would be given to families with 0-6
year old children who are not in the community nutrition and pre-school program (Hogares Comunitarios
de Bienestar) of the ICBF. The family would receive the grant in cash for as long as it complies with
agreed HN requirement. Parents are required to bring their children aged 0-6 to health clinics for scheduled
monitoring of weight gain against agreed standards. At the clinics children will receive basic services such
as immunization that municipalities would be pledged to provide as a condition for participation in the
Project. The basic services to which children are entitled are governed by norms established by the Ministry
of Health. This grant would enable and motivate beneficiary mothers of 0-6 year old children to give them
the nutrition and health care they need during this critical period of growth and development. The HN grant
is set at US$20 per month per eligible family with a 0-6 year old child regardless of the number of children.
On average this amount represents about $13 per child aged 0-6 years old per month. The grant of US$20
is more or less equal to the gap between the cost of a basic food basket for determining the poverty line and
the average income of indigent families. The amount indicates a conservative estimate of the additional
direct food and health expenditures needed by an average indigent family to keep their preschool children
well nourished and healthy -- and avoid human capital development failures. This component also includes
the direct costs charged by financial institutions in Colombia to deliver the health and nutrition grants to
poor families, amounting to approximately US$2.5 million (3% percent of the total amount allocated for
the health and nutrition grants). These direct costs will be financed by the Bank.
Project Component 3 - US$ 13.78 million
Project Management. The program would be administered by the NCU, the RCU, and the Municipal
Networks (Enlace Municipal or EM) at the national, regional and municipal levels respectively. The NCU
personnel dedicated to this program consists of 25 staff, including a director and four chiefs of planning
and evaluation, information systems, operations, and training. Each chief would have four technical and
-43 -



administrative staff. Each of the 28 RCU would be staffed by approximately 12 professionals, depending
on the department characteristics (number of beneficiaries, number of municipalities, within others).
Approximately one third of them would be technical and administrative staff (including one coordinator) to
be financed by the World Bank and IDB, while the rest would come from existing ICBF personnel (5
technical staff). At the local level, there would be one EM for each municipality participating in the
program (operating in municipal offices). Each EM is staffed by two professionals (1 technical, 1
administrative).
The above budget of $13.78 million for this component consists of: staff salries, office materials,
training/guidelines, and equipment and transportation. The last category includes expenditures for
computers, printers, copiers, faxes, telephones, office furniture, rent, paper, utilities, and transportation.
Project Component 4 - US$1.63 million
Monitoring and evaluation. In addition to the monitoring and evaluation activities described in detail in
Annex 1, this component includes monthly supervision by the above mentioned entities responsible for
project implementation. Supervision includes a review of the process of registration and selection of
beneficiaries, payments of grants, and training activities. A firm will be hired to supervise, analyze and
produce monthly reports. The budget for this component would also be used to finance extemal evaluation
and audit.
Project Component 5 - US$3.32 million
Promotion and Dissemination. This component would finance public relation and information campaign
activities, which would be carried out through television, radio, and print media (newspapers as well as
posters, brochures, billboards, etc. Consultants would be hired for six months to design and carry out these
activities. They would also develop and organize national and local workshops for technical and
administrative staff and other program stakeholders (e.g. mayors).
Project Component 6 - US$0.00 million
Health, education, and nutrition services delivery. This component consists of education, health and
nutrition services provided by involved public institutions to eligible Project beneficiaries in the
participating municipalities receiving Bank-financed grants. The amount of US$206.25 million for this
component is recognized by the Bank as an in-kind contribution from the national and local governments in
Colombia. The in-kind contribution includes vaccinations, teacher salaries, and public education
campaigns, among other items. A list of the government programs included in this estimate can be found in
the project files.
Project Component 7 - US$8.31 million
In addition, there will be an unallocated amount of US$8.31 million; this unallocated portion of the loan is
principally intended to meet the need for flexibility due to the uncertainty regarding take-up rates for
education versus health, although it could also be used to a limited extent for meeting unexpected needs of
the other components.
The front-end fee of US$1.5 million will be financed separately by the Government of Colombia.
-44 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
COLOMBIA: Human Capital Protection
Education Grants                                               48.86          0.00          48.86
Health/Nutrition Grants                                        74.10          0.00          74.10
Project Management                                             15.54         11.25          26.79
Monitoring and Evaluation                                       0.46           1.17          1.63
Promotion and Dissemination                                     1.99           1.33          3.32
Unallocated                                                     8.31           0.00          8.31
Health, education and nutrition services delivery*           206.25           0.00         206.25
Total Baseline Cost                                           355.51          13.75        369.26
Physical Contingencies                                         0.00          0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies                                            0.00          0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs               355.51          13.75        369.26
Front-end fee    _                  1.50           1.50
Total Financing Required                355.51          15.25        370.76
*This component represents in-kind contributions from the national and local govemments.
(Given the nature of the project (the bulk of which is cash transfers), there are no contingencies.
Numbers may not add exactly due to rounding. Table does not include IDB financing.
Identifiable taxes and duties are O (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 455 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 32.97% of
total project cost net of taxes.
-45-



Annex 4: Cost Beneflit Analysis Summary
COLOMBIA: Human Capital Protection
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
As an investment, the Project is expected to raise the future productivity and, hence, earnings of
beneficiary children due to increased years of education and improved health and nutrition status at a
critical stage of their development Two behavioral mechanisms are assumed to generate the positive
impact of the grants on the children's education and health/nutrition status. The first relate to the income
effect of the cash grant. This is expected to be positive. Available evidence from a recent study in
Colombia, for examnple, reveals that families experiencing a fall in family income holding other things
constant had a higher probability of children dropping out of school. The second mechanism relates to the
expected "price or incentive effect" that would be generated by conditioning continued receipt of the grants
on school attendance, health center visit and other requirements.
The education grant is expected to affect the following intermediate variables: school enrollment and
class attendance as well as reduced dropout and repetition rates. Estimates of project impact on these
variables are presented in Table A4. 1 below. The improvements in these variables shown in this table
would likely lead to about 0.3 and .35 additional years of educational attainment for primary and secondary
school beneficiary children, respectively. It is further estimated that a year of completed schooling would
have a net present value of $2,360 and $3,230 for primary and secondary education levels. These benefit
estimates do not include external benefits that would accrue to society from improved citizenship,
enrichment of national culture, lower govemance costs, better control of public health problems, and more
efficient diffusion of knowledge and technology.
The effect of the health/nutrition grant is hard to measure, as many of the spillovers of better nutrition
are difficult to capture. Moreover, due to lack of relevant information, it is difficult to estimate and value
the expected effect of the grant on child mortality, morbidity and cognitive ability. For these reasons, the
economic analysis concentrates on the benefits of decreasing the rate of malnutrition on stunting,
recognizing that as in education this will only provide at lower bound of the benefits of the program and that
the other aforementioned beneficial effects are not being captured. The net present value of reducing
stunting for an child that would have suffered this problem is about $1,187.
Using the total number of Program beneficiaries (including both the Bank and 1DB components)
presented in Table A4.3, the expected aggregate net present value of the benefits would then amount to
about $390 million (Table A4.2). This calculation assumes a total program cost of about $325 million,
including the cost of managing and transferring the grants to beneficiaries as well as the additional costs of
materials and staff time dedicated to meet expected additional demands for health and education services.
As mentioned, these figures are conservative estimates. They do not include certain productivity effects
(private and external). They also exclude the direct consumption benefits that would be derived by poor
families from the grants.
-46-



Table A4.1: Target Values and Assumptions Regarding the Effect
of the Program on Education for the target population
Old       New        Old                 New
Enrollment rate                84_5       90         65                   74
Dropout rate               9_ 6          8_72        8                    72 
Avg. increase in attendance            10 percent                      10 perent
rate
Avg. decrease in repetition rate       5 percent                       5 percent
_  Response of grade attainment to
Enrollment                                0 1                             0 1
Dropouts                                  0 5                             0_5
Attendance                                0_1 0_1
Repetition                                0 5                             0_5
Table A4.2: Cost-Benefit Analysis, Assumptions and Results
Number beneficiaries p_imary school (j~er year)            126,000
Number beneficiaries primary school (per year)             126,000
Nwnber beneficiaries secondary school (per year)           113,000
Number beneficiaries from reduced stunting (per year)       14,575
Number of periods program in operation                        3
Total cost of program ($ million)                           325.36
Pre-project average primary school grade attainment (grades)  4.17
Pre-project average secondary school grade attainment        3.48
Work lifespan (in years)                                     40
Discount rate                                                0.07
Private NPV additional year primary $                       2,360
Private NPV additional year secondary ($)                   3,230
Private NPV reduced stunting                                1,187
Post-program average primary school grade attainment         4.53
Post-progratn secondary school grade attainment              3.79
Mean NPV of project ($ million)                              390
Probability of negative NPV                                 0.011
N.B.: Infonnation on beneficiaries, grade attainment and incidence of shmting, fomn DNP (2000)
-47 -



Table A4.3: Number of Beneficiaries and Average Benefit by type of beneficiary
Nutrition grant only                     67,471                      1.84
Primary education grant only             30,709                      1.43
Secondary education grant only           42,387                      1.47
Nutrition and primary education grants   76,078        1.82 (0-6 yrs. old) and 1.60 (7-11 yrs.
old)
Nutrition and secondary education        38,239            1.68 (0-6) and 1.52 (12-17)
grants                            l_                               _      _l
Primary and secondary education grants   57,697            1.38 (7-11) and 1.46 (12-17)
All three grants                         83,685          1.74 (0-6), 1.59 (7-11) and 1.61
l _______________ _  |(12-17)
Total number of nutritional grants      265,473                      N.A
Children reached by nutritional grants  472,462
Total number of primary educ. grants    378,935                      NA.
(number of children)
Total number of secondary educ. grants  339,281                      N.A.
(number of chOdren)               lIl_I
Table A4.4: Project Costs, by Category
| Eduatio grats                                           r88.11l
| llalt/Nuttiogrants                 |82.59l
Project management and operations                        114.26
Marginal cost of education, health and                     40
nutrition service delivery
Total                                                    325.36
Main Assumptions:
The assumptions used for the economic analysis are shown in the above tables. The estimation of the
present value of the additional earnings from a year of education gained uses standard methodology. In
regard to the estimation of the benefits from preventing stunting due to improved nutrition of preschool
children, the following assumptions were made.
(i) Use a standardized measure of the effect of stunting (chronic malnutrition) on productivity in
manual/agricultural jobs and the average wage of rural workers in Colombia (about $600 per year).
-48 -



(ii) Predict the wage profile of stunted individuals, using the following standard measures: the elasticity of
productivity in rural jobs w.r.t. height is approximately 1.38; the adult height deficit from child stunting is
3.125, 4.375, and 6.25 percent for mild to severe cases respectively. The analysis chose to use 5 percent as
an average, implying a 6.9 percent decrease in productivity due to stunting. The NPV of lost wages due to
stunting over working life is approximately equal to $41 per year per person.
(iii) Multiply $41 by the number of beneficiaries. There are about 265,000 expected beneficiary families
with children between 0 and 6 years of age. On average there are 1.1 children per family, i.e. 291,500
children. As a result of Familias en Acci6n, the rate of malnutrition is expected to be 5 percent below that
of the control group (children in the Hogares Comunitarios program, as suggested by knowledgeable
Colombia authorities). The rate of malnutrition for this group is about 20 percent Using this figure and the
expected beneficiaries, the total number of stunting prevented would be about 15,000 children.
Additionally it was assumed that the government will have to incur some additional cost in order to meet
the increase in demand for education and health. The amount of $40) million was used in the base
simulation. This constitutes about a fifth of the education, health and nutrition services GOC would provide
eligible grant beneficiaries and that the Bank recognizes as GOC's counterpart contribution. In general, the
analysis assumed that GOC would largely finance those supply-side services anyway even without the
Project and that the opportunity cost of using them to support the Project would be minimal.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Sensitivity analysis was undertaken to examine the effects of random variations in a number of variables.
The results are presented in the charts below. The main finding is that there is a negligible probability (less
than 2 percent) that the NPV would be negative. Similar analysis further indicates that this probability is
not very sensitive to the cost of program management, transfer of grants, and other expenditures for
ensuring compliance with grant conditions and availability of needed additional health and education
services. Details of the economic analysis are on file.
-49-



-~~      ~                                                                  - =lurn_t 
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
in ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
EU                                0
~~~~~~~ 530 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..............    ............................   .............    ......................;o
L(                      L(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
Aoueno e                                                                                                          0XX
0)                  0                                       0                       O    O    O       O     On    O    O           -     0
Abuenb.i



Annex 5: Financial Summary
COLOMBIA: Human Capital Protection
Years Ending
I Year1  I Year 2  I Year 3  I Year 4  | Year5     Year6 5       Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          17.9       75.6      105.6       23.9       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            17.3      42.5       57.5       28.9        0.0        0.0      0.0
Total ProjectCosts          35.2      118.1      163.1       52.8       0.0        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee     1.5                                       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing             36.7      118.1      163.1       52.8       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDfiDA                  16.8       52.8      54.4       26.0                  0.0        0.0
Govemment                 37.6       59.2      70.6       53.4        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central               33.6       50.0       60.6       45.5       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             4.0        9.2       10.0        7.9       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             12.7       28.3      27.8       15.4        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     67.1     140.3      152.8       94.8       0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Time period spans July 2001 - July 2004. Numbers may not add exactly due to rounding.
- 51 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
COLOMBIA: Human Capital Protection
Procurement
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank "Guidelines:
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised January/August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in September 1999 and January 1999), and
the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
Procurement methods: The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the estimated
amnounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each
method are fixed in Table B.
Procurement of Works. This project will not finance any civil works.
Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under this project would include office equipment and supplies
for the national and regional coordinating units and the municipal liaise offices totaling US$9.77 million
equivalent To the extent possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped into bidding packages of more
than $250,000 equivalent and procured following lnternational Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures,
using Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). Contracts with estimated values below this
threshold per contract and up to an aggregate amount of US$4.8 million may be procured using National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures and standard bidding documents agreed with the Bank. Contracts
for goods which cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less than US$50,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$2.0 million, may be procured using shopping (National
/lnternational) procedures based on a model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank.
Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement
The DAPR-FIP is responsible for all procurement processes with the support of an
Administrative/Financial Office, a Communications Offtce, a Legal Office through a Technical Committee.
Even though RAS will be the National Coordinating Unit for the three social subprograms under
FIP--Youth Training, Human Capital Protection, and Labor Generation--each subprogram will have a
Subcoordinator (Jefe) and their activities, accounts and reporting will be independent from each other. The
Operations Manual already include, in addition to the procurement procedures, the Standard Bidding
Documents to be used for each procurement method, as weli as model contracts for works and goods
procured on the basis of three quotations or shopping..
An assessment of the capacity of the NCU to implement procurement actions for the project has been
carried out and was approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor on February 12, 2001. The assessment
reviewed the organizational structure of the proposed NCU and the interaction between the project's
Procurement Officer and the DAPR-FIP Central Unit for Administration and Finance.
Most of the issues concerning the NCU have been or are being addressed, and corrective measures are
being implemented under another Bank-supported project that is also managed by this Unit. The risks
identified in the assessment include: (i) lack of procurement manuals; and (ii) lack of a monitoring system
- 52 -



to control procurement actions. The NCU has already presented a detailed plan to address these risks. It
involves: (i) preparation of a Procurement Manual; (ii) promoting a training program for the less
experienced staff; (iii) creating a monitoring system and maintaining control of the procurement actions by
using such monitoring system; and (iv) hiring one consultant to design and help implement the new filing
system.
Monitoring of procurement actions and evaluation of contracts awarded under this project are key activities
envisaged in the action plan, with a specific allocation of human and financial resources. Document filing
is to improve after the new system is implemented and is expected to comply with the Bank's requirements.
The new system will specify the procurement documents to be filed, the NCU staff who would have access
to the files, and the internal security measures for record-keeping.
The overall project risk for procurement is AVERAGE
Although the overall risk assessment resulting from the NCU's capacity assessment is AVERAGE, the unit
has not yet in place a satisfactory system for filing, monitoring, and reporting procurement actions.
Consequently the NCU is INELIGIBLE for PMR-based disbursements on procurement reporting grounds.
Procurement Plan
The Borrower submitted a procurement plan for project implementation which provided the basis for the
aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table A). This plan has been approved by the RPA
and will be filed in the project files. At the beginning of each calendar year, the Borrower will update the
Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming year.
-53-



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurenent Arrangernents
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works        0.00           0.00          0.00           ~~~~     ~    ~~~~~~~~0.00  0.00
(0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)        ~~~(0.00)      (0.00)1
2. Goods                            2.96           4.81           2.00           0.00          9.77
(2.25)         (3.66)        (1.52)         (0.00)         (7.43)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00          12.40          10.68         23.08
(0.00)         (0.00         (12.40)        (0.00)        (12.40)
4. Operational Costs                0.00           0.00           0.00         206.25         206.25
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                    0.00           0.00           0.00           1.50          1.50
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (.)
6. Grants 31                        0.00           0.00          51.65           0.00         51.65
a. Education Grants            (0.00)         (0.00)        (51.65)         (0.00)        (51.65)
b. Health/Nutrition Grants       0.00           0.00          78.52           0.00          78.52
(0.00)         (0.00)        (78.52)        (0.00)        (78.52)
Total                            2.96           4.81          144.57         218.43        370.77
(2.25)         (3.66)       (144.09)        (0.00)       (150.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
' a/ Goods: Includes equipment and supplies for the NCU and RCUs. Figures for goods include taxes.
b/ Shopping (National and International)
c/ Consultants Services. Details provided in Table A-1
d/ Operational costs financed by in-kind contributions. No procurement is required for this category
e/ Grants. No procurement is required for this category
3/ Amounts for grants include US$4.36 total for transaction services
- 54 -



Selection of Consultants Consulting services will be contracted under this project for the evaluation and
monitoring of the project, promotion campaign, expansion and maintenance of information monitoring and
systems external financial audit, managerial NGO services for UCRs, and management and implementation
of the Project. These services, including among others the cost of leasing vehicles and equipment, as well
as perdiem and tickets, are estimated to cost US$23.08 million equivalent.
Firmns
All contracts for firms would be procured using QCBS except for small and simple contracts estimated to
cost US$100,000 equivalent or less which would be procured using selection based on consultants
qualifications up to an aggregate amount of US$2.2 miflion equivalent and would be procured using Bank
Standard Request for Proposals.
Individuals
Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of
US$5.8 million equivalent
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firmns          2.48      0.00     0.00      0.00      2.20      1.92      0.00      6.60
(2.48)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.20)    (1.92)    (0.00)    (6.60)
B. Individuals     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      5.80     10.68     16.48
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (5.80)    (0.00)    (5.80)
Total   2.48     0.00      0.00      0.00     2.20      7.72      10.68     23.08
(2.48)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.20)    (7.72)    (0.00)   (12.40)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 55 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior review thresholds: The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement capacity
assessment of the project implementing unit and are summarized in Table B.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works
No works will be financed
by this project
2. Goods                        >250                     1CB                      All
50 - 250                 NCB                 First 2 processes
<50            National or Intemational      Post Review
Shopping
3. Services
Consultant Firms             >100                    QCBS               All documents plus
Technical Report
<100                     CQ                  Post Review
>50              Section V Guidelines   All (TOR CV, Contract)
Consultant                   20 - 50            Section V Guidelines         TOR only
Individuals                     <20               Section V Guidelines        Post Review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  8.40 m
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity assessment of
the PCU has recommended one full supervision mission to visit the field to carry out post review of
procurement actions. Based on the overall risk assessment (AVERAGE) the post-review field analysis
should cover a sample of not less than I in 5 contracts signed.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 'Review of Procurement
Documentation' and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-56-



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
1. Grants a/                               122.96                         100
2. Consultant Services                      11.69                         100
3. Goods                                    7.04                          .76
4. Unallocated                              8.31
Total Project Costs                        150.00
Front-end fee         0.00
Total                                      150.00
a/ The term Grants includes direct financial costs; specifically, they are the fees charged by financial
institutions in Colombia for delivering cash subsidies to poor families.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
In respect of disbursements for this Project, it was agreed that the Project will use the traditional
disbursement on the basis of SOE, following standard Bank disbursement procedures. Full documentation
for expenditures under contracts requiring the Bank's prior review will be submitted with the corresponding
application. Disbursement for goods contracts below US250,000, for services contracts below US$ 100,000
for consulting firms and US$50,000 for individual consultants, and for expenditures under Grants would be
made on the basis of SOEs. Documentation to support these expenditures would be maintained by the NCU
and made available for review by the Bank supervision missions and project auditors. Documentation
relating to SOEs would be retained for up to one year after the final withdrawal from the loan. These will
be phased out when the project is converted to PMR-based disbursement, as per action plan.
Special account:
A Special Account (SA) shall be established at the Banco de la Republica in accordance with Bank policies
and procedures. The amount of the initial deposit shall be determined by the disbursement mechanisms
agreed with the Bank. In its letter of application for the establishment of a special account, GOC will
confirm that:
(i) the NCU has direct and immediate access to the SA through the SIIF to pay Project eligible
expenditures;
(ii) through the SIIF, the NCU will authorize payment directly to the financial institution responsible
for delivering the grants to eligible families, and other contractors;
(iii) relevant Project staff has been trained on the proper use of the SIIF; and
(iv) given the nature of the project, the Bank agrees with the Borrower that advances can be used from
the special account for the financing of the cash transfer to the families. Each advance should be
documented to the NCU within 30 days from the date the special account is debited. To conserve the
value of the funds, the GOC agreed to advance the funds to the financial institution as close as feasible
to the date the financial institution will need to pay out these funds. Any estimated advance that will
- 57 -



not be documented within 30-day period should be advanced from the counterpart funds of the project.
The NCU will use the pilot phase to refine their systems of advance and documentation.
Six months after the SA has been established, a review will be completed to determine whether the SA is in
fact functioning in accordance with conditions (i)-(iv) above. If the Review finds that the SA is not
functioning in accordance with aforementioned conditions, alternative SA arrangements will be established.
Retroactive Financing: Payments made for expenditures prior to the date of the Loan Agreement in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of US$15,000,000 would be made on account of payments
made for expenditures incurred within twelve months prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, but in no
case earlier than July 31, 2000.
- 58 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
COLOMBIA: Human Capital Protection
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       g                            8
Firt Bank mission (identification)             10/17/2000                    06/02/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     01/29/2001                    11/06/2000
Negotiations                                    02/19/2001                    02/15/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/31/2001
Prepared by:
Vicente Paqueo and Laura Rawlings, Co-Task Managers
Preparation assistance:
Margarita Lannon, Language Program Assistant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Vicente Paqueo                    Team Leader
Laura Rawlings                    Co-Team Leader/Evaluation Specialist
Marta Ospina                      Procurement Specialist
Karla McEvoy                      Operations Analyst
Daniel Dulitzky                   Economist/Project Economic Analyst
Luis Schwarz                      Financial Management Specialist
Luis Carlos Guerrero              Financial Management Specialist
Luiz Gazoni                       Procurement Specialist
Carlos Eduardo Velez              Economist
Jairo Arboleda                    Social Assessment/Participation Specialist
Martha Laverde                    Education Specialist
Ana-Maria Arriagada               Social Protection Sector Manager
Anna Sant'anna                    Institutional Assessment Specialist
Gladys Acevedo-Lopez              Economist
Eduardo Velez                     Country Sector Leader
Jose Augusto Carvalho             Lawyer
Zeinab Partow                     Country Economist
lssam Abousleiman                 Disbursements Specialist
Margarita Lannon                  Language Program Assistant
David Varela                      Lawyer
Marie Khoury                      Disbursements Specialist
Cecilia Balchun                   Disbursements Specialist
Maria Lucy Giraldo                Procurement Specialist
- 59-



Annex 8: Documents In the Project File*
COLOMBIA: Human Capital Protection
A. Project Implementation Plan
*   Draft Operations Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*   Project Economic Analysis
C. Other
*   Terms of Reference for Process Evaluation of Pilot Project
*   Draft Terms of Reference for Impact Evaluation
*   Draft Operations Manual
*   List of Programs and Legislation for Indigenous Groups
*   Procurement Implementation Plan
*   Estimates of the Cost of Public Education, Health and Nutrition Services To Be Delivered to Project
Beneficiaries
*Including electronic files
- 60 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
COLOMBIA: Human Capital Protection
Jar-2001
Difference between expeded
and adtual
Original Amount In USS Mion                                 disburseffents
Proed ID      FY   Purpoee                                       I8RD         IDA                         CanoeL.   Undiab.       Ona   Ffn Reid
P057328       2000 SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT             5.00       0.00                           0.00       4.77      -023       0.00
P0067s       2000 co0 RURAL EDUCATION                              20.00       0.00                           0.00      20.00       1.70      0.00
POU1140       2C00 CARTAGENA WATER SUPPLY& SEWERAGE                 85.00       0.00                           0.00      75.75      10.06      0.00
P083643       2000 ENVIRO                                          506.00       0.00                           0.00     21299       0.00       000
PO2          2000 CO-FSAL                                          25.00       0.00                           0.00     108J6       -6.14      0.00
P06712        2000 EARTHQUACE RECCOVERY                            100.00       0.00                           0 00     10O000      1000       0.00
P050676       1999 CO- COMuINITY WORKS  ANOs A LA OBRA)              500        0.00                           000        379       2.79       0.00
P039082       1999 CO- YOUTH DEVELOPMENT                            137.00      0.00                           000      10000      100.00      000
P046112       198 TOLL ROAD CONCESSION                               7.20       0.00                           000        437        257       0.00
P001111       198 CO. PASTO EDUCATION                               75.00       0.00                           0.00      57.32      1282       0.00
P05243        IW8 URBAN INFRASTRULCTURE                              5.00       0.00                          0o00        3.83       1.83      0.00
Po0o061       1W08 PEASANT ENTERPRISE Z                             4000        000                            000       33a05      1760       0.00
P040102       1997 co0 ANTIOQUIA EDUCATION                           12 50      000                            000        7.78      5.28       0.00
PO0O684       1997 REGJEF.TA                                         15.00      0.00                           0.00      11.03      9.95       0.00
P039291       1996 FINANCLAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT                    20.00       0.00                           0.00       3.90      3.90      -0.94
P006U94       196 URBAN ENVIRONMENT TA                              145.00      0.00                           0.00      84.87     82.49       0.00
P006172       1996 SANTAFE I WadSuppM)                              86.00       0.00                           0.00       6.42      4.92       1.42
P006887       1996 URBAN TRNSPRT                                   249.30       0.00                           0.00      1900       14.00      1.54
POO689o       1995 POWER MARKET DEVELOPMENT & ENERGY (TA)           36.00       0.00                           000       1595       12.85     -5.15
PO693       1996 AGRICULTURE TECHNOLO                              11.00      0.00                           0.00       1.10       1.10      0.00
POO6         1994 ENERGY TECHNICALASSISTANCE                       9000        00o                            0.12       006       0 18      43.76
Po0666        19W4 C0- SECONDARY EDUCATION                          3900        000                            0.00      15.40      14.24     16.40
POO          1994 NATURAL RESOURCE MAN                             3000        0.00                           0.00       1.94       1.94      0.00
POO0s62       1991 CO PUSUC FINANCIAL MAN                           e0.00       0.00                           0.00       1.87       1.87      0.00
MUNIC DEVT
Total:    '193.00       0.00                           0.12      874.04     285.70      8.50
-61 -



COLOMBIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Commifted                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Appoval         Cmnpany                       Lon   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Pailic
1969/85/88/93/95   CF del Valle                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    00    00
1963/90            Coltejer                      6.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.02    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Harken                       20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987               PRODESAL                      0.00    0.59    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.59    0.00    0.00
1977189/92/94/96   Promigas                      7.50    0.00    0.00   16.67    7.50    0.00    0.00   16.67
1994/95            Promisan                      0.00    0.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.23    0.00    0.00
1996               Proyectos                     0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Sukasing                     24.82    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.25    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Surenting                     0.00    5.10    0,00    0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00
1995/99            Corfinsura                   25.00    0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       83.34    10.92   25.00    16.67   15.77    8.32   25.00   16.67
Approvals Pending Comnitment
FY Approval       Company                          LOa      Equity    Quasi    Partic
2001              Tolcemento                     3333.33     0.00      0.00  10666.67
2001              Cementos Caribe                4047.62     0.00  10000.00  12952.38
1999              Harken                            0.00  10000.00     0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     7380.95  10000.00  10000.00  23619.05
-62-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
COLOMBIA: Human Capital Protection
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America   widdle-
Colombia    Carib.  Income        DOvelpopmnt dlamond
1999
Populatn, mid-year (mllons)                            41.5       509      2,094                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method< USS)                    2,170      3,840     1,200
GNP (Atas method, USS biNlIns)                         90.0      1,955     2,613
Average annual growth, 1993-9
Population ()                                           1.9        1.6       1.1
Labor force (J                                          2.7        2.5       1.2      GNP                              Grosa
per                             primary
MAost recent *atimate (latest yer available, 1393499)                                capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty Dne)     21
Urban population (% of toAai populaton)                  73        76         43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         70        70         69
Infant mortality (per 1.000 lIve births)                 23        31         33
Child malnutrition (% of chl0dren under 5)                8         8         15                Access to safe water
Acceas to Improved water source (% of population)        78         75        88
lliiteracy (% of populaton age 15+)                       9         12        16
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   113        113       114              Colombla
Male                                                  113                  114              Lower-mIddle-Income group
Female                                                112                  116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1179     1989       1995      1910
Economic ratioa
GDP (USS bililons)                            27.9     39.5       99.1      86.6
Gross domeatic investment/GDP                 18.2     18.5       19.5      13.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP             15.2     18.0       15.0      17.8                      Trade
Grosa domestic savings/GDP                    19.9     22.7       13.6      11.0
Gross national savinga/GDP                    19.2     19.8       12.3       9.0
Current account balance/GDP                    1.4     -0.5       -5.3      -1.1      Domestic
Interest paymentsGDP                           0.9      4.0        1.6       21                                   Investment
Total debt/GDP                                21.0     42.7       33.6      39.9      Savings
Total debt servicelexports                    14.3     48.4       30.5      43.2
Present value of debt/GDP                                         32.7      45.1 
Present value of deWbexports                                     216.5     256.6
Indebtedness
1979-SI  1989-99     1998       1991   1199-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   34       34       0.6       -4.3       2.6         -Colombla
GNP per capita                        0.8      1.6  4 0.9         -7.1       1.0               Lower-middle-Income group
Exports of goods and services        5.8       5.8      5.9        4.7       3.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       19S       199N      Growth of Investment and GDP (1)
(% of GDP)                                                                            s
Agriculture                                   22.0      166       13.3      12.2
Industry                                      30.3     38.2       25.7      24.8     3
Mainufacturing                              23.0      2168      14.2      129
Services                                      47.7     45.1       61.0      62.9      o     =       -    t    s         
Private consumption                           70.7     68.1       67.5      87.9    .30
General government consumptin                  9.3      9.2       18.9      21.1              --GDI         _GDP
Imports of goods and services                 13.5     13.8       20.9      19.5
(aeraannualgrowth)  197949  1989.99  1998  1999  Growth of exports and Imports t%l
(average annual growth)
Agricuture                                     2.5     -2.1        0.6      -0.2     * 
Industry                                       4.7      1.9       -1.8     -11.0
Manufacturing                                2.8      -1.7      -0.3      -12.4    20
Services                                       3.0      5.3       -5.5      .0.7
Private consumption                            2.6      3.5        0.8      -5.1      0
General government consumptlon                 4.3       A4        0.9       4.3     2             05    0    27     _g
Gross domestic Investment                      2.3      5.7       -.7       -30.1    20
Imports of goods and services                  0.8     13.2       -2.8     -13.5            -Exporb               l 1  Imparis
Gross national product                         2.9      3.6        1.0      -5.5
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared with Its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond wiil
be Incomplete.
- 63 -



Colombia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989      i"                 Inton 4%
Domestic p-k
(% chang) e)
Coroumer prices                            24.7    26.1       16.7      9.2     920 
ImpllcitGoPdePlstr                         24.1    24.7       15.5     12.5
102
Govenment afinnce
(% of GDP, iudes cumrnt grants)                                                 0
Cufent revenue                               ..    10.2       11.9     12.6            94   9S   9B   97   98
Current budgel balance                       ..      1.2       -3.1    -4.7            -    G  deaDr    _      lCPI
Overall surplus/de6cit                       ..    -0.5       -5.3     -6.5                                  ___
TRADE
(US$S1  ii                                                     is      1        Export and Import levels 4USS mill.)
ToWl exports (fob)                        3,441    6,031    11,494   12,044    20,000
Cotfee                                   2,005    1,476     1,896    1,325
Petoleumn                                 140    1,400      2,333    3,761    15,oDO
Manufactures                             1,224    2,145    6,588    3,922
Total imports (ciI)                       2,978    4,558    14,836   10,311 i
Food                                      254      219      1,655    1,415     SD                       _
Fuel and energy                           322      316       158      270
CapWltgoods                              1,077    1,595     5,522    3,651        o  _
Exportpriceindex(1995-100)                    5      36        112      117           93  94  95  9B  97  98  99
Impoupriceindex(1995=100)                     4      43        116      116                mExport      smimports
Term of trade (1995=100)                    123       82        96      101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(Use mia)                                  1979    19          99      19       Curnt account balsncs to GDP 4%)
Exports of goods and services             4,532    7,330    13,560   13,959     0 -     _
Importsofgoodsandservices                 3,919    6,411    17,542   13,595
Reource balance                             613     919    -3,982       363
Not income                                 -277   -2,019    -1,735   -2,123
Not curnwn trnriers                          66     898        444      796              * -       -    - 
Current account balance                     402    -201    -5,273      -964      :1            l i i i
Financing items (net)                      -487     350      6,663    1,387
Changes in nt rserves                        85    -149    -1,390      -423     _
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ mni//ons)       ..       ..    8,741    8,103
Conversion rate (DEC, bOa#US$)             42.5   382.6   1,426.5  1,757.0
EXTERNAL DEBT an d RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      199S      1999
(USS mAnr)                                                                      Composion of 1995 debt 4US$ mSll.)
Totl debt outstanding and disbursed       5,869   16,886    33,263   34,519
lBRD                                      838    3,808     1,740    1,958                     A: 1,740:9
IDA                                        22       15        9         8            G0 8,232            a 2.801
Toa debt service                            703    3,905     4,565    6,596                                  E 1,397
IBRD                                      124     640        347      391
IDA                                         0        1         1        1
Comnpostion d net resource flows
Officai grantS                             10       37        61
Official credios                          137      102       107      923
Private creditor                          542      -10       566      995
Foreign dkect investment                  127     576      3,038    1,008
Porfolio equity                             0       0         26      663                       F: 21,084
World Bank program
Commitments                               331      330       227      591     A- IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             139     361        184      499     B- IDA    D-Other mulsdaterat  F- Private
Ptrincipal repayments                      52     333        233      271     C-Iw                       G - Shorn-term
Net flows                                  87      28        -48      228
Interpstapymenb                            73     308        115      123
Net treafer                                14    -280       -164      105
Development Economics                                                                                            8/29/00
- 64 -



Additional
Annex 11
Financial Management Action Plan
Human Capital Protection Project
Action                                                 Responsible            Date or Period
1. Review of the Financial Management                     Hector Leyva                 31.05.01
Component of the Operational Manual adopted by the     Rita Combaliza
Borrower through DAPR-FlP including:                   Edilma Nieto
(i) the operational procedures for the National Coordinating
Unit - NCU related to project management anrangements,
(ii) the criteria and procedures for eligible regional offices,
local governments, zonal offices, community organizations
and for the selection of beneficiaries;
(iii) the criteria for selection and financing through Fiduciary
Agents;
(iv) the procedures flow of funds and information to and
from the beneficiaries,
(v) internal control over project staffing, transactions,
accounting, auditing, reporting, procurement and financial
management.
(vi) Provision of a Plan satisfactory to the Bank for the
establishment of a project monitoring and evaluation system.
2. Establishment of the Project Financial Management      Hector Leyva                 31.03.01
Component within the National Coordinating Unit for this
Project specifically.
3. Establishment of the Monitoring and Evaluation System  Hector Leyva                 31.07.01
within the National Coordinating Unit for this Project  Rita Combaliza
specifically.
4. Action plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening  Hector Leyva              31.07.01
of the financial management system to prepare PMRs,
accordingly with guidelines acceptable to the Bank
- 65-



Additional
Annex 12
Colombia Human Capital Protecdon Project
Indizenous Peonies Development Stratery
Background
1. Colombia has a substantial and varied indigenous population. There are at least 80 plus ethnic groups
that, as of March 2000, constituted 733,802 persons, approximately 1.8% of the total Colombian
population. Indigenous peoples are concentrated mainly in the following departments: Cauca (23%), La
Guajira (21%), Nariiio (11%), Choco (5%), Caldas (5%) and C6rdoba (3%). Source: Department
National de Planificacion (DNP). Table 1, attached, provides further information on these groups.
2. There are more than 550 resguardos where indigenous people live, totaling approximately 29.9 million
hectares, or 26.2 percent, of national lands. There are also approximately 14.7 percent of the indigenous
population living outside of the resguardos.
3. The Government of Colombia (GOC) has promulgated several programs to benefit indigenous groups,
and is one of the more advanced South American countries when it comes to providing govemment
assistance to these vulnerable groups. Since 1994, indigenous peoples living on resguardos have received
investment transfers. The number of reservation benefiting from these transfers has grown from 364 to 470
in 1998, and the total population benefiting has grown from 439,267 to 522,682 in the same period. In
1997, the resguardos invested these transfers from the national govermnent specifically for potable water
and basic sanitation projects (29% of transfers), as well as for education (14.7%) and health (13.8%). In
2000, the amount of funds transferred to the resguardos totaled 48,740,236,140 pesos (approximately US$
22 million). Colombia, in fact, has a rich legal framework regarding indigenous groups, and a more
complete list and descr.ption of programs and legislation benefiting these populations can be found in the
project files.
4. Under the Bank-financed Human Capital Development Project, selected poor families who are
registered in the SISBEN I system would receive educational and health cash transfers dependent on certain
conditions to which the families must adhere. The grant of US$20 is more or less equal to the gap between
the cost of a basic food basket for determining the poverty line and the average income of indigent families.
Indigenous Peoples Development Strategy
5. The cash transfer program is only applicable to families registered in the SISBEN I system. However,
most indigenous peoples are not registered in the SISBEN I system as they live on resguardos and opted
years ago to refrain from using the SISBEN, as it would disqualify them from benefiting from the special
programs the GC had set up for them. This situation does lead to exclusion of many indigenous peoples
from the cash transfers program. However, it does not imply discrimination of indigenous groups. It is
simply a matter of limited resources (the cash transfers financed by the two Banks are not enough to cover
every poor famnily in the country) linked to the choice of targeting mechanism (SISBEN L in which many
indigenous groups are not registered). The choice of targeting instrument will not cover many poor
non-indigenous families as well.
-66-



6. The GC emphasized that the conditional cash transfers program is intended to benefit poor families
affected by the current economic crisis regardless of ethnicity. Therefore, it was agreed that no change in
project design would be made. Nevertheless, more information and dialogue about the indigenous
population issue would be desirable. Consequently, the Project will take the following measures:
* the Project Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system will provide evidence concerning the access of
indigenous peoples to the Project This evidence will be examined at the mid-term review and at the
conchlsion of the Project;
* as part of the strategic review of the Project at the end of the project, the evaluation will report on
options for adapting the Familias en Accion to reach populations not covered by the cash transfers
program, including indigenous groups; and
* DNP's office responsible for indigenous affairs wili monitor indigenous issues related to the cash
transfers program.
-67 -



TABLE 1: The Twelve Departments with Lareest IndieenoQUS PDulations
I  Cauca          131.149       4.64     24.6       Cauca           166.883     23. 78 237
2     C,u&ira      99.173         18.63     43.27      La Guajira      150.189     21.40    45. 1
3     Narinio      S8.627         11.02     54.29      Narinio       69.694        9.2      55. 1
4   Choco        28.100         5.28      59.57      Choco          36.173       5.15    160.2     i
5     C6rdoba      26.932         5.06      64.63      Caldas        34.573        4.93     65.
6     Caldas       18.868         3.55__  68.18        C&doba         24.012       342__  6_61
7     Vichada      17.414                   71.45      Punay9        23.323        3.32  _71.93
8     Pj4umyo__  17.306           3.25      74.70      Tolima        22.450        3_20_5_    1
9     Amazonas    16.596          3.12      77.82      Vaups _   20.044            2.86     77.99
10    Vaupes       14.913         2.80      80.62      Amazonas      18.94   _ 2.70        80.69
11 _ Antioquia    14.186          2.67  __  83.29   _ Vichada         17.932        2.55    83.24
[12 _ Cesar_        12.731        j2.39      85.68      Cesar         17.135        2.44  __S68
*   Source: DNP-UDT. Base GEC, 1997
-i Total indigenous population consider in 701.860
** Accumulate
'fable 2: Position of the Principai Departments with Indje-enous PODUlationS with Respect to Participnstion in
the National Indleenous Population. the Total Departmental PoDulation, and the Number of EthiGu
Cauca                    I              1~ ~~~ ~~ 6                   1          69 
La (Juaiira             ~       ~      ~~~2           13              '         13     
Crdoba                            6                            14_1__    14   _7 ____
P_uturn_avo                       7               __ _____ 15       __                   3
_______ ___ _   ,__  _ _ _  _ _              -__    _       _   _ _  _ __ -_         _  4---
Tolidna            I8 51                                       11                        17          1
Aazonas            ,_ ______.___._,4 _j__________ __                                      1
Source: DNP-UDT, Base GEC 1997
- 68 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 26153
COLOMBIA                                                                                          '(,NICEARAS
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z ,                                              f
JCA     |        VNEZE        B L   A ,    I:
ATL:AN Tl5'4e 0f
0j           /t gIeus rj                                                                 E  \RA2i!
<   rs  (< SAR )                                        PE<r>e  RU  L '
~~~                   Ma~~~~~~roccuto bewf
% I                                   XMerecvr/&l pgrc/ </ BOLIVIA
C   oa        t/<,   @Sint   5 7                                       <                        ,      J y  N4.s~~~~~~~~~-  ARAGkAI 
PANA    A                                                                                              _Monter_) __A_RGENT__N          _ _A R
t 7\  g   9L   @   x F; tq (    \   f't  90Rl'C VS  JO'   The boundaries, colors, denominrtions
and any other information shown on
~~AP~~~~1A  DHg ~~~~~this map do naf imply, on ilia port of
60  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~         I            Q~~~~~~~~~~uIa ~~~~~~~~~The Worldi Bank Group, any judgment
/,5 0;  /I4~                                                              a 4~   S   t   \   tl  on the legal status of any territoy or
* Fb t I / / t X ,- S C                           a ony endorsement or oc  f,iceo
Such bouna
N I HOQ'U IA              SANTA                        AR A tA                       VENEZUELA
X ) % X,3 (.~~~~~~~~~~ A S A Nq A R E
0~~~~~~                  ' Ir   i                                                                       V C  G T   ,
4A' 
.4-4                                    f gT    L      >.            Villovicencio
/Ct~~~~~N                                                                                               t XMFA|.-   .
,._< .... Ji,-- VIA                                            E  .'l'N.X
,,,,'~ ~  ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ pSpC' '_0'.d~-,
(~~~~~~~ TO rt.-v   /ts GUA             
DE>                   ,                    ~                    >    \                   MILES
ro7 G9 O0   50  tOO   150  200  250
to                        .   2/-- ~~~~~~l            K|L OM ET ER S
U       A V  A 7 QI N A
C~~~ A Qv                                                                R    ZI 
ELEVATION ABOVE10o00METERS
*     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                       |                       t
SD    DEPARTMENT CAPITAlS                      , ip   E     R       U               i>
-.-   RIVERS                                                               P  /       |
DEPARTMENTBOUNDARIES                                    4                       r \ ./  / _= |
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES M E                                                         I E
78- 74-                                                                                                                          A      _94
AUGUST 1 994



