Page  1
\08
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7050 - CO
Loan Agreement
(Human Capital Protection Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 23, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7050 - CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 23, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) upon the terms 
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary" means any of the children's mothers (or the designated 
Grant recipient in the absence of the natural mother as defined in the Operational 
Manual) referred to in Part A or B of the Project;
(b)
"DAPR-FIP" means the Departamento Administrativo de la Presidencia de la 
República acting through Fondo de Inversión para la Paz, the Borrower's Investment 
Fund for Peace;
(c)
"Department" means any of the territorial entities of the Borrower where 
Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out;
(d)
"DNP" means Departamento Nacional de Planeación, the Borrower's National 
Planning Department;
(e)
"Education Grant" means any of the grants to be provided under Part A of 
the Project;
(f)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(g)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures referred to in Section 
2.02 of this Agreement;
(h)
"EM" means Enlace Municipal, any of the units in a Participating 
Municipality responsible for coordinating with the NCU and RCUs (all as hereinafter 
defined) the carrying out of such Participating Municipality's activities under the 
Project;
(i)
"Financial Institution" means any financial institution, acceptable to 
the Bank, that enters into a Financial Institution Agreement (as hereinafter defined);
(j)
"Financial Institution Agreement" means any of the agreements entered 
into between the Borrower, through DAPR-FIP, and any Financial Institution whereby the 
Financial Institution undertakes to make, as an agent of the Borrower, all payments of 
expenditures under Parts A and B of the Project, and to provide assistance to the 
Borrower with respect to the Borrower's financial management obligations under this 
Agreement; 
(k)
"Grant" means either an Education Grant or a Health/Nutrition Grant (as 
hereinafter defined);
(l)
"Health/Nutrition Grant" means any of the grants to be provided under 
Part B of the Project;
(m)
"ICBF" means Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar, the Borrower's 
Institute of Family Welfare;
(n)
"NCU" means the unit referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
(o)
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(p)
"Participating Municipality" means any of the Borrower's municipalities 
which may be considered eligible, pursuant to the criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual, to participate in the carrying out of Part A or B of the Project;
(q)
"Participating Municipality Agreement" means any of the agreements 
Page  3
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(r)
"Pilot Phase" means the initial phase of the Project, referred to in 
Section 3.04 (a) (i) of this Agreement;
(s)
"Project Management Report" means any of the reports prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(t)
"RCU" means any of the units referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(u)
"SCFA" means the Borrower’s Subsidios Condicionados-Familias en Acción 
program, the Conditional Subsidies-Families in Action program which is supported by 
the Project;
(v)
"SISBEN 1" means the classification of the poorest families in the 
Borrower's territory, as set forth in the Borrower’s sistema de selección de 
beneficiarios de programas sociales (SISBEN);
(w)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(x)
"Supporting Agency" means: (i) ICBF; or (ii) any public or private 
agency, acceptable to the Bank, active in any Participating Municipality; and
(y)
"Supporting Agency Arrangement" means any arrangement entered into 
between DAPR-FIP and any Supporting Agency, whereby the Supporting Agency undertakes 
to provide assistance, including administrative and infrastructure support, to the NCU 
and the RCU in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 
of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
Grants, goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  Such fee shall be payable not 
later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) 
of the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; 
and (b) seventy-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Variable Rate; provided that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of 
Page  4
the principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, 
pay interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV 
of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate 
to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions 
of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless otherwise notified by the Borrower 
in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each 
Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for 
the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through DAPR-FIP (except Part 
D (a) and (d) of the Project which shall be carried out through DNP), with the 
assistance of the Supporting Agencies and the Participating Municipalities, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
and social protection practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower 
shall cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the provisions of a 
manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual), containing the detailed 
procedures for the carrying out of the Project, including, inter alia: the 
requirements to be fulfilled by municipalities and families as conditions for the 
provision of Grants (which shall include those set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement); the criteria for identification, registration and selection of 
Beneficiaries and the mechanisms for verification of compliance with Grant conditions; 
the criteria for the entry into the Project of Departments and the Participating 
Municipalities located therein; the detailed procedures for coordination and 
collaboration among the NCU, the RCUs, the Financial Institution, the Supporting 
Agencies, the Participating Municipalities (through their EMs), DNP and other 
stakeholders in the carrying out of the Project; the organization, terms of reference 
and staffing of the NCU and RCUs; the model of the Participating Municipality 
Agreements; the financial management procedures, the control procedures for the flow 
Page  5
of funds and the terms of reference for audits of the Project accounts; the 
procurement procedures; and the procedures, indicators and targets for Project 
supervision, monitoring and evaluation.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend, waive or fail to enforce the Operation Manual, or any 
provision thereof.  In case of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement 
and those of the Operational Manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower, through DAPR-FIP, shall ensure, throughout the 
execution of the Project, that the NCU, the RCUs, the Supporting Agencies and the 
Participating Municipalities (through their respective EMs) shall carry out their 
respective activities under the Project as provided in the Operational Manual.  For 
that purpose, the Borrower, through DAPR-FIP, shall, before making any Grant under 
Part A or B of the Project, enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank (the 
Participating Municipality Agreement), with the corresponding Participating 
Municipality providing for such Participating Municipality's collaboration in respect 
of the carrying out of Project activities in its territory, as provided in the 
Operational Manual.
(b)
The Borrower shall:  (a) cause DAPR-FIP and any supporting agency to 
perform their obligations under the respective Supporting Agency Arrangement in 
accordance with the terms thereof, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not allow any amendment to be made in such Arrangements; and (b) 
exercise its rights, and comply with its obligations under the Participating 
Municipality Agreements and, subject to Section 3.04 (b) (i) below, under the 
Financial Institution Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive 
or fail to enforce any of such agreements, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower, through DAPR-FIP, shall carry out Parts A and B 
of the Project in two phases:  (i) a pilot phase (the Pilot Phase) in which activities 
will only be carried out in eighteen Participating Municipalities in the Departments 
of Boyacá, Cundinamarca and Tolima, during a period of six months; and (ii) a full 
implementation phase in which activities will be carried out in all Participating 
Municipalities in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual for 
the entry into the Project of the Departments in which such Participating 
Municipalities are located. Not later than October 31, 2001, a review of the 
implementation of the Pilot Phase shall be carried out by the Borrower and the Bank; 
not later than December 31, 2001, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an action 
plan to incorporate the lessons learned from the Pilot Phase, in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank, in the design of such Parts of the Project; and, thereafter, the Borrower 
shall carry out such action plan as approved by the Bank.
(b)
As part of the review referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) above:  (i) an 
assessment of the performance of any Financial Institution under any Financial 
Institution Agreement shall be carried out, and, if deemed necessary by the Bank, such 
Financial Institution shall be replaced by another Financial Institution acceptable to 
the Bank; and (ii) a communications strategy, satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
carrying out of Part E of the Project shall be adopted by the Borrower through 
DAPR-FIP. 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain, during the execution of the Project:  
(a) a unit within DAPR-FIP responsible for the management, coordination, supervision 
and monitoring of the Project, such unit to have a structure and functions 
satisfactory to the Bank, and staff with qualifications and experience satisfactory to 
the Bank (the NCU); and (b) with the assistance of any Supporting Agency under a 
Supporting Agency Arrangement satisfactory to the Bank, regional units with structure, 
functions and staff satisfactory to the Bank (the RCUs) for purposes of assisting the 
NCU in the coordination and management, at the Participating Municipality level, of 
the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through DAPR-FIP, shall:
(a)
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis the carrying out of the Project 
Page  6
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, all in an manner satisfactory to the 
Bank and taking into account the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual and 
the data produced by the management and evaluation system under Part D of the Project;
(b)
furnish to the Bank, not later than April 30 and October 31 of each year 
during the execution of the Project, a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall request, by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, on the 
compliance by the Borrower, Participating Municipalities and Beneficiaries with their 
respective obligations in the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project;
(c)
furnish to the Bank, not later than April 30 and October 31 of each year 
during the execution of the Project, a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall request, on the progress of the Project during the six-month period 
preceding the date of such report;
(d)
conduct a mid-term review with the Bank and DNP, on the 18th month after 
the Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall request, of the progress of 
the Project, based on the reports referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, including the information provided by the monitoring and evaluation system 
under Part D of the Project on access to the Grants by indigenous population groups 
living outside national reservations; 
(e)
not later than the end of the 21st month after the Effective Date, 
furnish to the Bank an action plan including all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the reports and information referred 
to in paragraph (d) above; and 
(f)
upon the Bank’s approval, the Borrower shall carry out the action plan 
referred to in paragraph (e) above in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.07. The Borrower, through DNP, shall, not later than December 31, 
2001, furnish to the Bank baseline data and an accompanying report with an analysis of 
such data, satisfactory to the Bank, which will be used for purposes of the external 
evaluation of the Project to be carried out under Part D (d) of the Project, and 
shall, through DNP, carry out such evaluation in accordance with the terms of 
reference referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 3.08. The Borrower, through DAPR-FIP, shall:
(a)
maintain a steering committee, composed of representatives of the 
Borrower's agencies and ministries (including the Ministry of Health and the Ministry 
of Education) participating in the Borrower's social support network program (Red de 
Apoyo Social), with the responsibility of providing technical guidance and supervising 
the monitoring and evaluation of the several projects of the Borrower (including the 
Project) under such program; and
(b)
not later than February 28 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, furnish to the Bank a report on the activities of such committee in the 
calendar year preceding any such report.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through DAPR-FIP, establish and maintain a 
financial management system in the NCU, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures of the Borrower related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through DAPR-FIP, shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and those for the Special Account 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
Page  7
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year:  (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and the report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower, through DAPR-FIP, shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, through DAPR-FIP, shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system 
referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not 
later than December 31, 2001, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
Page  8
this Section, the Borrower (through DAPR-FIP) shall prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank and DNP not later than 45 
days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such 
period.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower;
(b)
terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, for the external Project 
impact evaluation to be carried out under Part D (d) of the Project have been 
furnished to the Bank; and
(c)
the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) has been 
established.
Section 5.02. The date November 26, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustín
Carrera 7A, No. 6-45, Piso 3
Bogotá
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINHACIENDA
43289 MHAC CO
(571) 3509344
With copies to:
Departamento Administrativo de la Presidencia de la República
Fondo de Inversión para la Paz
Calle 7, No. 6-54
Bogotá
Colombia
Facsimile:
(571) 2844120
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  9
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Juan Esteban Orduz Trujillo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Xavier Coll
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
   (Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Grants
  122,960,000
100% of amounts
disbursed
(2)
Goods
    7,040,000
76%
(3)
Consultants' services
   11,690,000
100%
(4)
Unallocated
    8,310,000
TOTAL
  150,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
any expenditure under any of the Categories in the table in paragraph 1 
above, unless and until the Borrower shall have paid to the Bank in full the front-end 
Page  10
fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of 
$15,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within 
twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for Grants, and for expenditures under contracts for 
purchase of goods and consultants' services that are not subject to prior review by 
the Bank pursuant to Section I, Part D.2, and Section II, Part D.2, of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the 
Borrower's central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received:  (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Page  11
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of the Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means the 
amount of $12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the 
amount of $4,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of $10,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
Page  12
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of the Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of:  (a) the amount so requested; 
and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management 
Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the amount of $30,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to alleviate the impact of the Borrower’s 
current economic crisis on its most vulnerable population by protecting and promoting 
poor children’s human capital.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
SCFA Education Grants
Provision of grants (the Education Grants) to the mothers (or the designated 
Grant recipient in the absence of the natural mother as defined in the Operational 
Manual) of children aged seven (7) years old and more and less than eighteen (18) 
years old, who belong to families included in SISBEN 1, to finance scholarships in 
primary (grades 2-5) or secondary (grades 6-11) education schools as provided in the 
Operational Manual.
Part B:
SCFA Health/Nutrition Grants
Provision of grants (the Health/Nutrition Grants) to the mothers (or the 
designated Grant recipient in the absence of the natural mother as defined in the 
Operational Manual) of children who are less than seven (7) years old, who belong to 
families included in SISBEN 1, and do not receive assistance under the community 
nutrition and pre-school program (Hogares Comunitarios de Bienestar) of ICBF, for 
purposes of assisting in the health care, including nutrition, needs of those 
children, all as provided in the Operational Manual.
Part C:
Project Management
Strengthening of the capacity of the NCU and RCUs to manage and coordinate the 
carrying out of the Project, through the provision of specialized technical assistance 
and staff, the acquisition and use of appropriate office equipment and information 
Page  13
systems, and the provision of communication services and training.
Part D:
Monitoring and Evaluation
Establishment and operation of a monitoring and evaluation system to assess the 
Project’s success in achieving the expected outcomes and impacts (including access to 
the Grants by indigenous population groups living outside national reservations) and 
to verify compliance with the conditions for provision of Grants, which will include: 
(a) a process evaluation of the Grants made during the Pilot Phase; (b) a management 
information system; (c) a community monitoring and social control system; and (d) an 
external impact evaluation of the Project.
Part E:
Promotion and Dissemination
Carrying out of campaign activities, through all means of communication and 
national and local workshops, to promote and disseminate the objectives of the 
Project, and the availability of the Grants.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning August 15, 2006
through August 15, 2017
4.17 %
On February 15, 2018
4.09 %
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Page  14
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two months prior to any Principal Payment Date 
shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any 
Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the 
date of withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto, regarding preference for domestically manufactured goods, shall apply to 
goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent but more than $50,000 per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines regarding national competitive bidding procedures.  Bidding documents, 
acceptable to the Bank and in a standardized form for the Project, shall be used in 
the procurement under this Part C.1.  Without limitation to any other provision of 
this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods 
Page  15
to be undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1:
(a)
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, 
will be treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder 
or group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit 
their bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing services.  There 
shall not be any requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's 
registration in any public registry, chamber of commerce or similar entity, whether in 
Colombia or elsewhere, or to appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless 
and until such bidder is awarded the corresponding contract.
(b)
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish.  Date, time and place for 
the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents.  Bid opening shall 
coincide with, or take place promptly after, the final date and time of the period for 
bid submission stipulated in the bidding documents.
(c)
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid.  Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions 
and evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents.  If any factor additional 
to the amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such 
factor or factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes 
of determining the lowest evaluated bid shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding 
documents.  For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or 
amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the 
corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors.
(d)
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, 
more specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons 
officially charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they 
are performing their official duties, without the corresponding bidder's written 
authorization.  Moreover, bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization 
as a condition to be entitled to bid.  This confidentiality requirement shall apply 
until the award of contract is notified to the successful bidder.  Thereafter, 
confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid portions for which 
confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in question.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent per contract or less, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of national or international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, and a standard request for 
quotations acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts during any calendar 
year of Project implementation, the proposed procurement plan for the Project during 
such year shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of 
all goods during any such year shall be undertaken in accordance with the 
corresponding procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to: (a) the contracts for goods to be awarded pursuant to the provisions 
of Part B of this Section I; and (b) the first two contracts for goods to be awarded 
pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section I.
Page  16
3.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to the review by the Bank of any contract not governed by the provisions of 
paragraph 2 above.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following 
provisions of this Section.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The short-list of consultants for services to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in paragraph 1 above, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultants’ services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,200,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereof.
2.
Individual Consultants
Consultants' services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, costing in the aggregate not more than the 
equivalent of $5,800,000, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in -accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereof.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals during any 
calendar year of Project implementation, the proposed plan for the selection of 
consultants under the Project during such year shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services during any such 
year shall be undertaken in accordance with the corresponding selection plan as shall 
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Page  17
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent but more than $50,000 equivalent, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that with respect to the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent but more than $20,000 
equivalent per contract, the terms of reference for their respective assignments shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.
SCHEDULE 5
Requirements for Provision of Grants
1.
To be a Participating Municipality, the municipality: (a) will need to have a 
bank located in its territory through which Grants may be disbursed to Beneficiaries; 
(b) will have to demonstrate its capacity to provide adequate health and education 
services to the children who benefit from the Grants; and (c) must not be benefiting 
from other major social safety net program of the Borrower, as detailed in the 
Operational Manual.
2.
To benefit from an Education Grant, the child must:  (a) be enrolled in primary 
(grades 2-5) or secondary (grades 6-11) schools; (b) maintain a class attendance rate 
of not less than 80% measured every two school months; and (c) not repeat grades more 
than once.
3.
The amount of Education Grants shall be the equivalent of six Dollars ($6) and 
twelve Dollars ($12) per month per primary and secondary school students, 
respectively.
4.
To receive a Health/Nutrition Grant, Beneficiaries will have to bring their 
children to health clinics for scheduled monitoring of weight gain against agreed 
standards, and to receive the basic health services provided by the Participating 
Municipality in accordance with the Borrower's Ministry of Health norms.
5.
The amount of Health/Nutrition Grants shall be the equivalent of twenty Dollars 
($20) per month per Beneficiary.
