Page  1
July 31, 2000
Ms. Emilia Ruiz de Ramírez
Directora General
Agencia Colombiana de
Cooperación Internacional
Bogota, Colombia
Re:  Japanese Grant for the preparation of the Human Capital 
Protection
(Cash Transfers) and Social Sector Adjustment Projects.
Grant No. TF026299
Dear Ms. Ruiz de Ramírez:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of 
grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding 
five hundred sixty two thousand U.S. Dollars (US$562,000) (the Grant) to 
Agencia Colombiana de Cooperación Internacional (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its 
request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to 
contract the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and 
conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the 
Recipient, by signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this 
Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter 
Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrés Solimano
Director
Country Management Unit
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED:
AGENCIA COLOMBIANA DE 
   COOPERACION INTERNACIONAL
By /s/
Authorized Representative
Date:
August 10, 2000
IN WTINESS THEREOF:
Page  2
DEPARTMENT OF NATIONAL PLANING (DNP)
By /s/
Authorized Representative
Date:
August 9, 2000
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the Human 
Capital Protection (Cash Transfers) and Social Sector Adjustment Projects. 
(the Projects).  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given 
are as follows:
(a) carrying out of an assessment of the Recipient’s social protection 
system to help identify alternative improvement measures for this sector 
through the carrying out of: (i) an inventory of the existing social 
protection programs; (ii) an analysis of the household welfare during and 
before the Colombia’s economic crisis; (iii) the design of a mechanism for 
data collection to assess the impact of social safety net interventions; and 
(iv) an assessment of alternative financial and institutional arrangements 
for the implementation of a cash transfer mechanism (these Activities are 
estimated to cost US$324,000 equivalent);
(b) identification of safety net tools through the design and 
preparation of a training program for Colombia’s  youth taking into account 
lessons learned under regional relevant experiences (these Activities are 
estimated to cost US$69,000 equivalent); and
(c) promoting participatory dialog on social sectors reforms through 
the carrying out of policy and economic analysis of the Recipient’s labor and 
human capital formation (these Activities are estimated to cost US$169,000 
equivalent).
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for 
the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  
The Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit 
the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to 
evaluate the results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify the 
Bank against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of 
claims against the Bank in connection with the Activities, except those 
resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or 
external consultants.
4.
The Activities shall be completed by not later than December 31, 2001, 
or such later date as the Bank may establish by notice to the Recipient (the 
Closing Date).  Except in special circumstances, no proceeds of the Grant 
shall be used to fund Activities after Bank approval of financing for the 
Projects, and the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date 
of such approval.  After the Closing Date, the Bank may at any time cancel 
the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) 
required to assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the 
responsibility solely of the Bank (in consultation with the Recipient) and 
shall be governed, except as otherwise decided by the Bank, by the provisions 
of the Attachment to this Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied 
by, or in the territory of the Republic of Colombia on the Consultants or any 
of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents 
thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate 
the Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the 
Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, 
Page  3
terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the 
Activities if any of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) 
the Recipient has failed to perform any of its obligations under this Letter 
Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which 
the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Republic of Colombia, to 
make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development 
credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have 
been suspended.  The Bank may also terminate the right of the Recipient to 
receive Grant funds if: (a) the Bank has decided, at any time after 
consultation with the Recipient and the Republic of Colombia, to withdraw its 
support to any of the Projects; or (b) the Republic of Colombia has withdrawn 
its request for the Bank’s assistance in the financing of any of the 
Projects.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall 
not have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall 
have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank 
pursuant to this Letter Agreement.
Attachment
Consultants' Services
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Statement 15.00 of the Bank's Administrative Manual, dated July 
1997 (the Administrative Manual), the Introduction and Section IV of the 
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Attachment.
2.  Services rendered by individual consultants for the Activities under 
paragraph 1 (a), (b) and (c) of the Annex shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions, which 
are consistent with the provisions of the Administrative Manual, of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
