Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16830
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENERGY PRE-INVESTMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1973-KE)
June 30, 1997
Water, Urban and Energy 1 Division
Eastern and Southern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =        Kenya Shilling (Ksh
US$1.0                        Ksh 56 ( as of January 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I kilometer (km)             =        0(621 miles
I square kilometer (km2)              0.386 square miles
I kilovolt (kV)              =        1.000 volts
I megawatt (MW)              =        1.000 kilowatts
I megavolt ampere (MVA)      =        1.000 kilovolt amperes
I gigawatt hour (GWh)        =        1.000 kilowatt hours
I ton of oil equivalent               10.500.000 kilocalories
bbl         =    barrel                        Mfi=               megajoule
cm          =    centimeter                    Mm3         =      million cubic meters
GW          =    gigawatt                      m3                 cubic meter
ha          =    hectare                       MVA         =      megavolt amperes
kgoe             kilogram of oil equivalent    MWh         =      megawatthour
ktoe        =    kilotonnes of oil equivalent  od          =      oven dry
kVA         =    kilvolt amperes               sv                 solid volume
kw. kWh    =    kilowatt. kilowatthour         t                  tonne
LPG         =    liquefied petroleum gas       TCF         =      trillion cubic feet
M  .             million                       tpa, tpy    =      tonnes per annum, tonnes per year
twe         =     tonnes of wood equivalent
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIDA                  Canadian International Development Agency
ESMAP                 Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme
FINNIDA               Finnish Intemational Development Agency
GoK                   Govemment of Kenya
KfW                   Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
KPC                   Kenya Power Company Limited
KPLC                  Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited
KVDA                  Kerio Valley Development Authority
LBDA                  Lake Basin Development Authority
MoE                   Ministry of Energy
MoERD                 Ministry of Energy and Regional Development
MoF                   Ministry of Finance
NOCK                  National Oil Corporation of Kenya
NPDP                  National Power Development Plan
ODA                   Overseas Development Administration
REP                   Rural Electrification Program
TARDA                 Tana and Athi Rivers Development Authority
TRDC                  Tana River Development Company
UNDP                  United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
July I  -June 30
Vice President              Callisto E. Madavo
Director                    Harold E. Wackman
Technical Manager           Jeffrey Racki
Team Leader                 Joel J. Maweni



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENERGY PRE-INVESTMENT
PROJECT
(Credit 1973-KE)
CONTENTS
PREFACE .................................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................................................................                                                                                           ii
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................................................1
A.   STATEMENT /EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES ................................................................................1I
B.  ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .................................................................................2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...................................3
D. SUSTAINABILITY OF PROJECT ...................................................................6
E.   BANK  PERFORMANCE .....6............................................................................6
F.   BORROWER  PERFORMANCE ..................................................................................7
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME  ...................................................................7
H.  FUTURE OPERATION .................................................................................7
1.   KEY  LESSONS  LEARNED .................................................................................8
PART II- STATISTICAL TABLES ................................................................                                                                                  10
Table  1:         Summary  of Assessments ................................................................................                                               10
Table 2:          Related  Bank  Loans/Credits ................................................................................                                          II
Table 3:          Project Timetable .................................................................................                                                    12
Table 4:          Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated  and Actual .......................................................... 12
Table 5A:   Key  Physical Indicators for Project Implementation ........................................................................... 12
Table SB:   Key  Financial Indicators for Project Implementation ..........................................................................   13
Table 6A:   Key  Indicators for Operation  of Moi South  Lake Road ....................................................................... 13
Table 6B:   Key  Indicators for Operation  of Olkaria I Make-Up  Wells ................................................................. 13
Table 7:          Studies Included  in Project ................................................................................                                          14
Table 8A:   Project Costs ................................................................................I 5
Table 8B:   Project Financing ................................................................................                                                           15
Table 9:          Economic Costs and Benefits ................................................................................                                           15
Table  10:    Status of  Legal Covenants .................................................................                                                               18
Table  11:    Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements ................................................................                                           20
Table  12:    Bank  Resources: Staff Inputs ................................................................                                                            21
Table  13:    Bank  Resources:  Missions ................................................................                                                               21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



- 11 -
APPENDICES
A.    Mission Aide Memoire
B.    Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C.    Borrower Comments on Part I
D.    Map: IBRD No. 28876



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENERGY PRE-
INVESTMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1973-KE)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Geothermal and Energy Pre-
Investment Project in the Republic of Kenya, for which Credit 1973-KE in the amount of
SDR31.6 million ( US$40.7 million equivalent) was approved on December 22, 1988 and made
effective on November 14, 1989.
The Credit was closed on April 30, 1996 compared with the original date of June 30,
1994. Final disbursement took place on October 4, 1996 at which time a balance of 2.2 SDR
million (US$ 3.2 million equivalent) was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Joel Maweni of the Water, Urban and Energy 1
Division of the Africa Region and Josphat Sasia of the Bank's Nairobi Mission. The ICR was
reviewed by Mr. Harold Wackman, Country Director for Kenya and Djibouti. The borrower
provided comments that are included as appendix C to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission to Nairobi
during May 18-26, 1996. The ICR is based on the appraisal report, supervision reports,
correspondence between the borrower and the Bank during implementation and other material
available in the Bank's project files. The borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing its own
evaluation of the project's preparation and execution (Appendix B) and commenting on the draft
ICR.



- ii -
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Kenya's known energy resources include hydro, geothermal power, biomass. wind and
solar energy. Exploration for hydrocarbons has been going on but no significant reserves have
been discovered. Adequate and reliable supplies of power and energy are crucial for economic
growth as the current shortage of power supplies is seriously affecting economic activity that is
essential for poverty reduction. Because of concerns about poor macro economic management,
governance and multiparty democracy, in November 1991 donors decided to withdraw aid to
Kenya. This action compounded the power sectors difficulties in raising resources for
investment. When the aid embargo was subsequently lifted. difficulties in reaching agreement
with donors on sector policies further delayed new investments in power generation. As a result,
the power system is inadequate to meet current demand. Load shedding has become inevitable.
The on-going rehabilitation of existing plants and the 88 MW capacity to be installed by the
private sector under BOO arrangements are expected to ease the pressure on demand.
Nevertheless, the additional capacity (about 338 MW) planned under the recently approved (June
19, 1997) Energy Sector Reform and Power Development Project (Cr. 2966-KE) is required to
bridge the existing gap between demand and supply which is increasing private sector costs and
discouraging new investment.
2.   IDA has provided seven loans and credits totaling US$307 million for financing power
subsector investments in Kenya between 197 1-1988. Three of the loans/credits financed
hydroelectric development on the Tana River and while the other four financed geothermal
development activities (including power plant construction). Four other loans/credits totaling
US$ 80 million were made for reforestation and related infrastructure. In the petroleum
subsector, the Bank financed the construction of the products pipeline from Mombasa to Nairobi
and two petroleum exploration promotion projects totaling US$ 30 million. A complete listing
of the Loans and Credits is available in Statistical Table 2.
Project Objectives
3.    The objectives of the project were: (i) to assist Kenya in preparing an expansion of its
electric generating capacity at least cost through utilization of indigenous energy resources. This
included mobilization and institutional development of a major geothermal development
program to be implemented over the subsequent 20 years; (ii) comparative evaluation of
potential hydro sites; (iii) development of options for energy pricing policies that encourage
more efficient use of fuels and achieve savings and resource mobilization; and (iv) rural
electrification policy and household fuel supply and distribution.
4.    The objectives were clear, unambiguous and flexible and were aimed at facilitating
provision of infrastructure needed for long-term economic growth in line with the Country
Assistance Strategy. The project assisted GoK in preparing a least-cost power generation
expansion plan largely through utilization of indigenous energy resources (geothermal, hydro,
etc.). Some of the specific investments prepared under the project are to be implemented as part
of the Energy Sector Reform and Power Development Project (Cr. 2966-KE) and the Sondu



- HI -
Miriu Hydropower Project which has secured funding from OECF. Power generation based on
indigenous resources will help Kenya to minimize its oil import bill especially given the rapid
growth of demand for commercial energy. The studies on energy pricing options were required
to assist with the design of reforms to improve sector efficiency.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The Kenya Power Company Limited (KPC) which wvas then managed by the Kenya
Power and Lighting Company Limited (KPLC) under contract management arrangements, was
successful in implementing and achieving the objectives of both the geothermal development and
the energy pre-investment components of the project. With respect to the geothermal
development component:
(i)    a total of 33 wells were drilled compared to the planned 32. On the basis of the drilled
wells, adequate resources were proven for construction of a 64MW power plant at
Olkaria North East; strong evidence of the commercial viability of developing Olkaria
West was obtained; it was confirmed that about 20MW can be generated at the Eburru
site compared to the estimated level of 55MW assessed during the appraisal stage of the
project; and four out of eight make-up wells drilled in Olkaria East Production Field
(EPF) were connected to the power plant and helped to restore the power station's output
to its rated capacity of 45MW after having declined to about 31 MW;
(ii)   Moi South Lake Road was successfully completed and has greatly improved
communication to the power station and also stimulated economic activities (particularly
horticulture and tourism) in the surrounding areas;
(iii)  a feasibility study and design and tender documents for a 2x32 MW power plant at
Olkaria North-East were prepared; financing for the plant has been secured and
implementation of the project is about to commence; and
(iv)   geothermal scientific equipment and supplies were procured and used in exploration and
evaluation of the geotherrnal resources.
6.    Thus, implementation of the component has: (i) facilitated the GoK's preparation of a
least-cost power expansion program of which some of the plants are expected to be soon under
implementation; and (ii) enabled KPC to continue operating the existing Olkaria I Power plant at
its rated output of 45 MW through drilling and connection of make-up wells; (iii) enabled KPC
to build its capacity in geothermal resource exploration and production; and (iv) contributed to
the development of the Lake Naivasha area.
7.    With respect to the Energy Pre-Investment Component the following results have been
achieved:
(i)   an optimization and feasibility study of the development of Sondu Miriu Basin and its
hydro resources was carried out as planned, an engineering report for the lower Miriu
Weir area power station, and design and tender documents for a 60MW power plant were



- iv -
prepared. Financing for the power plant has been secured and project implementation is
about to commence;
(ii)   comparative reconnaissance, pre-feasibility and optimization studies on several potential
hydropower sites, including benefits of irrigation and flood control were not carried out
as originally planned. Instead, prefeasibilitv and feasibility studies were done for
individual sites including the Ewaso Ngiro and Grand Falls sites;
(iii)  energy pricing studies originally intended to be funded under the credit were deferred and
were subsequently funded under a project preparation facility for the Energy Sector
Reform and Power Development Project. Implementation of the recommendations of the
studies has enabled KPLC to progressively raise electricity tariff from 30% of LRMC at
the beginning of the project to about 72% by October 1996, helped to improve the
financial perfornance of the power sector and has facilitated deregulation of the
petroleum subsector;
(iv)  the LPG study initially to be funded by CIDA was later carried out in FY1995/96 with
resources of the Kenya Pipeline Company; and
(v)   implementation of rural electricity and cost minimization study financed by ADB is still
in progress.
8.    Thus the objectives of the energy pre-investment component were substantially achieved.
The studies to assist with the preparation of the power sector investment program were carried
out (items i and iii above). The energy pricing and other policy studies were delayed because the
expected funding from donors did not materialize. Although the studies' original objectives were
achieved (para. 7), their deferment contributed to delay in reaching agreement between the GoK
and the Bank on electricity pricing and deregulation of the petroleum subsector, which in turn
delayed implementation of the power subsector investment program. The adjustment in
electricity prices in 1994 and 1996 enabled the power sector to improve its financial performance
starting in FY1994/95, the fiscal year in which the first adjustment was in effect for a full year.
9.    Project Costs and Financing Arrangements. Total project costs arnounted to
US$70.95 million compared to the appraisal estimate of US$59.58 million representing a cost
overrun of about 19.1%. The cost overruns were attributable to the change in scope of the
geothermal development component to include the connection of make-up wells for Olkaria I
power plant, more extensive training and the treatment of salaries of geothermal field staff as
project costs, which was not done at appraisal. Three out of the five cofinanciers identified at the
beginning of the project did not provide funding. These were KfW for studies of potential hydro
sites, FINNIDA for the rural electrification study and CIDA for the LPG study. The rural
electrification study was later financed by the AfDB. Financing from KfW did not materialize as
the focus of the studies was changed and other donors came forward to finance these. Financing
from the other two donors appears not to have been firm at the time the IDA Credit was
approved. Overall, the actual financing of the project shows that KPC ended up committing
about three times the level of resources anticipated at appraisal. This was partly due to
procurement difficulties with IDA (para. 12) and partly due to changes in project scope and the
capitalization of training expenses and salaries of KPC's geothermal field staff.



- v -
10.   Performance of the Bank. Overall, the Bank's performance during project
identification, preparation, appraisal and implementation is considered satisfactory. The mid-
term review was successful in putting project implementation back on track by clearly
identifying problems and successfully proposing corrective measures at an appropriately early
stage. Particularly useful was the introduction of an action plan agreed between KPC and the
Bank to track implementation of important items. The Bank was also flexible in agreeing to
reallocate funds among credit categories to take account of emerging needs and priorities. There
were, however, differences of opinion between KPC and the Bank on procurement issues with
the Bank staff raising concerns about the non-use of Bank procedures by KPLC and KPC
alleging inconsistent positions by the Bank staff. As a result a number of items originally
intended for Bank financing had to be funded by KPC.
11.   Performance of the Borrower. Implementation start-up was slow mainly because of
procurement delays and putting in place a project implementation team. Later on, there was a
remarkable change in implementation when all project staff positions were filled, four engineers
were trained in project monitoring and others were trained in project management and
procurement. KPC produced high quality quarterly progress reports which facilitated its own
and the Bank's monitoring of project implementation performance.
12.   Project Outcome. The project objectives have been satisfactorily met (paras. 5-7). The
Borrower has prepared adequate operational plans for the physical components of the project; i.e.
the Moi South Lake Road and the make-up wells. Subprojects prepared under this project will
be implemented under the Energy Sector Reform and Power Development and Sondu Miriu
Hydropower projects. The project outcome is rated satisfactory (para. 24). The Incremental
Economic Rate of Return (EIRR) is re-estimated at 15% when benefits are calculated as the
value of incremental sales at the current average tariff or 23% when consumer willingness to pay
is considered. The benefit of the project are much higher if the impact of the Moi South Lake
Road and the institutional capacity for geothermal development are taken into account.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
13.   Project Implementation Experience-Most Important Findings. The following were
the most important findings:
(i)   up until mid-term review, significant project management weaknesses, particularly in
procurement and monitoring of activities adversely impacted on project implementation;
(ii)  subsequent actions--engagement of the Geothermal Board of Consultants, the Geothermal
Development Coordinator and a support group of procurement and project monitoring
units greatly facilitated project implementation. Further establishment of an
environmental unit enhanced KPC's capacity to process environmental studies. Training
of staff through a properly designed TA program helped to efficiently sustain KPC's
drilling program;
(iii) efficient and timely provision of drilling spare parts and supplies was essential for
implementation of KPC's drilling program, but was affected by procurement problems -



- vi -
particularly the dispute with IDA on what appeared to IDA to be an open-ended
arrangement with a procurement agent---the stopgap of which led to slower acquisition of
spare parts by KPC;
(iv)  the requirement for IDA prior review of all expenditures financed under the credit slowed
down project implementation; and
(v)   the GoK's payment procedures resulted in delayed payments to contractors and suppliers
and in KPC incurring high interest charges. The delays in processing payments by KPC
were quite frequent and occurred primarily at the Ministry of Energy.
14. Project Operation Plan and Sustainability. Satisfactory operation plans have been
prepared for the Moi South Lake Road and the make-up wells for the Olkaria I Power Plant
(paras. 25-28). The operation plan for the Moi South Lake Road include regular maintenance at
stated intervals which are consistent with maintenance practices for bituminous roads. The Plan
has been developed jointly by KPC and the Ministry of Public Works and Housing (MoPWH).
MoPWH will implement and finance the road maintenance as agreed at appraisal. The operation
and maintenance plan for make-up wells include monitoring of make-up wells and regular
servicing of wellhead equipment. Project sustainability is likely because of the substantial
institutional capacity that KPC has built in geothermal resource development, the adequate
arrangements for maintenance and operation of project facilities and, above all the progress
achieved in restructuring and commercializing sector operations, and in introducing private
sector participation (para. 20).
15.    Lessons Learned from the Project. The main lessons to be derived from
implementation of this project are as follows:
(i)   it is possible with an appropriately designed capacity building program to improve skills
to a point where an agency can operate with minimum long-term technical assistance
(para. 30). The ingredients which seem to have been most critical in the design of KPC's
program were: (a) the arrangement with PetroCanada International Assistance
Corporation (PIAC) under which PIAC staff initially occupied line management positions
but later switched to advisory roles; (b) senior management commitment to technical
assistance goals and objectives; and (c) attractive working environment including
remuneration packages;
(ii)  identifying the right mix of skills required for project implementation and ensuring that
the staff are in place prior to project implementation (e.g. the position of geothermal
coordinator) with clear roles and responsibilities is important for successful execution of
the project (para. 12);
(iii)   a comprehensive mid-term review can be instrumental in identifying problems and
taking corrective actions at a critical stage in project implementation (para. 12 ); and
(iv)  financial covenants need to be properly designed at the beginning taking into account the
existing structural constraints in the sector. Although the agreed covenants required the power
industry to achieve 30% self-financing levels, the investment financing arrangements were not



- vii -
fully considered and the mechanisms (e.g. automatic adjustments for fuel price increases,
exchange rate variations and autonomous regulatory arrangements) for ensuring tariff
adjustments were not agreed upfront with the Government. As a result financial objectives
remained elusive till towards the end of the project when the GoK agreed to adjust tariffs
following completion of a tariff study (paras. 14-17). The mechanisms for securing Borrower
compliance with financial covenants could have been put in place upfront at the project
preparation stage. Alternatively, where the analytical basis for designing financial improvement
measures does not exist at appraisal, a phased approach to improving financial performance
should be considered such that significant steps are deferred to subsequent and more
comprehensive sector projects. (e.g. the Energy Sector Reform and Power Development
Project).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENERGY PRE-
INVESTMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1973-KE)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    STATEMENT /EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Project Objectives
1.    The project objectives were: (a) to assist Kenya in preparing an expansion of its
generating capacity at least-cost through utilization of indigenous energy resources; (b) to
develop options for energy pricing policies that would encourage more efficient use of fuels and
achieve savings and resource mobilization; and (c) to address selected aspects of rural
electrification policy and household fuel supply and distribution. The generating capacity
expansion included the mobilization for a major geothermal development program that was to be
implemented over the subsequent 20 years and svstematic and comprehensive evaluation of
about a dozen potential hydro sites.
Evaluation of Objectives
2.    Oil remains the major source of primary energy and substantial amounts of foreign
exchange are used to pay for crude oil imports. To reduce dependence on crude oil imports, the
Government has continued to search for and develop domestic energy resources. The project
objectives were intended to support GoK efforts to timely implement a least-cost expansion of
capacity in the power subsector based primarily on geothermal resources and to create an
efficient sector through appropriate pricing policies. The dominant role of indigenous resources-
-particularly geothermal resources---in the power expansion plan had been indicated by the
National Power Development Plan completed under Credit 1486-KE.
3.    To support the preparation of a least-cost investment program, the project, included: (i)
drilling of wells to determine whether geothermal resources are available for a 60 MW power
plant at Olkaria N.E; (ii) drilling of make-up wells to maintain the generation capacity of the
existing 45 MW Plant at the Eastern Production Field (EPF); and (iii) assessing the possibility of
Eburru field sustaining a 55 MW development, (v) assessing the commercial viability of the
West Olkaria and other parts of the Olkaria area. Further, to facilitate implementation of these
works, the project included financing of required infrastructure and equipment--a drilling rig,
construction of Moi South Lake Road, purchase ot feothermal scientific equipment-- and of



technical assistance and training for capacity building. To support preparation of the hydro
component of the investment program, the project included: (i) feasibility study of development
of the Sondu-Miriu basin and its hydro resources; and (ii) comparative reconnaissance,
optimization and feasibility work on several potential hvdro sites.
4.    With respect to efficiency improving measures, the project was to support studies aimed
at assisting with determination of policy options for the pricing energy products; addressing LPG
supply shortages; and developing a rural electrification policy. The studies were expected to
provide a basis for discussion of sector reform questions within the GoK and between the GoK
and funding agencies.
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
5.    The project objectives have been substantially achieved. The objective of supporting
preparation of a least-cost power subsector investment program was achieved with the:
(i)   successful drilling of 33 wells which: (a) confirmed the sustainability of a 64MW power
plant at Olkaria N.E and the adequacy of resources to sustain a 20MW capacity at the
Eburru prospect compared to the appraisal estimate of 55MW; (b) provided strong
evidence of the commercial viability of the South West Olkaria Field; and (c)
supplemented the resource forthe EPF;
(ii)   carrying out a feasibility study, designing and preparing tender documents for a 2x32
MW power plant at Olkaria North-East--financing for the plant has been secured and
implementation of the project is about to commence;
(iii)  procurement of geothermal scientific equipment and drilling supplies for use in the
drilling of the wells;
(iv)   successful construction of the Moi South Lake Road which has helped to facilitate
communication with the Olkaria fields; and
(v)   completion of a feasibility study for development of the Miriu-Sondu basin; and
preparation of design and tender documents for a 60MW power station.
6.    Procurement of a drilling rig was deferred because the amount allocated under the credit
was not adequate to finance purchase of the rig, and it was realized that operation of two rigs was
not required since the efficiency of KPC's drilling operation had increased from 1 8m to 60m per
day. The decision not to acquire a second rig did not affect implementation of the drilling
program and therefore there was no adverse impact on the achievement of the component's
objective. Also although the pre-feasibility work on various potential hydro sites was not done,
there was no significant adverse effect on project objectives, since these were replaced with
studies of individual sites at Grandfalls and Ewaso Ngiro.
7.    The objective of improving sector efficiency through appropriate pricing policies and
other measures were substantially achieved, although the funding for the supporting studies was
provided through a project preparation facility for the proposed Energy Sector Reform and Power



-3 -
Development Project. The studies were not carried out under the project since the funding
which had been expected at appraisal from other financiers did not materialize. This was
apparently because at the time of approval for the IDA credit the commitments by the other
financiers were not firm. The energy pricing studies on electricity tariffs and on petroleum
pricing and marketing were completed in 1993. On the basis of the studies findings, electricity
prices have been adjusted from 30% of long-run marginal cost in 1993 to about 72% as of today
and the importation, pricing and marketing of petroleunm products was deregulated in 1994. The
LPG study was done in 1995 with funding from the Kenya Pipeline Company Limited and the
tendering process for the identified investment (LPG import facilities at Mombasa) is in
progress. The rural electrification cost minimizing study is still in progress and is being funded
by the AfDB. The adjustment of electricity tariffs enabled the sector to start improving its
financial performance, especially in FYI 994/95, the FY in which the first tariff increase was in
effect for a full year.
C.    IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOiR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION
8.    During project implementation several changes wxere made in the scope of the project, an
overall cost increase of about 19% and a number of changes in the financing plan occurred, and a
number of problems arose with regard to project management, procurement, payments to
contractors and suppliers and compliance with financial covenants.
9.    Changes in Project Scope. The following changes were made: (i) four make up wells
were connected with IDA funding; (ii) purchase of a drilling rig was deferred since the efficiency
of KPC's drilling operations had increased and an additional rig was not necessary at the time;
(iii) construction of drill crew housing, repair shops and workrooms and acquisition of related
tools and equipment were deferred as low priority to allow use of IDA funding on high priority
connection of make-up wells for Olkaria I Power Plant: (iv) comparative reconnaissance, pre-
feasibility and optimization studies on several potential lhydropower sites, including benefits of
irrigation and flood control were replaced with studies of individual sites funded by other donors
outside the scope of this project; (v) the energy pricing studies and the LPG demand and supply
study were deferred and implemented with separate funding ( para. 11); and (vi) a number of
consultants services/studies were introduced to respond to new assessment of priorities (e.g.
management information systems) or to resolve differences of opinion between the Bank staff
and KPC (e.g. Board consultants to review Sondu Miriu Hydropower Project).
10.   The changes in the IDA-financed components were made in consultation with IDA which
showed flexibility in re-allocating funds in response to changing priorities. However, it appears
that IDA did not always follow-up on the outcomes of studies and other activities it initiated (
e.g. Geothermal Board of Consultants, Board of Consultants Review for Sondu Miriu
Hydropower Project). Nevertheless, KPC confirms that overall it benefited from these
studies/activities. One possible negative impact of the changes was the deferment of the energy
Although the Borrower's comment is that the relevant project should be Ewaso Ngiro, there was also a Board of
consultants that reviewed Sondu Miriu Hydropower Project. This fact has been confirmed in a separate
communication from KPC.



-4-
pricing studies which in turn delayed the implementation of the deregulation of the petroleum
subsector and the adjustment of electricity tariffs. Timely implementation of the studies could
perhaps have enabled the Government and the Bank to reach agreement on policy issues earlier,
thus expediting implementation of the power subsector's least cost investment program. The
current power shortages could perhaps have been avoided or lessened.
11.   Project Costs and Financing Arrangements. Total project costs amounted to
US$70.95 million compared to the appraisal estimate of US$59.58 million representing a cost
overrun of about 19.1%. The cost overruns were attributable to the change in scope of the
geothermal development component to include the connection of make-up wells for Olkaria I
power plant and the treatment of salaries and the extensive training program for geothernal field
staff as project costs, which was not done at appraisal. Three out of the five cofinanciers
identified at the beginning of the project did not provide funding. These were KfW for the study
of potential hydro sites, FINNIDA for rural electrification and CIDA for the LPG study (para. 7).
The rural electrification study was later financed by the AfDB.
12.   Project Management and Procurement Record. Project management weaknesses
were identified at the mid-term review. These related particularly to monitoring of
implementation activities, and to the preparation of progress reports. The subsequent
introduction of action plans to track implementation activities and the training provided through
seminars/short courses and the appointment of a Geothermal Development Coordinator helped to
substantially overcome these weaknesses. By the end of the project KPC was preparing high
quality project implementation progress reports. There was an unusually high degree of
procurement problems at mid term-review. Bank records attribute the problems to KPC non-
observance of IDA guidelines on procurement procedures, whereas KPC is of the view that the
Bank had inconsistent positions on procurement issues. It is partly because of these difficulties
that KPC's contribution to financing of the project increased substantially as it had to fund
contracts which the Bank could not finance. However, by the end of the project, procurement
had become satisfactory.
13.   Payments to Contractors, Suppliers and Consultants. Serious delays were
experienced in processing payments to contractors, suppliers and consultants due to the GoK's
cumbersome procedures. The procedures required payment applications from KPC to be
authorized at three stages outside of KPC (MoE, MoF and CBK). It appears that the bulk of the
delays occurred at the parent Ministry level. This resulted in increased costs as KPC ended up
paying substantial interest charges.
14.   Financial Performance. Under the project, the GoK and the Bank agreed that the power
industry's financial performance was to be measured on the basis of its contribution to financing
the subsectors investment program (self financing ratios): debt service, current and debt/equity
ratios. The agreed targets were: (i) self financing ratios (SFR) of 25% in FY88/89, 27% in
FY90/91 and 30% in FY93/94 and subsequent years; (ii) debt service coverage ratios of at least
1.5, if lower the industry would not incur new debt without prior consultations with IDA; (iii)
debt/equity ratios of 75% in FY1991, 70% in FY1991 and subsequent years; and (iv) current
ratios of not less than 1.1. The table below summarizes the actual ratios achieved by the industry
for the four performance indicators.



-5 -
Financial Ratio            1988/89  1990/91  1992/93  1993/94
self-financing (%)           60       (15)      34        25
debt-service                  2        1.5      1.2       2.1
debt/debt+capital (%)         10       79       119       94
current                      0.9       0.9      0.9       0.9
15.   The ratios indicate that the power industry was not able to achieve the four targets in most
of the project implementation years, particularly the period up to FYI 993/94. This was due
primarily to non-adjustment of electricity tariffs, high levels of debt service, the impact of the
depreciation of the Kenyan shilling on debt service and operational inefficiencies. However, the
industry's financial performance started to improve gradually from FY1994/95 onwards,
primarily because of the implementation of a program of tariff adjustments. In March 1994, the
GOK raised the average tariff by 60% which increased the tariff from about 30% of long-run
marginal cost (LRMC) to about 55%. A subsequent increase in October 1996 has raised the
tariff to about 72% of the LRMC.
16.   It should be noted that monitoring the overall performance of the industry was difficult
due to the complex pricing arrangements, unclear asset ownership arrangements and unresolved
policy issues regarding inter-company indebtedness for bulk electricity sales to KPLC by the
Tana River Development Authority (TARDA) and the Kerio Valley Development Authority
(KVDA) from their Masinga, Kiambere and Turkwell power plants. Restructuring of the power
subsector to address these issues has started--KPC and TRDC have been merged and top
management has been appointed for the new power generation company. Assets and liabilities
and personnel will soon be allocated to KPLC and KPC which are now responsible for
management of T&D assets and generation assets respectively.
17    Despite the structural weaknesses noted above and the non-compliance with financial
covenants, the industry has sound accounting systems and procedures and KPLC has competent
financial management and staff. Thus, financial statements were prepared broadly in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles. Nevertheless, in most years the audited financial
statements were submitted after the due date. Both KPLC and KPC have now been exempted
from the provisions of the State Corporations Act, thus enabling them to engage private sector
auditors.
Factors Influencing the Implementation Record
18.   External Factors. The main factors which impacted negatively on project
implementation were:(i) the exchange rate which changed from 16.8 Ksh/US$ 1 at the start of the
project in 1987 to 80 Ksh/US$ I in 1993 and down to 56 Ksh/US$ I at the end of the project and
higher inflation rates--thus contributing to the industry's weak financial performance; (ii) the
delays in passing of Payment Applications through MoE. MoF and CBK towards the close of the
project; (iii) GoK failure to use Letters of Credit caused delays in effecting payments to suppliers
and contractors; (iv) the delay in effecting tariff adjustments which was primarily responsible for
the industry's non-compliance with financial covenants; and (viii) provisions of State
Corporations Act that required KPLC/KPC/TRDC to be audited by Auditor-General
(Corporations) delayed the submission of the audits in time.



- 6 -
19.   Internal Factors. The following actions undertaken by KPC positively affected project
implementation: (i) the establishment of the position of the Geothermal Development
Coordinator and support group comprising of procurement and project monitoring units assisted
greatly in implementation progress of the project, and (ii) similarly the establishment of an
environmental unit in KPC facilitated the carrying out of environmental studies, the
identification and monitoring of measures to mitigate adverse impacts of projects; and (iii) the
training of staff through technical assistance contributed immensely to building geothermal
exploration and drilling capacity in KPC. Initially project management and procurement
weaknesses adversely affected project implementation. but there was adequate improvement by
project completion.
D.    SUSTAINABILIT' OF PROJECT
20.   Sustainability of the project is likely. The reasons for this assessment are:
(i)   the substantial institutional capacity that KPC has built in geothermal resource
exploration, production drilling and operation and maintenance of geothermal resources;
(ii)   KPC has prepared an adequate operation plan for the geothermal wells connected under
the project and has developed a program for connlection of remaining wells as well as for
drilling of further wells to enable operation of the existing Olkaria I Power Plant at its
rated output up to your year 2000;
(iii)  substantial progress has been made in meeting the sector objectives aimed at creating a
more efficient sector through appropriate pricing and other measures. The energy pricing
studies, originally intended for financing under this project, but later deferred, have been
completed and some of the recommendations have been implemented (para. 7). In
addition, the introduction of private sector participation in power generation,--two plants
being constructed under BOO arrangements and others in the planning process--is
expected to lead to improvements in sector efficiency. Measures to restructure the power
subsector to enable it to operate on a commercial basis and to introduce an autonomous
regulatory authority in the subsector are at an advanced stage of implementation. This
progress, achieved in the course of preparation of the Energy Sector Reform and Power
Development Project can be attributed, in part. to the withholding of funding to the sector
by donors, until satisfactory measures had been taken by the GoK.
21.   The sustainability of the project would be at risk if the Government's commitments to
sector reforms, particularly private sector participation and sector restructuring (including legal
reforms) were not maintained.
E.    BANK PERFORNIANCE
22.   The Bank's performance in identification, preparation and appraisal was generally
satisfactory, particularly putting in place a well defined project implementation structure and
project staffing, although the Bank could also have insisted on clear upfront measures for
improving the financial performance of the power inidustry. Overall, during implementation of
the project the Bank's performance is considered satisfactory. The mid-term review was



- 7 -
successful in putting project implementation back on track by clearly identifying problems and
proposing corrective measures during the critical staae of the project. Particularly useful was the
introduction of an action plan agreed between KPC and the Bank to track implementation of
important items. The Bank was also flexible in agreeing to reallocate funds among credit
categories to take account of emerging needs and priorities. However, there were several
differences of opinion on procurement maters between the Bank and KPC with the result that a
number of items originally intended for Bank financing had to be funded by KPC.
F.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
23.   The implementation agency's performance was satisfactory in project preparation and
implementation. However, there were some start-up delays particularly in procurement and
deployment of staff to project positions. Later on, there was a remarkable change in
implementation when all project staff positions were filled, four engineers were trained in project
monitoring and others were trained in project management and procurement. KPC's Geothermal
Board of Consultants also provided a seminar on project management. KPC produced high
quality quarterly progress reports which facilitated its o\\ n and the Bank's monitoring of project
implementation performance. There were also delays in processing and making payments
particularly at the parent Ministry's level through MoF and CBK and also due to GoK non-
acceptance of letters of credit as a method of payment to suppliers and contractors. There were
significant delays in submission of audited reports. This was attributable to the provision in the
State Corporations Act that required KPLC/KPC to be audited by Auditor-General
(Corporations).
G.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
24.   The project objectives have been satisfactorily met (paras. 5-7). The Borrower has
prepared adequate operational plans for the physical components of the project; i.e. the Moi
South Lake Road and the make-up wells for the EPF (paras. 25-28). Subprojects prepared under
this project will be implemented under the Energy Sector Reform and Power Development and
Sondu Miriu Hydropower projects. These are: the 64 MW Olkaria North-East Geothermal
Power Plant to be constructed and operated KPC; the 64 MW Olkaria South-West Power Plant to
be constructed and operated by an independent power producers. The project was rated
satisfactory throughout its implementation and this Implementation Completion Report confirms
that the project outcome is satisfactory.
H.   FUTURE OPERATION
25.   KPC has prepared future operation plans for the plhysical components of the project; i.e.
the make-up wells for the existing Olkaria I Power Plant and for the Moi South Lake Road. An
operation plan has not been prepared for wells drilled in the Olkaria North-East and Eburru areas
as these wells will be operated under future power plants still to be constructed. For the Moi
South Lake Road the operation plan includes regular maintenance at stated intervals which are
consistent with maintenance practices for bituminous roads. These are shown in Statistical Table
6.



- 8 -
26.   The plan has been prepared in consultation with MIoPWH which is responsible for
maintenance of the road including funding as agreed at project appraisal.
27.   The operation and maintenance plan for make-up wells include monitoring of make-up
wells and regular servicing of wellhead equipment. The plan is shown in Statistical Table 6.
28.   KPC staff who are experienced in operating other existing wells feeding the Olkaria I
Power Plant will operate and maintain the wells. The fuLnding will be provided from KPC's
operating budget.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
29.   A number of lessons were derived from implemenitation of this project. These are
summarized below.
30.   Capacity Building has occurred under this project to the extent that the Kenya Power
Company is now able to undertake geothermal explorationi, drilling and scientific studies with
minimum levels of technical assistance. Under the project. PetroCanada International Assistance
Corporation, with financing from CIDA, provided training in drilling operations. IDA resources
funded instruments, consumables and spare parts to support the drilling activities, and scientific
conferences, short-term courses and a Geothermal Board of Consultants (GBC) to upgrade
technical skills. The GBC was made up of internationally renown experts in the field: it met
periodically to review the results of KPC activities. Training in drilling operations was provided
through experts who initially held line management positions. After the performance of
KPC/KPLC had improved to a reasonable degree, the role of the experts changed to advisory.
The successful capacity building has been widely recognized by donors and international experts
in the field. The principal reasons for the success are:
(i)   senior management of KPC/KPLC gave high priority to developing an indigenous
resource and rewarded high performance;
(ii)  the conditions of service for KPC/KPLC staff comparable with most jobs in the private
sector enabled KPC/KPLC to retain highly skilled and dedicated professional staff;
(iii)  the prospect of line management positions as expatriate staff switched to advisory
functions provided a competitive environment for high performance;
(iv)   short-term technical assistance was provided through IDA financing on a flexible basis
to deal with specific issues as they arose; and
(v)   the interaction between KPC/KPLC and the experts provided through the GBC which
combined both academicians and practitioners.
KPC/KPLC's experience demonstrates that it is possible to design successful capacity building
programs provided certain pre-conditions are met (as enuLmlerated above).



9-
31.   Identifying the right mix of skills required for project implementation and ensuring that
the staff are in place prior to project implementation (e.g. the position of geothermal coordinator)
with clear roles and responsibilities (para. 12) is essential for successful project execution.
32.   A comprehensive mid-term review can be instrumental in identifying problems and
taking corrective actions at a critical stage in project implementation. This was particularly the
case with this project (para. 12).
33.   Financial covenants need to be properly designed at the beginning taking into account the
existing structural constraints in the sector. The Borrower's commitment to the financial goals
should be also demonstrated prior to commencement of project implementation. Thus although
the agreed covenants required the power industry to achieve 30% self-financing levels, the
investment financing arrangements were not fully considered and the mechanisms for ensuring
tariff adjustments were not agreed upfront with the Government. As a result financial objectives
remained elusive till towards the end of the project wlhen the GoK agreed to adjust tariffs
following completion of a tariff study (para. 15). Alternatively, where the analytical basis for
designing financial improvement measures does not exist at appraisal, a phased approach to
improving financial performance should be considered such that significant steps are deferred to
subsequent and more comprehensive sector projects. (e.g. the Energy Sector Reform and Power
Development Project).
34.   To efficiently implement a geothermal explorational and resource development program,
it is important to have responsive procurement arrangements for spare parts and supplies--such as
procurement agents located close to supply sources.
35.   Efficient payment procedures are required at the Ministry level to avoid the incurrence of
high interest charges by the implementing agencies.



- 10-
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.      Achievement of Project Objectives
Objective Category          Substantial         Partial         Negligible      Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                                                                     x
Sector Policies                                         x
Financial objectives                                                     x
Institutional development             x
Physical                              x
Poverty Reduction                                                                          x
Gender Concerns                                                                            x
Other social objectives                                                                     x
Environmental objectives                                                                   x
Public sector management                                                                   x
private sector development                                                                 x
B.      Project Sustainability
Likely                            | Unlikely                      |Uncertain
x
C.      Bank Performance
Activity                     Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory             Deficient
Identification                                                  x
Preparation Assistance                                          x
Appraisal                                                       x
Supervision                                                     x
D.     Borrower Performance
Highly Satisfactory     Sa_t_is_factory         Deficient
Preparation                                          x
Implementation                                       x
Covenant Compliance                                                           x
Operation ( if applicable)                           x
E.     Assessment of Outcome
Highly Satisfactory         | Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory    | Highly Unsatisfactory
x



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                     Purpose                  Year of Approval            Status
Preceding Operations
1. Ln. 641-KE                   Plantations and roads                       1969         N/A
First Forestry Plantation
2. Ln. 745-KE                   Dam, power plant and transmisnion           1971         N/A
Kamburu Hvdro Power           lines
3. Ln. 1133-KE                  Construction of pipeline. storage           1975         PPAR completed in 1981
Nairobi-Mombasa Oil          facilities, buildings and staff traLining
Products Pipeline
4. Ln. 1147-KE                  Dam, power plant, transmission lines        1975         PPAR completed in 1981
Gitaru Hydroelectric         and management review and tari-tI
study
5. Ln. 1132-KE/Cr. 0565-KE      Pine plantations, roads, technical         1975          PPAR completed in 1982
Second Forestry Plantation   assistance and EIA
6. Ln. S012-KE                  Consulting engineering, training and        1978           PCR completed in 1990
Olkaria Geothermal           studies
Engineering
7. Ln. 1799-KE                  Drilling, generating station.               1980         PCR completed in 1990
Olkaria Geothermal           transmission lines and technical
assistance
8. Ln. 2065-KE                  Data collection, promotion rounds.          1982         PCR completed in 1991
Petroleum Exploration        drafting of legislation, TA and training
Promotion
9. Ln. 2098-KE                  Plantations, roads and TA                   1982         PCR completed in 1991
Third Forestrv
10. Ln. 2237-KE                 Expansion to First Olkaria Project          1983         PCR completed in 1990
Power IV, Third Olkaria
11. Ln. 2359-KE                 Dam, power plant, transmission lines        1984         PCR completed in 1993
Power V (Kiambere)           and TA
12. Cr. 1486-KE                 Exploration drilling and TA                 1984         PCR completed in 1992
Geothermal Exploration
13. Cr. 1675-KE                 TA and Exploration Promotion               1986          ICR completed in 1996
Petroleum Exploration
Following Operations
1. Cr. 2198-KE                  Tree farming, forest conservation.          1990         Under supervision
Forestry Development         institution building, studies
2. Energy Sector Reform and     Includes component for Petroleuin           1996         To be presented to the
Power Development            Exploration Promotion                                    Board in June 1996



- 12 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle              Date planned                Date Actual/latest estimate
Identification                                                  October, 1987
Preparation                                                     December, 1987
Appraisal                                                       May, 1988
Negotiations                                                    September. 1988
Letter of development policy                                    Not applicable
Board presentation                                              December, 1988
Signing                                                         February, 1989
Effectiveness                   March, 1989                     November, 1989
First tranche release                                           Not applicable
Midterm review                                                  November, 1991
Second tranche release                                          Not applicable
Project completion
Credit closing                  June, 1994                      April, 1996
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY90    FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95                FY96
Appraisal estimate                   7.3      19.3    32.2    37.6    40.7
Actual Disbursement                  8.5      23.6    27.5    31.1    35.1    39.9           41.4
Actual as % of estimate              116       122     85       83       86       98         102
Date of Final Disbursement - October 4, 1996
Table 5A: Key Physical Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators             Estimated                      Actual
I. Construction of Moi South Lake Road            24 Km          24 Km constructed
2. Develop energy pricing policies          Several energy pricing  Electricity Tariff Study done
policies
3. Drill 32 wells                                 32 weells      33 wells drilled
4. Carry out an Environmental Impact Study         2 sites       N.E. Olkaria and Kipevu completed
Update completed
5. Update National Power Development Plan
Study completed
6. Feasibility study for N.E. Olkaria
Update study completed
7. Update of 2 x 32 MW Geothermal Plant
Feasibility Study
8. Carry out Hydro sites pre-feasibility          SC cral        Individual feasibility studies carried out
studies                                                       for Sondu Miriu and Ewaso Ngiro



- 13 -
Table SB: Key Financial Indicators for Project Implementation
FY88     FY89       FY90      FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94
Units Sold (Gwh)               2337      2412                2 708     2719      2859      2997
Average revenue (Ksh.kWh)      1.04      1.09      1. I      1 1.41    1.68       1.75     3.10
Sales Revenue                  3256      3564      3841      5602      6596      7838      13039
Operating Expenses             2601      2829      3024      4450      5183      5830      11207
Operating Income               225       538        11)      505       270       3142      2534
Financial Charges              629       427       948       829       1342      4097       546
Net Income                     (404)      IIl     (838)    (324)    (1072)    (955)        1988
Financial Ratios
Debt/Debt & Equity (%')         77        10        77        79        86        119       94
Debt Service Coverage (times)   1.9       2.0       1.8       1.5       2.0       1.2       2.1
Current                        0.97      0.86      0.81      0.92      0.91      0.87      0.89
Self Financing (%)              46        60         4       (15)       37        34        25
Table 6A: Key Indicators for Operation of Moi South Lake Road
Activity                         Frequency                              Budget (US$ 000)
patching of potholes             every 2 years                                  34.0
vegetation clearing              quarterly                                       2.5
erosion control                  annually                                        3.0
road furniture                   as necessary                                    3.5
shoulders and structures         as necessary                                   10.0
resealing                        every 10 years                               1000.0
Table 6B: Key Indicators for Operation of Olkaria I Make-Up Wells
Activity                                                    Frequency          Budget (US$000)
geochemical analysis of water and steam quantity and        quarterly
quality
updating of reservoir engineering parameters                quarterly
Updating of well output characteristics                     monthly
changing of master valves                                    I every 1Oyrs.           100
cutting of grass along pipelines                            4 times p.a.
servicing of pipeline valves                                2 times p a./well
cleaning of orifice plates at separators                    I times p.m.
The operation plan for four wells will cost about USS2,000 pet ear for the four wells connected under the project,
excluding the replacement of master valves.



- 14-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                    Purpose                 Status               Impact
1. Reservoir Modelling    Support field development   Complete           Confirmed resource
& management                                  over plant life
2. Engineering Report     To facilitate appraisal andc   Complete        Able to secure funding
2x30 MW                 secure funding for the
project
3. Miriu hydro optimization  To determine the       Complete             Confirmed economic
study                   availability of a 60 MW                       sustainability of a 60
Sondu Miriu Hydropower                        MW power plant
Project
4. Miriu engineering report  To facilitate appraisal andl   Complete     Managed to secure
secure funding for the                        funding
project
5. Hydro sites pre-feasibility  To determine Kenya's  Individual feasibility   Sondu Miriu HEP
studies                inventory of hydroelectric   study carried out for   secured funding
potential                Sondu Miriu and
Ewaso Ngiro
6. Energy pricing study   To define policy options for Tariff study complete  Tariff raised
pricing energy products
7. Rural electrification  Development of rural      Ongoing/ADB          Yet to be determined
study                  electrification policy    funding
8. LPG study              To alleviate shortages    done with Kenya      Delayed liberalization
Pipeline Co. funding   of petroleum sub-sector
9. Environmental Impact    To study possible effects of  Complete        Development possible
Study for Olkaria N.E. Plant  the development on the                     with minimal Env.
environment                                   Impacts
10. Power Regulation and    To update the National  Complete             Development of a least
optimization study     Power Development Plan                         cost program that is the
base for future projects
11. Kipevu Environmental    To study possible effects of  Complete       As in (9)
study                  the development on the
environment



- 15 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Item               Appraisal Estimate (USSMIi)             Actual (US$S)
Local    Foreign    IFotal      Local       Foreign      Total
Costs     Costs      Cost       Costs        Costs        Cost
Geothermal Development       11.81      25.45      7.'26      32.15       34.80        66.95
Hydroelectric Studies          1.05      4.95      6.00       0.50         3.30         3.80
Energy Studies                0.18       1.05      1.23                    0.20         0.20
Base Costs                   13.04      31.44      14.48      32.65       38.30        70.95
Physical Contingencies        1.30      3.14       4.45
Price Contingencies           3.32      7.34       I 0.66
TOTAL                         17.66     41.92     59.58       32.65       38.30        70.95
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source            Appraisal Estimate (USSM)                   Actual (US$M)
Local      Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign         Total
Costs      Costs        Cost       Costs       Costs          Cost
IDA                               40.70       40. 70      2.70        38.55         41.25
KFW                   0.33         1.63        1.96
ODA/JAPAN              1.18       5.87        7.05        0.50        3.30           3.80
FINNIDA               0.05        0.20        0.25
CIDA                   0.05       0.10        0.15
KPLC                  9.47                    9.47        25.90                     25.90
TOTAL                 11.08       48.51       59.58       33.65       41.85          70.95
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
For all projects, this table identifies the major costs and/or benefits that enter into the
calculation of a re-estimated net present value (or cconornic rate of return) or, where the net
present value (or economic rate of return) was not est I mated, of cost-effectiveness in achieving
project objectives.



- I 6 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
FY        -------------- Investment Costs (USS 000)   O& M    Energy Gen. (GWh)  ----------- Net Energy  -------Benefits ------------Benefits -------------
Drilling Prog Olkaria II Olkaria IlIl Total   |(USS 000) Olkaria II OLkaria ll Total  1GWh  at US$.091  at US$.143 (US$000)  USS 000)
1997/98        66.000  20.238           86,238                  I                                                    (86,238)  (86,238)
1998/99                79,441   20,347   99,788                 I                                                    (99,788)  (99,788)
1999/00                42,060   69.533  111,593              256          1  256         218      19,829    31,161   (91,764)  (80,432)
2000/01                10,925   44,016   54,941    3,053     468              468        399      36,345    57,114   (21,649)     (881)
2001102                         11,284   11.284    5,957     468       64    532         454      41,312    64,919    24,071    47,678
2002/03                                    -      5,957      468      468    936         799      72,667   114,191    66,710   108,234
2003/04                                    -      5,957      468      468    936         799      72,667   114,191    66,710   108,234
2004/05                 1,200             1.200    5,957     468      468    936         799      72,667   114,191    65,510   107,034
2005t06                 3,800    1,200    5,000    5,957     468      468    936         799      72,667   114,191    61,710   103,234
2006/07                      [             -      5,957      468      468    936         799      72,667   114,191    66,710   108,234
2007/08                         3,800    3,800    5,957      468      468    936         799      72,667   114,191    62,910   104,434
2008/09                                    -      5,957      468      468    936         799      72,667   114,191    66,710   108,234
2009/10                 1,200             1,200    5,957     468      468    936         799      72,667   114,191    65,510   107,034
2010/111                3,800    1,200    5,000    5,957     468      468    936         799      72.667   114,191    61,710   103,234
2011/12                         3,800    3,800    5,957      468      468    936         799      72,667   114,191    62,910   104,434
2012/13                                    -      5,957      468      468    936         799      72,667   114,191    66,710   108,234
2013/14                 1,200            1,200    5,957      468      468    936         799      72,667   114,191    65,510   107,034
2014/15                 3,800            3,800    5,957      468      468    936         799      72.667   114,191    62,910   104,434
2005/16                         1,200    1,200    5,957      468      468    936         799      72,667   114,191    65,510   107,034
2016/17                      I                    5,957      468      468    936         799      72,667   114,191 __ 66,710   108,234
2017/18                                           5,957      468      468    936         799      72,667   114,191 - 66,710   108,234
2018/19                                           5,957      468      468    936         799      72,667   114,191    66,710   108,234
2019/20                               I           5,957      468      468    936         799      72,667   114,191    66,710   108,234
2020/21                                           5,957      468      468    936         799      72,667   114,191    66,710   108,234
2021/22                                           5,957      468      468    936         799      72,667   114,191    66,710   108,234
2022/23                                           5,957      468      468    936         799      72,667   114,191  --66,710   108,234
2023/24    ,                                      5,957      468      468    936         799      72,667   114,191    66,710   108,234
2024/25                                           2,904               468    468         399      36,322    57,077    33,418    54,173
2025/26                                           2,904               468    468         399      36,322    57,077    33,418    54,173
Re-estimated Internal rate of Return  _   _     { _     _                                                         |     15%       23%



- 17 -
Table 9 Economic Costs and Benefits
Costs
I costs of drilling program which proved resources fro Olkaria II and Illi and other small-scale prospects
2 investment costs for Olkaria II and IlIl
3 projected future costs for additional wells
4 O&M costs for the two power plants and for the geothermal resource field
Benefits
1 electricity sales resulting 'orm energy genetation from the two power plants
2. electricity sales valued at existing average tariff of US$0 091/kWh or US$.143/kWh which represents consumer willingness to pay



- 18 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Text          Covenant    Status   Original    Revise(d         Description of Covenant        Comments
Ref.       Type                    Fulfill      Fulfill
Date         Date
Credit        3.01        2             c                                   Rorrox\er shall pass on to
KPC as equity contribution
| p to S'.$9.7 million
cq'm alent
3.04                      c                                   I(orro\cr shall carrN out the
tudics under the project
under terms of reference
,agrecd between the
Rorromer and the Bank
3 05        5             c                                  llorro%ker shall inform [DA
ot' anx non-IDA funded
drilling program
4.01(a)     I             c                                   ltorro%% er shall: (I) maintain
I in accordance with sound
|accounting practices, records
ald accounts reflecting all
c\pnclditures; (ii) ensure that
ull records of expenditure are
rctained until at least one
car atter IDA has received
audit report for the fiscal
\car; and (iii) enable IDA's
rcprcsentatives to examine
such records
4,01(b)     I             cp                                  iiorrowver shall: (1) have    Audits frequently submined
rccords and accounts          after due date primarily due
rcferred to in para. (a) of this  to delays in carrying out the
scction tor each fiscal year  audit by the Auditor General
wludited by independent
1uditors acceptable to IDA
ami ii furnish copies of
>uch audited accounts to
IDA not later than eight
nonths after the end of each
liscal year
4.02       2              cp                                 IDie borrower shall take all   GoK's unwillingness to
necessury steps in order to   adjust tariffs
cnable the power companies
to meet the requirements of
sections 6.02 through 6.06 of
tthe Joint Project Agreement
Project       2.06        2             c                                   KliLC shall establish and
tiILnta[n the position of
Coorrdinator for Geothermal
I)cvelopment with suitable
i qualitications and experience
2.07        5             c                                   IKPLC shall implement a
tianagerial staffing and
dc\ clopment plan for its
gcothermial section
latisflictorv to IDA
2.08        9             c                                 |KI'LC and KPC shall semi-
ainuallv review with IDA
lthcc othermal drilling
pi ogarn results and
I_criormance
6.01(a)    1              c                                   K11'Ct and KPLC shall
nItnuitain records and



- 19 -
Agreement   Text          Covenant    Status   Original    Revised         Description of Covenant       Comments
Ref.       Type                    Fulfill      Fulfill    !
Date        Date
Iceotintlls adequate to reflect
Il accordance with sound
accounting practices its
opcrations and financial
I  Condition
6.0 1(b)    I            cd                                 Kli'C and KPLC shall have      Audit reports were usually
in, rccords. accounts and     submitted after due date due
I nancial statements for each   to delays by Auditor General
ilcal !ear audited by         in completing the audits
inidependent auditors
acceptable to IDA: and (ii)
I tirnish to IDA not later than
cioiht months after the end of
cach fiscal certified copies of
iS tfinancial statements and
thc report of the independent
auditor
6.02(a)    2             cp                                 i lhe po\ er companies shall    GoK's unwillingness to
rprduce for FY89. FY91,       adjust tariffs
I I'94 and thereafter, funds
n-om internal sources
eclui% alent to 25%. 27% and
30% respectivelv. of the
aZ erage of the company's
capital expenditures for that
ca X _r and the following year
6.02(b)    2             nc                                i l ef'ore November 30 of each   Reviews carried out during
ear. KPLC shall review       missions
N hether the power
companies would meet the
rcquirements set forth in
6.02 (a) and shall fumish
_IDA a copy of such review
6.02(c)    5             nc                                 If anv such review shows       GoK's unwillingness to
that the power companies      adjust tariffs
x ould not meet the
requirements in (a) for the
next fiscal year, KPLC shall
tuke all necessary measures
to meet the requirements
6.03(a)    2             nc                                 KliLC shall take all           GoK's unwillingness to
nccessary steps to ensure that  adjust tariffs
the power companies shall
not incur any debt, unless
their net revenues for the
pr evious fiscal year shall be
at least 1.5 times debt service
reqxuirements for any
succeeding fiscal year
6.04(a)    2             ep                                  KIlLC shall take all          GoK's unwillingness to
nccessary steps to ensure that  adjust tariffs
the power companies
maintain a ratio of current
assets to current liabilities of
not less than 1:1
6.04(b)    2             nc                                  Before November 30 of each   Reviews carried out during
y ear, KPLC shall review      missions
whether the power
companies would meet the
I current ratio requirement,
and furnish IDA the results



- 20 -
Agreement   Text          Covenant    Status   Original    Revised         Description of Covenant       Comments
Ref.       Type                    Fulfill      Fulfill
Date        Date
of such review
6.04(c)    5             nc                                 If such review shows that the   GoK's unwillingness to
companies s%ould not meet    adjust tariffs
the requirements set forth in
6.04(a) KPLC shall promptly
take all necessary measures
including adjustment of
tariff levels and rates, in
order to meet the
requirements
6.05(a)    2             cp                                 The power companies shall    GoK's unwillingness to
maintain a ratio of debt to   adjust tariffs
equity of no greater than
75% in FY90 and 70% in
. ___________  _________                          __________  __________    FY91   and thereafter
6.06       9             nc                                 KPLC shall annually furnish   GoK's unwillingness to
to IDA a report on the        adjust tariffs
annual return earned by the
power companies on their
average revalued net fixed
II_ assets in operation
Covenant Class
I            =           Accounts/audits
2                        Financial pertormancc/rc\ enue generation
from beneficiaries
3                        Flow and utilization of ptoject funds
4             =          Counterpart funding
5                        Management aspects of tk project or
executing agency
6             =          Environmental covenanits
7                        Involuntary resettlement
8            =           Indigenous people
9             =          Monitoring, review, and reporting
10           =           Project implementation not covered by
categories 1-9
11=                      Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
resource allocation
12           =           Sectoral or cross-sectoral
policy/regulatorv/institutitonal action
13           =           Other
8.    Present Status:  C = covenant complied with; CD = complied with after delay; CP= complied with partially; NC = not complied with
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number/Title                                             | Description/Comment on Non-Compliance
Not Applicable



-21 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                  Revised                   Actual
Stage of Project Cycle     Weeks         USs         Weeks         US$        Weeks         US$
Through Appraisal            NA           NA          NA           NA              48.8         91.7
Appraisal-Board              NA           NA          NA           NA              20.2         75.2
Board-Effectiveness          NA           NA          NA           NA               6.0         15.4
Supervision                  NA          NA           NA           NA              75.9       210.5
Completion                    15         28.5          15           32              3.3          8.2
TOTAL                   I_184.2                                                               401.0
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions Stage of Project Cycle
Performance rating
Stage of Project   Month/  Number   Days   Specialized  Inplemen   Develop-    Types of
Cycle             year       of    in field  staffskills   -tation     ment       problems
.______________  persons           repr-esented    status    objectives
Through           11/84       2        7         NA          NA         NA           NA
Appraisal
9/85       2        6         NA          NA         NA           NA
10/87      5        9         NA          NA         NA           NA
5/88       5        17        NA          NA         NA          NA
Appraisal          NA        NA       NA         NA          NA         NA           NA
through Board
Approval to
Effectiveness
Supervision        7/89       1        7         PE          NA         NA           NA
11/89      1        7          PE          I           I          NA
6/91       1        11        NA          NA         NA          NA
11/91      1        21        NA          NA         NA           NA
_______________   8/92      3         12    PE'GE/Econ      NA         NA          NA
3/93       2        17      Econ/PE       NA         NA           NA
4/94       5        20    Econ/PE/GS                           Financial
/Econ/SFA                          performance
4/95       2        8       SFA/PS         S          S        Financial
I performance
Completion         5/96       1        4         SFA          S          S        Financial
I___________ ____   ______ _   __________ _   _________   __________ perform ance
Completion         3/97       4        16    FA/OO/PE/        S          S        Financial
RE     I_         I            performance
Note:  PE = Power Engineer; ES = Environniciitzl. Specialist; GE = Geothermal Expert;
Econ. = Economist; SFA = Senior FinnkialiI Analyst; SPS = Senior Procurement
Specialist; OO= Operations Officer: Rl - Reservoir Engineer; GE = Geothermal
Specialist.



Appendix A
Kenya
Geothermal and Energy Pre-Investment Project
Credit 1973-KE
Supervision Mlission (Nlav 18-22, 1996)
.n MDA mission compn'sing J. Mfaweni visited Nairobi during Mfay 13-22, 1996
to supervise the Geothermal and Energy Pre-Investment Project (Credit 1973-KE).
The principal objective of the mission was to discuss arrangements for preparation of
the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). Since the MDA Credit closed on April
30, 1996, the ICR should be submitted to the Bank's Board by October 31, 1996.
The mission discussed the contents of an ICR with KPLC staff and provided
them with a copy of the Bank's guidelines. The following schedule for preparation of
the ICR was agreed.
Action'                                      Responsibility    Date
Prepare and submit to IDA (i) operation plan for the    KPLC   August 1, 1996
project; and (ii) draft [CR. and (iii) statisucal tables 5,
6. 7, SA and 8B
Prepare and submit to KPLC draft [CR        IDA                August 31, 1996
Discussion of ICR drafts during ICR mission  IDA               September 7-1 i5,1996
I Finalize [CR Report                         IDA               October 13, 1996
Since the project comprises primarily: (i) drilling of exploration, developmental
and make-up wells; (ii) studies; and (iii) construction of the Moi South Road, an
operational plan is applicable only to those physical components which require
maintenance/monitoring; viz, the make-up wells connected under the project and the
Moi South Road. To expedite the preparation and completion of ICR, it was agreed
that the Borrower's evaluation will be submitted to IDA prior to the ICR mission and
at the same time with the operational plan. IDA's evaluation will be submitted to the
Government prior to the ICR mission and during the mission the Government will have
an opportunity to revise its evaluation taking into account the Bank's evaluation.
Cofinanciers, AfDB for the National Rural Electrification Study, OECF for the
Engineering Study for Lower Miriu, JICA for the Organization Study for the Sondu
Basin and EM for the recently completed LPG study would be invited to participate in
the ICR mission.



-2-
The mission noted that a number of items which were part of the original
project scope were not carried out. .mnong these are (i) purchase of a dniling ng, (ii)
provision of housing for drilling crews, and (Gii) a studv of potential hvdro sites. The
potential hydro sites study was replaced with individual studies (e g tor Grand Falls
ard Ewaso Ngiro Hydropower P!ants) In sorne cases, items were introduced which
-.ere not in the original project scoce (e&connection of additional make-up wells)
Th-e ICR will need to assess to what extent these changes in the project scope affec-ed
achievern.ent of project objectives.
The mission also discussed the status of preparation and audit of financial
statements for KPLC and KPC The mission understands that, for FY1994/95, no
disbursements were made under the SoE disbursement procedure and, therefore, there
is no requirement for submission of an SoE audit report. Audited financial statements
for KPLC and KPC for FYI994,95 were due to be received in the Bank by February
23, 1996 Delavs have been encountered in the audit process and the mission
understands that submission of the outstanding reports is expected by June 30, 1996
EZ Wasunna                                             eni
Chief Projects Development Manager         ,/Task Manager
KPLC                                            World Bank
Distribution:
Mr. B Kipkulei, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance
Mr. C.N. Mutitu, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Energy
Mr. S. K.Gichuru, Managing Director, KPLC
Mr. J. Sasia, Operations Officer, World Bank Mission, Nairobi
Mr R. Anson, Chief, Operations Unit, World Bank Mission, Nairobi
Mr. S. O'Brien, Chief, World Bank Mission, Nairobi



Appendix B
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMtENT AN-D ENERGY PRE-INVESTMIEN'T PROJECT
Credit 1973-KE
REP'BLIC OF KENYA
Evaluatioo Summary
Introduction
The Bank Group has helped to finance six power projects (Loans 745-KE of 1971, 1147-KE of
i975, S-12-KE of 1978, 1799-KE of 1980, 2237-KE of 1983, and 2359-KE of 1983), and one
credit to help finance the Geothermal Exploration Project (Credit 1486-KE of 1984).
Three other loans were made for reafforestation (Loans 641-KE of 1969, 1132-KE/Credit 565-
KE of 1975 and 2098-KE/credit 1213) in the Energy Sector. In the petroleum sub-sector the
Bank financed the construction of the products pipeline from MIombasa to Nairobi (Loan 1133-
KE of 1975), and two petroleum exploration promotion projects (Loan 2065-KE of 1981 and
Credit 1675-KE of 1986).
Project Objectives
(a)   Summary Of Original Project Objectives
The project's principal objective was to assist Kenya in preparing the necessary expansion of its
electric generating capacity at least cost through utilization of indigenous energy resources. This
includes in particular the mobilization and institutional development for a major geothermal
development program to be implemented over the next 20 years. It also includes comparative
evaluation work on potential hydro sites. Another important objective was to develop options
for energy pricing policies which encourage more efficient use of fuels and achieve savings and
resource mobilization. The project was also to address selected aspects of rural electrification
policy and household fuel supply and distribution.
The project was to (i) carry out a drilling program of 32 geothermal production, exploration,
reinjection and make-up wells; (ii) provide associated equipment, infrastructure, engineering,
training and advisory services; (iii) reconnaissance work on promising hydro sites; (iv) define
selected aspects of rurl electrification policy and household fuel supply and distribution.
1



(b)   Special Credit CovenantsvAgreements
The following agreements were reached with the Government and KPLC/IKPC:-
(i)   the power sector should generate from internal sources not less than 25%7 in FY89, 27%
in FY91, and 30% in FY 94 and thereafter (after debt service and working capital
requirements) of its average annual investment prograrn for the year in question and the
following year.
(i)   the power sector should only incur new debt if a debt service coverage ratio of not less
than 1.5 could be maintained, maintain a current ratio of not less than 1. 1 and a
debtldebt plus equity ratio of not more than 75% in FY90 and 70%  in FY91 and
thereafter.
(iii)   KPLC would maintain the position of coordinator for Geothermal Development, endowed
with line authority for the full range of KPLC/KPC's geothermal activities, during the
project implementation period.
(iv)   KPC would inform IDA about the drilling program for each well based on approved
overall drilling program.
(v)    KPC and IDA would review drilling program, results, and performance semi-annually,
with resulting action plan(s), acceptable to IDA, to be prepared by KPC within one
month of such review.
(vi)   Govemment would afford IDA the opportunity to review and comment upon any non-
IDA funded geothermal drilling in Kenya.
(vii)  Government would carry out the energy studies, under TOR mutually agreed between
the Government and IDA.
(viii)  Government would pass on to KPC as equity contribution up to USS9.7 million
equivalent of the proposed IDA credit.
(ix)   Government would onlend to KPC the remaining bulk of the credit at 7.59% with a
maturity of 20 years, including seven years of grace, with the foreign exchange risk
borne by KPC.
(x)    KPC and KPLC would send to IDA not later than eight months after the end of the
financial year audited accounts; separate project accounts would be maintained; and the
auditor's opinion would include a separate statement covering credit amounts withdrawn
on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2



(c)    Evaluation of Project Obiectives
The principal objective was to assist Kenya in preparing the necessary expansion of its
generating capacity at least cost through utilization of indigenous energy resources including
geothermal and hydro.
Drilling of the wells was to determine whether 60 M'W of geothermal reserves are available at
the Olkaria N. E. provide additional acreage dedicated to the maintenance of the existing 45 MW
at the Eastern Production Field. assess the possibilicy that Ebur-U can sustain a future 55 MW
development and assess commercial viability of the West Olkaria and other portions ot the
Olkaria area.
Feasibility study of development of the Sondu-Ntiriu basin and its hydro resources; and
comparative reconnaissance, optimization and prefeasibility work on several potential hydro sites
were to be done with a view of improving Kenya's inventory of hydroelectric potential.
Other studies were to define policy, options for pricing energy products, curbing of LPG supply
shortages and minimization of rural electrification costs.
Procurement of the drilling rig, construction of the Moi South Lake Road, purchase of
geothermal scientific equipment, technical assistance and training were for the improvement of
the geothermal infrastructure and institutional strengthening.
Implementation Experience and Results
(a)    Project's Success and Sustainability
(i)    Drilling of wells in Olkaria N.E proved 78.1 MWe which reservoir modelling confirmed
can economically sustain a 2X32 MfW power plant while the drilled make-up wells will
maintain the generation for the 3X15 MW EPF plant at rated capacity up to the year
2000. The six wells drilled in Eburru confirmed that about 20 MWe can be generated
as opposed to the appraisal estimate of 55 MWe. Assessment of Olkaria West field will
be completed with the drilling of well OW-308 which is at 900 m.
(ii)   Procurement of a drilling rig rated for drilling to at least 2,800 m. was deferred due to
improved drilling rate using the present rig with technical assistance provided under Petro
Canada International Assistance Corporation. Drilling rate improved from 18 to 60
metres per day.
(iii)   Construction of Moi South Lake Road was successfully completed and greatly improved
communication with the Geothermal Project. Construction of drill crew housing, repair
shops and workrooms were deferred to the next operation and funds under these
categories reallocated for the connection of make-up wells for the existing 3X15 MSW
power station.  Purchase of tools and equipment will await construction of the
3



workshops.
(iv)   Geothermal scientific equipment and supplies were procured and used in explorauon and
evaluation of the geothermal resources.
(v)    Engineering study for the 2X30 MW power plant was completed and design and tender
documents are ready for a 2X32 NMW power plant.
(vi)   Feasibility study of development of the Sondu-Miriu basin and its hydro resources and
an engineering report for the Lower Miriu weir and power station were completed and
design and tender documents finalized for a 2X30 MW power plant.
(vii) Comparative reconnaissance, optimization and prefeasibility work on various potential
hydro sites, including benefits of irrigation and flood control was to be undertaken but
this was done on individual sites.
(viii)  Energy pricing study was completed and KPLC was able to raise electricity tariff to
retlect the philosophy of economic costs.
(ix)   LPG study was not done.
(x)    Rural electrification cost minimization study is in progress but it is financed by the
African Development Bank (ADB).
(b)    Summara of Actual Costs Compared to Estimates
See statistical tables 8A and 8B appended.
(c)    Factors that Affected Achievement of Major Objectives
Identification of new items with higher priorities resulted in deferring some of the
original project components. This was undertaken during the mid-term review.
Recommendation for engagement of consultants for several areas was undertaken but the
results thereof did not influence the project objectives substantially, despite the effort and
funds dedicated to them.
Performangce of the Bank and the Borrower.
The performance of both the Bank and the Borrower was satisfactory.
4



(e)    Assessment Of Project Outcome.
The project has a satisfactory outcome. Most of the project's major objectives were
achieved and it is expected that sausfactory development results will be realized.
Communications of the project was improved by the construction of the Mloi South Lake
Road. Connection of four make-up weils restored the power staton output to the rated
capacity (45 NfW). after falling to 31 MW.
Summary of FLndings, Future Operations, and Key Lessoas Learned.
(a)    Im2ortant Findings of the Project Im2lementation Experience.
Engagement of Board Of Consultants helped to reduce the use of individual consultants.
Training of staff through technical assistance helped in capacity building and ensured
sustained efficient drilling operations in an area where there are no other drilling
companies available for contracting.
Establishment of the position of the Co-ordin.ator for Geothermal Development and a
support group consistingof procurement and project monitoring units assisted greatly in
the implementation of the project.
Establishment of an environmental unit at the project helped in monitoring, carrying out
studies and identifying mitigating factors to counter negative effects associated with the
project.
(o)    Plans for Future Project Operations and Sustainability.
The Moi South Lake Road will be kept under regular maintenance. This will include
patching of pot holes, vegetation clearing, erosion control and re-carpeting.
The productivity of the make-up wells will be monitored and wellhead equipment
serviced regularly.
(c)    Lessons for Future Project in the Sector/Subsector
Stoppage of the overseas procurement agent affected the drilling operations greatly as it
was no longer possible to provide emergency supplies. It is necessary to have the
services of agent(s) for efficient project implementation. They should be located at the
major drilling industry centres such as Houston, Scotland and Singapore.
5



Thle Bank's "No Objection' had to be obtained for every expenditure resulting in delays
in implementation of the project. It is recommended that a threshold amount should be
set below which expenditure can be incurred without seeking Bank's approval. provided
the initial allocation is agreed upon.
There were senous delays in effecting payments to contractors, suppliers and consultznts
due to the bureaucratic disbursement procedures through the Government. This resuited
in increased costs as the implementing agency paid a penalty in form of interest charges.
It is strongly recommended that the implementing agency be authorzed to submit
withdrawal applications directly to the Bank for payment. Copies of these withdrawals
can be passed to other interested parties as the situation may demand.
The perspective in which the Task Managers (3 over the Credit period) viewed the
Project was different and this had a bearing on the decision making process.
6



20-JUN.'97(FRI) 17:54  WB OP UNIT                        FAX:254-2-260384
few   ERD                            P1C1 No.: 217593               wun.20 1.7 5:. s:
BORROWER'S CO.QENTS ON PART I           Appendix C
REPRJBUC 01F KNYA
MINISTRY or1 FINANCE
IU?I^iHIpIS;t AJdJrw.a, .1292J                             11W llt IIu tMJ&Y|
1V1NA18<. .N~R(IlWT '4AJH(U            PE5 bIl.0. JRox 30007!
ITW'pisttw: .tN I I                                               NAIROBI 
ReI. Nts. IA/VA 6013/1043                                    2Wh1 J tunlt, 1997'
euail ,d.t
Country Director 
Kenym nnd ljiboul i
World Batk Regional Office
)ear Sir
K1,NYdA* GLOTIHR.RMA1. DEVE-oPMnWN'r ADAN1   PIlE- 
14YMR      PR SOT ICR. 197.-
cam        1    _iN RIJIE RT-
31Pcas. refer to luer dated June 5, 1997 rrom Mr. Jool Mowuni on 44:
albove mubjact. 'I'ho louvernmnm <ot Knyu wushos to conunont a followoe:
IVinancial Prrfnrma,,ce                                                 j.
I;rom the roporl submittd to yourseivcs in Ilic pasm tlh tinllowing are cqur
computed rntios
RAX.10                       19S/89   190/91   1992/93   1993/94
SM-1*; X INANCIN   (%)    _60           (13)       34          S 
DUB'T -SERV1CTE              2          1 .5         2        2.1
DEBT/DEBT +                   I        80         119        94
RQtJITY( %)
CUJRRENT                      1          .         J          I



20-JUN.' 97(FRI) I154   WB OP UNIT                           FAX 254-2-260384
-rom   ERD                               PHOK N7. : 217593                  Jun.20 1997  5:36 
LCONOMIC LIFE oF (EOHE1RMt.%AL PLAN'T'S
On mnblu 9 ecomiomliG -osts and henefits. wu wislh to commcnt aS lhieetulow:
Tlao EQo,n,mnis analysis has baIstd thLe Lua: of rietuun ([IRR) un 1 5 \:ti:;.;
operating lite of thlu CGuothermal Plant, without eumnideraiotn uf anly uLsidual
value of the pll&ts. l lowever, if thie tet henaelits ot tlie project are extunded to
tli: (ull 2.5 youls of ucollsoliut  lifc o(f Giotlulzui-m   PhsILN, il uppvur-4 f1c( m  tlhu
atialysis of' table 9 tlhat thc prioject 11UR1 ior tlht; Triffl valuc,s  JSS() 091 a6d
IJS.$O 143 would he Ihighier at approximntely 15% 1Anid 23%$ ri'espectively.
lReferring, LOw uhl Mr 10 ll'g  e 16. Thu  > I',low,ls, Keys .4holulJ he  aprpli&.
Item  h6. M(b)             Status sliould he CU z'n) d Not C'l'
_ ltwui 6.02(a)            Slatus sl ould bub CP ;nd Not NC
Iteon 60'l(a)              .SaLC1s slhould b  (I' Pelnd Nut NC
Oil item  I 1, ille DOC did 14)t organisc: uLy m1ulnMiuntl o; ur*e; r..,. 0Ie
prujuli .%lUlt, uldlelug,I ar uLte week Ge1mllaillibuy tUtir    wdti cwlnducted I'UI Io C
techiciLal staff aL 1.th GCotlicrsill Prcwjveg.
l11ide tilt;  aLtutiuicad tx1l.;^s (Nu. 7), lItei 3, Column 2 bitlwuld ralfs to
Mil-iui llydiu Prejtut wlhile culuwtn 4 sIould read 60 MW  PlIanti.
lPage 12, lte8m  9 last line, aefers tu DOC  olo iviCw  Sondu Miliu. Thu
prrjsoec sliould I' Ewawo Ngiiro.
We agiee widI lilC uthicl iubc vmuutiz in uLs :cpurt. riFinaly, we thamith LI
Baink fcw havinig mnade available tuG pijcuuLue,ud  iruitn Ual Czdi IL 1i ulazillu  Uit:
)p-o jetCi
Yours Si|>arely,
CS.  SIskaba
~~~UE                            TV



20-JUN. 97(FRI) 17:55   WB OP UNIT                          FAX:2S4-2-260314
ro m   ERD                              PMF     .   217393                 Atm.2D 1997  5: Xhi
CV,   The Pefl-111,1111L Secre.tal'y
Ministry of Energy
Nyayo Housc
Kenya Power Company Linmitied
Sifill' Phza
-4~~~~~4



MAP SECTION






IBRD 28876
K E N Y A 
PLANNED FACILITIES                        EXISTING FACILITIES:
GEOTHERMAL  DEVELOPMENT                                 o        GEOTHERMAL POWER STATION                  OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL FIELD
DIESEL POWER STATIONS              *      HYDRO POWER STATIONS
AND  ENERGY  PRE-INVESTMENT                                        220 kV TRANSMISSION LINES         A       DIESEL POWER STATIONS
PROJ ECT                                        132 kV TRANSMISSION LINES          *      STEAM POWER STATION
POSSIBLE SITES OF HYDRO                     KPLC DISTRIBUTION AREAS
S U D A  N              -7         :                                POWER STATIONS                              220 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
DENSELY POPULATED AREAS                     132 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
/   - ---    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                  66 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
..                                                            ---   33 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
~4    4_^                         g   -/                       \         E T H  I O  P I A          7                                4'
Lake
Turkana
9         ~~~~Lod   '                          /)                           !i
\  Nk  RT H         i>EI Molo Camp                                                             /
IFT
V    LLEY E Y                                 oarsabit
UGANDA                       Turkwl                                  OMabl0  
CENTR L
P  *  1  RIFT                                 0 X   sOHabaswein       ,
Tor         ~           _.j/{"             V/41LR I                                         ''
Z     .      /      'vJ          (        1   si    MT''
Trr..._0/                                                  ,jM                                   .    
aiiiuruu    Nan uk          YA      /~        NAIROBI 
Gra    S                   Garissa
_       *.I         Na    .                         i nd aruma
V ^ ' >           i '  OLKARI*                  /5?         uru                          <                 -
K E       ' A               Kia
gong,                tKiui
l/   /X\\   ~~~~~akas\  \L/                               OHl                       '
SUDAN                                                                                    COA S T \ -
ETHPA    SOMALIA 
a   ^7  ,              \' <TsavSs    , S.,bt7A,                     j              }~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ND QJA N
~~~~A /A~~
KENYA Cj A-
i5w -, N.ir.6i{                                                                                       M  \
Us.UNDI  >yi  NDiAN                                                                                            "P*  WC " t
TANZANIA  k       OCEAN                                               \                    .an k.Oon> cf lh  1 0stok
Re'<  (                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~T A N Z A   Il A                       *-ytin                               s
;   m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o O.k I~                                                  #Th W&dd0an
OW sy.fJw Mermatio sh.owson Phs
{ ZAMBA                                                                                                   Wi s  _  ' Uld Bonk GC", any juant on t6
M^J   *i%Av/i b -s    </>  0    25   50   75   100  N <ob"s ftseytwhwy,orany
a ) jMAO; ; hIADAGAStU  36'  MILES                                                                       o .  sh
JUNE 1997









IMAGING
Report No.:         16830
Type:     ICR



