RESTRICTED
FIlE  COPY                                 Report No. p-479
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR THE
PORT OF PISCO PROJECT
April 20, 1966



REPORT AND RECOZMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAM TO THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR THE PORT OF PISCO PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an arnount in various currencies equivalent to $9.1 million to
the Republic of Peru for the construction of facilities at the new Port
of Pisco and for consulting services.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Government of Peru has requested the Bank to help finance
the cost of construction of the Port of Pisco and the preparation of
feasibility studies for other ports. The Port of Pisco would be the
third Peruvian port financed by the Bank.  The Bank made a loan in 1952
and another in 1958 for expansion and modernization of the port of
Callao, the largest Peruvian port, for a total of $9.1 million. In 1964
the Bank made a $3.1 million loan for the construction of new port
facilities at the Port of Paita in northern Peru.
3.        Negotiations took place in W,,Jashington from March 9 through 25.
The Government was represented by Mr. Mateo Kalafatovich, Director of
Administracion Portuaria (DAP), assisted by Dr. Maximilian Gamarra,
Director of Credito Publico amld Dr. Carlos Gibson, Financial Minister
in W4ashington.
4.        The proposed loan would increase total Bank lending to Peru
from $182.3 million to $191.4 million. The status of previous loans
as of March 31, 1966 is summarized below:
Year         Borrower                      ose20     Amount ($ million)
Original Undisbuursed
1952-55  Republic of Peru               Various        28.4      -
1960      Republic of Peru              Roads           5.5      1.5
1961      Republic of Peru              Roads          10.0      0.2
1964      Republic of Peru              Port            3.1      1.4
1965      Republic of Peru              Irrigation     11.0    11.0
1965      Republic of Peru              Roads          33.0    33.0
1954-60  Various Borrowers              Various        1.5       -
1958      Callao Port Authority         Port            6.6      1.8
1963      Lima Light                    Power          15.0      1.6
1963      Peruvian Corporation          Railways       13.2      2.6
1965      Banco Agropecuario            Agriculture    15e0      8.5
Total undisbursed                                    61.6
Total original amount                       182.3



-2-
Amount ($ million)
Original Undisbursed
Total undisbursed                                    61.6
Total original amount
(less cancellations)                       182.3
of which has been repaid                    32.7
Total now outstanding                        149.6
Amount sold:                       15.2
of which has been repaid          9.1        6.1
Total now held by Bank                       143.5
Total undisbursed                                    61.6
No IDA credits have been made to Peru.
5.        Disbursements on the existing loans on the whole are proceed-
ing on schedule. The San Lorenzo Project financed with Loan 418 PE of
June 18, 1965 had a slow start owing to the change of management; but a
substantial disbursement application has now been made. The situation
is being followed closely with frequent project supervision missions.
The Port of Callao Project financed with Loan 208 PE of September 17,
1958 has been delayed by organizational and physical difficulties. A
reorganization plan for the project was submitted to the Executive
Directors on Septenber 9, 1965 with a recommendation for a postponement
of the closing date. Work was rescheduled in mid-1965 and is now pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. The financial situation of the Peruvian Corpor-
ation (Loan 334 PE) continues to be unsatisfactory in spite of some
benefits from the Bank-financed rehabilitation program and an increase
in traffic.
6.        Several Bank loans are under consideration for Peru and two of
them are at the appraisal stage: (1) loan for a power distribution pro-
ject of $9-10 million and (2) loan for education of up to $6-8 million.
The loans are expected to be presented to the Executive Directors in the
next few months.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.        Borrower:                     Republic of Peru
Beneficiary:                  Direccion Administracion Portuaria
Amount:                      $9.1 million



-3 -
Purpose:                     To help finance:-
(a) the construction of new port
facilities at Pisco consisting of
a four berth marginal wharf and
related facilities:
(b) feasibility studies in con-
nection with the ocean port of
Chimbote and four river ports:
(c) improving port operations
and procedures, including carrying
out personnel training.
Term of Amortization:        25 years including five years
grace.  First and last repayments,
May 15, 1971 and May 15, 1991.
Interest Rate:               Six percent per annum.
Commitment Fee:               3/8 of 1 percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        An appraisal report of the Project is attached (TO 522a).
9.        The major portion of the loan would be used for the construc-
tion of new port facilities at Pisco in southern Peru. The new port
facilities would be on the Bay of Paracas directly across from the pres-
ent port and town of Pisco. A road under construction in the essentially
desert area, will provide access to the Port from the Panamerican Highway.
10.       The proposed loan would be made to the Peruvian Government but
responsibility for the construction and operation of the Port wrill be
vested in the Direccion de Administracion Portuaria (DAP), which is the
office of the Peruvian Finance Ministry in charge of all Peruvian public
ports except Callao and Salaverry.  The Peruvian Government intends to
reorganize the DAP into a National Port Authority and when this happens
responsibility for the Project would be transferred to the new entity.
11.       The new port facilities at Pisco are urgently needed and
economically well justified. The present port facilities permit only
lighterage operations and are entirely inadequate to handle the present
traffic and, even more so, the traffic which is expected to develop in
the future, especially fish meal and mineral ore exports. Substantial
benefits are expected as a result of a reduction of cargo handling and
bagging costs; elimination of physical losses during the overland haulage
to Callao; and a reduction of vessel turn-around time.
12.       The Port of Pisco is the main item of the Peruvian Ports
Development Program for 1965-1969. When this Program is completed, Peru
will be endowed with the major portion of a modern system of ocean and



- h -
river ports.  Feasibility studies for the new Port of Chimbote and four
ports at Iquitos, Yurimaguas, Pucallpa and M4aldonado on the Amazon River
system, would be financed out of the proposed loan. The Program would
be financed to the extent of 65 percent by earmarked revenues of the
DAP and the balance would be supplied by the Bank, Export-Import Bank or
other external lenders.
13.       The Peruvian Government has undertaken to establish a National
Port Authority with jurisdiction over all the public ports in Peru,
excluding Callao which is already organized as an autonomous entity, and
with wide management powers and financial autonomy. Agreement has also
been reached on the phasing out of the present system of special revenues
earmarked to finance port expansion, and, concurrently, their replacement
by a unified system of rates reasonably related to the cost of specific
port services. In particular, the Borrower has undertaken to establish
and maintain charges at the ports of Pisco and Paita which will assure
a reasonable return on the investment. The Borrower lhas agreed to hire
qualified operations consultants to install a modern commercial account-
ing system for the port administration, prepare the initial tariffs and
advise on matters related to the proposed reorganization of the port
administration.
14.       The cost of construction of the Port of Pisco will be about
$14.3 million, not including $0.4 million for the port feasibility studies,
but including allowrances for physical contingencies and price increases.
The proposed loan would represent slightly over 60 percent of the total
cost of $14.7 million and would cover the entire foreign exchange cost
of the project. The balance of $5.6 million will be supplied by the
Borrower. As an additional contribution to the Project the Peruvian
Government is providing an 18 Km access road and housing for the port
workers at an estimated cost of $2.8 million.
15.       The construction contract will be awarded and equipment will
be procured through international competitive bidding. The design and
bidding documents for the port construction have been prepared by the
DAP with the assistance of qualified consultants. The same consultants
are expected to supervise construction.
PART IV - LEGAL INS TRUMETS AND AUTHCITY
16.       The Draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Peru and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
17.       The Draft Loan Agreement follows the general pattern of loan
agreements for similar projects. The followfing provisions are of special
interest:



a. In Section 5.08, the Borrower undertakes to
establish and maintain adequate charges for services
at the ports of Paita and Pisco.
b.  In Section 5.10, the Borrower agrees to set up a
National Port Authority.
c.  Under Section 5.11, the Borrower will cause the
National Port Authority to have at all times ccm-
petent and experienced management.
PLRT V - THE ECONO01Y
18.       An economic report entitled "An Appraisal of the 1966-1967
Public Investment Program of Peru" (WH-155a) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on January 19, 1966.
19.       As described in this report inflationary pressures continued
during 1965 and coincided with a 30 percent rise in real investments
and a 26 percent increase in imports. The Peruvian authorities, recog-
nizing the need to bring about a better internal and external equili-
brium in the economy and to preserve a fully convertible currency, have
taken a number of measures to contain excessive increases in monetary
demand. In late 1965 the monetary authorities raised marginal reserve
requirements for the second time within half a year by requiring increases
in deposits over the November 30, 1965 level to be covered fully by
reserves. In February 1966 the uovernment decreed a reduction of 7.5 per-
cent of budget expenditures, as authorized by Congress. The financial
program of the Peruvian authorities for 1966, based mainly on these fiscal
and moneta±'y measures, would check the increase in dcmestic prices, and
go far to assure a satisfactory balance of payments.
20.       Continuing a long series of stand-by arrangements with the
IMF, Peru has entered a new arrangement for the period through March 30,
1967. In addition the Peruvian Government plans to obtain new foreign
credits on a substantial scale. With continued satisfactory financial
policies and Peru' s continued growth, the margin for such borrowing is
considerable. External public debt now amounts to about $578 million
and debt service requires about $70 million a year representing some
10 percent of current foreign exchange earnings.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE lNITH ARTICLES OF AGREEN2T
21.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 6 -
PERT VII - RECOI'ThDATION
22.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
.
Approval of Loan to Republic of Peru (Pisco Port Project)
in the Amount of the Equivalent of US-$9,1 million
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Republic of Peru
in an anount in various currencies equivalent to nine
million one hundred thousand United States dollars
(US$9,100,000), to mature on and prior to May 15, 1991,
to bear interest at the rate of 6 percent (6%) per
annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as
shall be substantiaUy in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Pisco
Port Project) between the Riepublic of Peru and the Bank,
which has been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
April 20, 1966



