FILE CO'PY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P?-1659-AL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(RURAL DEVELOPMENT)
June 13, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar (DA)
US $ 1        = DA   3.85
DA    1       * US $ 0.25
DA 1,000       a US $ 250.00
DA 1,000,000  - US $ 250,000
Fiscal Year      January 1 - December 31



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMh;NT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (RURAL DEVELOPMENT)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria for the equivalent of
US$8.0 million to help finance a technical assistance project for rural
development. The loan will have a term of 10 years, including 3 years of
grace, with interest at 8.5 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Economic Development and Prospects of
Algeria" (155-AL) was distributed to the Executive Directors on June 4, 1973.
An economic mission visited Algeria in April/May 1974 and returned in September
to complete a review of the country's second Four-Year Plan (1974-77). Its
report will be issued shortly. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        In 1966, Algeria's Revolutionary Council defined the fundamental
objectives which the country intended to pursue during the period ending
1980. These are: (i) to expand and organize the productive base enabling
the economy to reach, by about 1980, a stage of self-sustained growth with
full employment; (ii) to achieve economic independence, which implies that
the country would rely first on its own resources for development, although
international economic relations would be expanded and diversified; and (iii)
to improve income distribution, particularly among regions. These objectives,
and the strategy which has evolved towards their implementation, take into
account the country's physical and socio-economic potential, and form a set
of coherent choices to which the leadership is deeply committed.
4.        To attain the objectives defined in 1966, Algeria has adopted a
long-term strategy with four main aspects. The first is industrialization,
which is viewed as the principal means of achieving the long-term growth and
employment objectives, as the scope for expanding agriculture rapidly is
limited by physical and social constraints. Several essential functions are
assigned to industry in this perspective: to produce and process natural
resources, particularly the sizeable reserves of hydrocarbons (oil and gas),
for export to earn foreign exchange; to produce modern equipment for use in
all economic sectors; and to provide essential consumer goods required to
raise the living standards of the population. The second aspect consists of
structura,l institutional changes which are viewed as the means of keeping the
economy in Algerian hands and of imparting dynamism to investment and produc-
tion. The main structural reforms are the application of central planning
to the economy as a whole, the expansion of the role of public enterprises in
industry and services, the Agrarian Revolution involving land and livestock
redistribution to poor farmers and the introduction of cooperative management
in agriculture, decentralization in favor of local government, and the par*i-
cipation of workers in the management of state enterprises. The third aspect



is the acceleratIon of trairing and education to meet the skilled manpower
needs of the economy, i;,Drove e,mployment opportunities, and develop an authen-
tic Algerian culture. The fourth aspect is the adoption of austerity in con-
sumption so as to genera;e national savings for investment and avoid excessive
recourse to external scurces.
5.        In the seven years   $967-73 which constituted the first phase of im-
plementing the above strategy, structural reforms and investment were pushed
with vigcr. The Government acquired nearly complete control of economic ac-
tivitv through the systematic nationalization of foreign assets, including
1 S  f -     Pi . .-L r i. -  ..,. -- Lv- We c_reation aiid <.,.a,     of
public enterprises.   Total investment increased from 15 percent of GDP in
1966 to nearly 40 percent in 1973, public sector investment rising from 9 per-
cent to 36 percent with more than half going to industry. In agriculture,
farms left vacant by departing foreigners in 1962 (about 2 million hectares)
have been managed by their workers under central planning and control, and
since 1971 the private sector (about 5 million hectares of cultivated land
and 20 mi;2ion hectares of steppe pasture) has been progressively brought
under the provisions of the Agrarian Revolution. Education and training were
rapidly expanded and improved. The school population rose from 1.5 million
in 1966/67 to 2.9 million in 1973/74 while the education and training systems
were progressively modified to improve their efficiency, their relevance to
economic needs and their accessibility to the largest number of Algerian
children and workers.
6.        However, Algeria's strategy also yielded some less satisfactory
results. First, the reaL growth of output was below target (about 6 percent
per year as against a target of 9 percent) in the 1970-73 period, mainly be-
cause of delays in implementing many projects or in bringing their output to
design capacity, and due to poor agricultural performance. Second, the
sectoral imbalance in invcstrm nt caused bottlenecks in lagging sectorc such
as construction, transportation, communications and housing. Third-, while
unemployment in non-agricultural sectors declined from 27 percent in 1966 to
12 percent in 1973, the number of emigrated workers increased to about 440,000
in 1973 when emigration was officially stopped. In agriculture, production
performance, especially of state farms, has fallen short of expectations and
has been accompanied by an increase in underemployment: about 9 percent of
the agricultural labor force was officially considered to be "seriously under-
employed" in 1973 compared with 4 percent in 1966. Thus, in 1973, providing
jobs for unskilled labor continued to be a worrisome problem in Algeria,
while the shortage of skilled and experienced nationals was a primary res-
traint on investment and efficient management. Fourth, due to sharp differ-
ences in sectoral and regional development, disparities in income levels and
living standards have persisted; for instance in 1973, per capita consumption
was estimated at $130 on average in rural areas compared to $450 in urban
areas. The differences are smaller than in many other developing countries
due to the strong income and price controls and substantial free social
services; they are nonetheless keenly felt in the country.



- 3 -
7.        The large increase in oil Drices during the last quarter of 1973
boosted Algeria's receipts from 'ts main export product, crude oil.    Crude
oil output and exports declined in quantity by about 10 percent between 1973
and 1974, due to production difficulties in the last four months of 1974.
Thus export receipts from hydrocarbons rose from $1.4 billion in 1973 to an
estimated $4.3 billion in 1974. The additional $2.9 billion (8190 per capita)
which Algeria derived from hydrocarbons in 1974 greatly improved the balance
of payments. Despite a steep rise in the import bill due to sharp increases
in import requirements in volume (30 percent) and prices (35 percent), Algeria
has been able to repnay in advance a part of the commercial bank loans it ha.l
corntracted eariier, and to increase its foreign exchange reserves by about
S550 million during the year. There has been a corresponding improvement in
the domestic financial situation, particularly in the position of the Treasury
which captures most oil revenues, but due to import price rises and domestic
pressures, price inflation has accelerated to a rate probably exceeding 10
percent per year. The financial improvement has been accompanied by an ac-
celeration of GDP growth in 1974. The decline experienced in crude oil output
was more than offset by the sharply increased level of investment, new output
from industrial projects and the recovery of agricultural production from the
low level of 1973. Real GDP growth is estimated to have been around 7 per-
cent, and due to the gain in terms of trade and the oil price increase, gross
domestic income rose by 30 percent. With the liberalization of consumer
goods imports, private consumption increased by an estimated 17 percent.
8.        The improvement in Algeria's financial situation and prospects has
led the Revolutionary Council to accelerate the pace of development and struc-
tural reform during the second Four-Year Plan (1974-77). The plan estimates,
on the basis of implementation capacity likely to be available, that total
investment should reach at least DA 85 billion ($20.4 billion)in 1973 prices
during the 1974-77 period, and thus be about 2.3 times larger than during the
1970-73 plan. The plan also specifies a higher (maximum) investment target of
DA 110 billion ($26.4 billion), with supplementary projects to be undertaken
if implementation capacity can be raised above the estimated level. The share
of industry and hydrocarbons in total investment would decline to 44 percent
in 1974-77 from 54 percent in 1970-73, while the relative importance of other
sectors would increase. The share of agriculture would remain roughly con-
stant at 13 percent of total investment, with an average annual rate of growth
of agricultural production at 5 percent over the second plan period. Sizeable
allocations are made for regional development. Based on the expected outputs
from sectoral development programs, the plan's target for GDP growth is set
between a minimum (11.2 percent a year) and a maximum (12.5 percent a year),
which correspond to the two levels of investment. The projected growth of
investment and output would, according to the plan, create enough new jobs to
improve the employment situation substantially. The plan estimates that the
unemployment rate in non-agricultural sectors would decline to around 4 per-
cent in 1977, while there would be a marked reduction of underemployment in
agriculture.



-4-
9.        The plan also provides for an acceleration of consumption growth
and a reduction of regional disparities. It estimates that private consump-
tion should rise by 11.3 percent a year in 1974-77, compared to a growth rate
barely equal to that of population (3.3 percent) in 1970-73. On a per capita
basis, the growth rate of private consumption would be higher in rural areas
(9.6 percent a year) than in urban areas (5.5 percent a year) as a result of
increases in expenditures on rural development and social services.     While
the plan projects import requirements to rise at constant prices by 21 percent
a year in response to the rapidly rising demand for investment and consumption,
it expects AP-pc-,t receipts to be large enough to lea-ve a small zu-plu s on
goods and non-factor services for the 1974-77 period as a whole. Thus, the
plan does not anticipate any foreign exchange constraint, nor any difficulties
in domestic financing. However, it does foresee that the resource balance
would deteriorate after 1974 and turn into deficit by 1977.
10.       From the viewpoint of physical implementation capacity, the minimum
targets for investment, GDP growth and employment appear to be within reach,
and the new orientation of the development strategy in favor of lagging sectors
and regions, is highly desirable in view of the difficulties that have ap-
peared with past heavy emphasis on industry. However, the estimate of imple-
imentation capacity on which the plan's investment target are based implies
that short-cuts will continue to be taken in the preparation of many projects
with adverse consequences for implementing them and bringing them to planned
output. In part for this reason, but also because of the high proportion of
projects with long gestation periods in the investment program (e.g. hydro-
carbon production' petrochemicals, and heavy metal, mechanical and electrical
industries), the delay between investment and the accrual of benefits is
expected to lengthen temporarily. Indeed, the Incremental Capital Output
Ratio (ICOR) implied by the plan's minimum projections of investment and out-
put tends towards 5.0 by the end of the plan period compared to less than 4.0
on average in the 1967-73 period. Further, while the employment situation
will probably improve substantially between 1973 and 1977, the investment
cost per additional job is high. On the basis of Plan estimates in 1973
prices, it is about $38,000 in 1973 prices in the non-agricultural sectors,
and around $25,000 in agriculture (counting the reduction of agricultural
underemployment). At the same time, and in spite of the large planned effort
to accelerate further education and training, the supply of skilled nationals
will continue to be significantly short of projected needs at the high, and
especially at the middle, levels of qualification. The Government is taking
a number of measures to alleviate the problems created by this situation, in-
cluding the introduction of improved financial and other procedures to bring
about better operational results on the part of enterprises, and the extensive
use of international cooperation for helping in project implementation and
carrying out extensive on-the-job training of nationals.    It expects that
the management of assets should improve progressively after the current plan
period when the supply of skilled nationals would catch up with needs and the
beneficial effects of organizational improvements are increasingly felt.



1t.       While the planned growth of investment, output and private consump-
tion will lead to rapidly rising import requirements in 1975-77, there is an
unusually wide margin of uncertainty surrounding the prospects for hydro-
carbon export receipts which are to finance most of these recuirements. This
uncertainty concerns the strength of external demand for crude oil and natural
gas, the policies that Algeria and other OPEC countries may follow concerning
the volume and prices of oil production, and the technical problems still
being encountered in oil production and large-scale gas liquefaction for ex-
port. For instance, whereas the 1974-77 plan expected that during the plan
p,r4.nd Algeria's crud^ output would rise 'iy '. 7 percent per year aind .;: -
chasing power of Algerian crude on international markets would remain at the
level reached at the end of 1973, these crucial assumptions have not been
borne out by developments in 1974 and early 1975 due to technical and economic
factors. Crude oil output has declined to an annual rate of 45 million tons
in early 1975 compared to 50 in 1973, because of technical difficulties. The
realized price of crude exports has also declined from an average $13 per
barrel in early 1974 to $12 in early 1975, while Algeria has experienced an
increase in import prices of the order of 35 percent. Thus, the purchasing
power of Algerian crude in terms of its import prices has fallen in this
period by more than 30 percent. Meanwhile Algeria has continued to implement
the high investment strategy of the plan, implying a rapid increase in import
requirements. As a result of these developments, the external resource balance,
which experienced a surplus of about $220 million in 1974, may show a deficit
tentatively estimated at more than $1 billion in 1975. To finance this deficit
and keep reserves at the level needed for confidence and liquiidity, Algeria
is planning to borrow up to $2 billion from external sources in 1975. De-
pending on the level of hydrocarbon export receipts in 1976 and 1977, Algeria
may have to reduce substantially the growth of investment and private consump-
tion from the high annual rates planned for the 1974-77 period so as to keep
import and external borrowing requirements within manageable limits. While
Algeria's economic and financial prospects are particularly difficult to fore-
cast beyond 1977, since these will depend on uncertain domestic and external
factors (mainly the rate of investment, its efficiency, and the level of
hydrocarbon export receipts), it seems likely that Algeria will continue to
have sizeable external borrowing requirements until the early 1980's, when
the large export projects concerning gas and petrochemicals are expected to
make a substantial contribution to export receipts.
12.       Algeria's total external debt, outstanding and disbursed, was about
$3.2 billion ($5.0 billion including undisbursed) at the end of 1973, and
declined somewhat in 1974 since the country made advance repayments on some
of the loans contracted in 1972-73 with foreign commercial banks. Debt serv-
ice, excluding these advance repayments, is estimated to have fallen from
11.3 percent in 1973 to 9.6 percent in 1974 of export of goods and non-factor
services. It is projected to rise to about 15 percent of exports in 1977.
In later years, depending on the investment strategy which Algeria may choose
and the level of hydrocarbon export receipts, the ratio would rise further in



-0-
a range cormprised betw;:eii 15 and 19 percent of exports by 1980.  It would fol-
low a decl,inig trend -Ln thn  - '9"s when the large ,as and petrochemical proj-
ects generate increasing. exports. Algeria's external borrowing needs are large
.n the next few years, buL can be accommodated in view of the considerably en-
hanced capacity to carry debt which it has acquired as a result of the new
relationship between the prices of hydrocarbons and other commodities in world
markets, and c F the long-term prospects for gas and petrochemical exports.
PART i- - BMIK GROUP OPERATIONS
13.       Lending to Algeria resiumed in FY73 and, to date, the Bank has lent
$182 million for five loans in transport, power and education.    Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of Bank loans as of April 31, 1975, and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.   To date disbursements have been low ($4.3
million) mainly reflecting the fact that loans to the railways and power sec-
tor, as well as the port loan, were declared effective with some delay. In-
creasing familiarity with Bank procedures is expected to lead to a better
record on this account.
14.       Bank lending to Algeria initially focused on infrastructure projects
to allevIate the serious constrJints that inadequate infrastructure5 in par-
ticular transport, imposed on the development of productive sectors.    In the
future activities will be broadened in the medium-term to improve returns on
investments and to spread the benefits of growth and will focus oln technical
assistance and institution building.   The Bank's project lending would empha-
size the value of thorough project preparation and support the Government's
efforts to increase the efficiency of economic institutions. The two projects
being presented this fiscal year, for industrial credit and rural development,
are the first steps in This direction.   The proposed project would initiate
Bank involvement in the effort to implement the Government's policy of devel-
oping the poorer regions of the country and to develop instituoLions Lo serve
the agricuiltural sector. The proposed industrial credit project beifig pre-
sented simultaneously aims at improving the quality of project preparation.
Over next two years tne Bank lending program would continue to broaden this
effort and envisages projects in education, industry, transport, industrial
credit and agricultural c:.edit as well as follow-up projects to the proposed
project.
15.       In connection w:,th the Bank's proposed lending program substantial
technical assistance may be needed and requested by the Government; a joint
Bank/ITiF technical assistance mission visited Algeria in the spring of 1974
at the request of the Government to study the financial planning system, and
ir. late 1974 the Economic Development Institute held a course in Algeria deal-
ing with1 various aspects of financial planning at the central government,
banking and project levels.   Considerable interest was shown by the authori-
ties in this course, and at their request, the EDI is planning to organize
a program of courses over the next two years with the Government bearing the
cost.



PART ilI   RJRAL DEVE-LOPMENT
16.       Algeria has a land area of 2.4 million square kilometers.    Almost
90 percent is desert and steppe. Farmland, other than pasture and grazing
land, constitutes only 3 percent of the area. Sixty percent of the population
live in rural areas and over 40 percent are principally employed in agri-
culture. Of these, four-fifths are involved in traditional agriculture. A
primarily subsistence sector based on food crops and traditional stockfarming,
it consists of generally small family farms situated on less fertile land and
using traditional techniques. A modern state sector, which consists of 2,000
state farms, employs 20 percent of the agricultural labor force and accounts
for about 45 percent total agricu7ltural production. In this sector aross
pcoduct per torker is three timnes higher titan in the traditional sector.
Algeria's agricultural production has not been satisfactory, particularly in
the state sector, consIdering the productive potential and technology used in
this sector. This can be explained by a number of factors at the farm level,
including poor financial planning and management, inadequate technical advice,
lack of workers' incentives, welfare obligations, inappropriate size or loca-
tion of production units and lack of credit discipline. Moreover, agricul-
tural pricing policies, inefficient marketing organizations, and the system
of highly centralized farm management and control have not been conducive to
higher production.
17.       Income disparities between regions, underemployment in the tradi-
tional sector and the limited availability of alternative employment opportuni-
ties in the countryside have contributed to substantial migration from rural
areas into already overpopulated urban centers, resulting in urban unemploy-
ment and emigration. In order to deal with existing disparities and to slow
down rural-urban migration, the Government has initiated a number of programs
directed at rural areas and, in particular, the traditional sector. These
include: a) special programs designed to provide basic economic and social
infrastructure to the country's most disadvantaged regions. Initiated in
1966, these programs have amounted to approximately DA 8.3 billion and have
affected 12 regions; b) a program of rural development amounting to DA 357
million in the 1969-73 Plan designed to provide employment to the rural un-
employed and to upgrade public lands for both rainfed and irrigated agricul-
ture, through projects implemented at the local level; c) a program of rural
improvement to increase agricultural productivity and was budgeted DA 64 mil-
lion in the 1969-73 Plan. Within the context of the 1974-77 Plan, special
programs, totalling about DA 1 billion, will be implemented in the 300 most
disadvantaged communes; 1/ (d) the Agrarian Revolution the Government has
made a large-scale nationwide effort to address the social and economic needs
of the rural poor instituted in November, 1971.
1/   Until June 1974, Algeria was administratively divided into 15 wilayate
(regions), 90 dairate (subregions), and 691 communes (districts). It
has since been decentralized into 31 regions, 160 subregions and over
700 communes.



- 8 -
.8.       The Agrarian Revolution constitutes no single self-contained budget
..tem nor is it coordinated by one government agency. The policy and legisla-
tion are formulated by a National Commission of the Agrarian Revolution,
-whose membership includes all ministries involved and whose chairman is the
'7inister of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform. This Ministry also provides the
principal technical support through its Department of Agrarian Revolution.
Its administration is priacipally the responsibility of the regional and
local authorities.
19.       Land reform measures lie at the heart of the Agrarian Revolution.
They envisage the redistribution of land and livestock (mainly sheep) outside
the state sector to poor f'armers and landless peasants. The redistributed
_iod i-acludes sLdte or coimnunal land, properties of absentee landownels and
private holdings in excess of a size sufficient to produce three times the
annual income of a permanent farm worker in the state sector. Rights of
appeal and compensation exist for all properties subject to redistribution.
'rhe total land and livestock to be redistributed will amount to about 1.5
million ha and 3 million sheep, and affect 150,000 beneficiaries; thus, about
15 percent of the agricultural population should benefit directly from land
distribution measures. Furthermore, a large number of poor farmers will
benefit from programs to develop rural infrastructure, forest management and
alfa grass cropping. Land redistribution is being carried out within a net-
work of cooperatives in various forms according to local technical and econo-
mic needs:   small production cooperatives (CAPRA), land development groups
(CMV) and small multipurpose commuunal cooperatives (CAPCS).   In addition, the
pJanned construction of 1,000 agricultural villages will offer to their
beneficiaries a full range of social services.
20.       Completion of the first phase of the Agrarian Revolution during the
1970-73 Plan made it possible to allocate 700,000 ha of public land to 54,000
bereficiaries organized in 3,000 CAPRA's and 420 GMV's. In addition 430
CAPCS's have been set up. The second phase of the Agrarian Revolution, con-
slsting of the redistribution of private land is ncw well under way; the third
and fourth phases, involving forest management, cropping of alfa grass and
redistribution of steppe sheep, have not yet begun.
PART TV - THE PROJECT
21.       The project is based on a Government request in mid-1974 for Bank
assistance in its rural development efforts, and on the findings of a Bank
appraisal mission to Algeria in November 1974. Negotiations were held in
June 1975. The Algerian delegation was led by Mr.. R. Hassam of the Ministry
of Finance and included representatives from the 'Ministries of Interior and
Agricult,ure and Agrarian Reform.
A.   GENERAL
22.       The proposed project responds to major priorities addressed by
Government's rural development efforts. In recent years the Government has
increasingly directed substantial resources into various rural development
programs designed to improve the welfare of the rural poor. The Agrarian



-    -
Revolution, in which over DA 2 billion has already been invested, constitutes
,he Government's most ambitious and comprehensive effort to develop Algeria's
rural areas with increased agricultural production, improved social services,
higher family incomes, greater social equity and diminished rural migration
as key objectives. However, these objectives are still largely in the process
of being translated into coherent programs and projects which could lend them-
selves to Bank financing. In addition, problems in absorptive capacity and
in preparation and implementation have arisen. The proposed project is de-
signed to deal with these factors; it focuses on selected priorities: to ex-
pand the rural productive base, to strengthen the planning and implementation
capabilities of local and regional administrations, and to develop needed
rural institutions and services. The project would work with local-level
authorities to prepare, test and implement different approaches to integrated
rural development. It would concentrate, in particular, on the productivity
of small farmers. The methods and solutions developed under the project would
be designed for widespread replication elsewhere. The project's experimental
character would necessarily embody a high degree of risk, where several al-
ternatives would be tested, some of which might not be retained in rural
development policies to be applied ultimately on a national scale.
23.       The proposed project includes pilot schemes for the development of
two disadvantaged and neglected areas whose populations are among the poorest
of rural Algeria--the steppe and the mountain zone. At the national level,
the project would also address two of the principal and interrelated cons-
traints to rural development--agricultural extension and credit. In view of
Algeria's limited trained manpower, the project would provide technical assist-
ance to assure that best use be made of the substantial financial resources
Government has now committed to rural development. Specifically, the project
would provide the technical personnel and associated equipment required to
plan, prepare, test, and ultimately begin to implement the following four
selected sub-projects over a three-year period:
(a)  Integrated development of the steppe zone of Ksar Chellala,
most of which lies in the wilaya of Tiaret, mainly through
pastoral improvement;
(b)  Integrated development to benefit the population of the
daira of Arris, located in the Aures mountains and in the
wilaya of Aures, by providing selected social and economic
services;
(c)  Development of an agricultural extension system by testing
an experimental program in the wilaya of Sidi-Bel-Abbes and
by establishing specialized facilities for the training and
technical support of extension workers; and
(d) Development of a study group within the National Bank of
Algeria (BNA) to participate in the analysis and organization
of and training for agricultural credit.



24.       The project w3uld 'oe executed by four expert teams coordinated by
a Coordinato- within the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA).
The project would be intograted wi-thin exist.ng Coverm-ent structures and pro-
grams.  it would require 52 Algerian specialists and 24 foreign specialists
on a fU1l-t4 .2e basis and about '46 man-months of short-term consultant
services. It would include small equipment needed by the experts to initiate
each of the sub-projects.   Ov.erall costs of the project are estimated at
US$11.5 million equivalent, including contingencies.    The proposed Bank loan
of USS8.0 million, representing 70 percent of total project costs, would
finence the foreig    nxch-ange costs of the P-rcijc-;c.  The  igh share of foreign
exchiange costs, not unusuai in techinical assistance projects, reflects the
heavy input of techanical advisers.  The United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) has been unable to participate financially in the project.
25.       T}he proposed project could be tlhe first phase of an anticipated
wider Bank involvement in Algeria's rural development in subsequent years.
Necessary technical assistance would be Drovided to plan, prepare, test, and
ultimately begin to imrnlement the four subprojects selected.   As preparation
is completed on one or more of the subprojects and if Government, in con-
sultation with the Bank, decides to proceed with implementation, Bank fi-
nancing may be considered for capital investment in later phases.
B. SUBPROJECTS
(a)   Integrated Steppe Develop2ment
26.       The Algerian steppe constitutes approximately 20 million ha, extend-
ing east-west along a band of 1,000 km in length and 150-300 km in width,
and marked by rainfall averaging from 100 to 400 mm. It contains about 2 mr,_-
lion people, of which 35 percent are considered nomadic, and roughly 6 million
.,heep, representi-ag dlOui 70 percent of the national total and an annual meat
production of 40,000 tons.. The steppe has historically observed a social and
biological equilibrium  that is now breaking down due to (a' the increasing
n-,,bers (3.2 percent growt:i rate per year) anrd sedentariza-.ion of the steppe
Do-ulation, (b) the introducti'on cf cereal cu'Livation, accomoanied by mechan-
4cai tillage, to 250,000 ha each year and now totalling 3 million ha, (c) the
disintegraticn of traditioinal Lribal arrangements concerning grazing rights,
water points, and migration routes, and (d) the general shift from a subsist-
ence to a market economy. Substantial degradatiorn of the steppe has resulted,
as evidenced by the 200,000 ha per year lost to desert.ification; and progres-
sive disintegration of traditional economic and social structures has also
occurred. The Government now intends to reverse these processes under the
Agrarian Revolution through the application of a Pastoral Code, which envisages
the equitable distribution of the steppe's resources, the protection and
regeneration of grazing lands, the organization of the pastoral population
and the provision of necessary social and economic services .o this population,
Lncluciing an investment program exceeding DA 1 billion over the 1974-77 Four-
'fe?r Plan, to be implemented within the third ephase of the Agrarian Revolution.



27.       The 1-:4project would provide the personnel and associated equipment
to plan. prepare and test the integrated development of the zone of Ksar
Chellala, an area representi-n 8CJO000 ha of steppe and falling within the
administrative jurisdictions of the wilayate of Tiaret, Djelfa, and Medea.
The Ksar Chellaia zone was seleczed for the subproject because it typifies the
social and ecological conditions of much of the steppe, it is centrally locat-
ed within the steppe, it has already been the subject of substantial base-line
studies and it is endowed with underground water resources to permit integrat-
ed pastoral development. The zone has a rainfall of 250-300 mm and an alti-
tude of 600-1,600 m. It is diviceed administratively into six communes whose
total population is about 115,000 and composed of some 10 tribes.    The sheep
population is appioximately 300,600, of which about 30 percent are owned by
nomads. The zone is important as an axis route for the annual nomadic migra-
tions to the North. Between 100-150,000 ha are cultivated in cereals yielding
an average 3-4 quintals per hectare.
28.       The subproject would ain at improving the social and economic
welfare of the area's pastoral population, particularly the poorest elements
who are either sheepowners who possess less than 50 sheep per family or shep-
herds who own no sheep. Such improvement would come through the introduction
of a series of integrated technical and social measures, which once adequate-
ly developed could be applied elsewhere in the steppe. New structures and
techniques would be designed and tested to benefit the steppe population.
The subproject would inclu,de planning, preparation, and testing of the follow-
ing:
a.    organization of the pastoral population following study of
the major socio-economic considerations of establishing
pastoral cooperatives, strengthening local administration,
and comprehensive land-use planning of the zone;
b.    rehabilitation of the soi's and regeneration of range land
through rotation of grazing, selective replanting, local
reforestation programs and the control of cereal cultiva-
tion;
c.    improvement of other conditions for livestock, including the
number of water points, augmenting fodder resources by
irrigation, providing sheep shelters, and improving
veterinary services;
d.    provision of social infrastructure to existing and new
villages, including housing, health facilities, schools and
water supply, to meet the needs of the nomadic poor as they
sedentarize; and
e.    diversification of the economic opportunities available to
the pastoral population by establishing handicrafts and small-
scale processing industries based on sheep by-products,



- 12? -
improving the marketing systems, extending afforestration
programs and creating new employment in the primary and
secondary sectors elsewhere in the zone.
29.       The subproject would require, over a three-year period, a team of
specialists whose work would be divided into two phases. Phase I, lasting
about one year, would involve:
a.   analysis, updating and supplementing of existing baseline
studies _. Lhe full K.sar Chella zone, IricLu -g st.dy of
potentially irrigable soils, updating grassland maps,
additional hydrological studies, inventory of existing
flocks, elaboration of the agricultural census and district
monographs, utilization of aerial photographs for land-use
planning, socio-economic surveys including in-depth study
of the target population and existing cooperatives, study
of marketing systems, study of required social infrastructure,
review of the existing administrative system and analysis of
employment needs of the area and alternative forms of employ-
ment possible;
b.   initiation of field experimentation on three existinr.  coopera-
tives and a pilot farm, to be continued during Phase II, includ-
ing testing methods for regeneration of existing cooperatives'
rangeland by such means as restricted access, grazing systems,
and selective seeding; testing irrigated and rainfed cultiva-
tion of different fodder resources; experimenting with existing
flocks to improve production by investigating dry season feed
requirements, optimal lambing dates, or possibilities of fatten-
ing lambs in the steppe; and by tes,ing and developing equipment
adapted to the Steppe together with improved animal health mea-
sures; and
c.   preparation of an integrated development program for selected
actions in three experimental comm,unes, including, at the macro
level, land-use planning for the three experimental communes
which would integrate the sectoral studies prepared during this
phnase for application in the test zone and which would recognize
the complementarity of the pastoral units, irrigation systems, and
social infrastructure to be established; and at the micro
level, planning of several selected cooperatives, both as
social organizations and as management units, and preparation
of management schemes designed to make best use of the area's
natural resources.
30.       Phase II would involve continuation of research and testing initiat-
ed under the first phase and implementation of the integrated development



program. on a selective basis in the three experimental communes.   The sub-
project wo-Ld test under local conditions recommended structures and tech-
niques, including resettlemenit and organization of the target population in
different forms of cooperatives; riethods of flock management; stocking capa-
city of different kinds of pasture and during different seasons; timing of
various systems of grazing rotation and restriction; use of irrigation to
supplement fodder supplies; .unctioning of the multipurpose communal coopera-
tives (CAPCS) in the provision of inputs and marketing of outputs and the
supply of such services as credit, extension, and veterinary; alternative
forms of employment and social infrastructure and services best adapted to
the local environment and population. In addition, on the basis of experience
acquired from the three experimental communes, the subproject findings would
be summarized and an integrated development plan for the full Ksar Chellala
zone would be prepared.
31.       The subproject would provide for five foreign specialists, including
a range management specialist, grassland specialist, agronomist, livestock
specialist and rural works engineer to work full-time during 2-3 years.
Moreover, it would require over the three-year period seven Algerian spe-
cialists including an agronomist, a grassland specialist, two livestock spe-
cialists, a sociologist, agro-economist and rural works engineer, as well as
the participation during 72 man-months of a team of field investigators for
sociological surveys, livestock census and water points inventory. In addi-
tion, the subproject would provide for 74 man-months of short-term consultant
services, including the participation of an hydrologist, economist, soils
specialist, photo-interpretation expert, specialist in cooperative book-
keeping, sociologist, handicrafts specialist, industrial processing expert
and forestry specialist. The subproject would include the auxiliary equipment
consisting of sheep shelters, water points, and fencing materials, required on
the cooperatives to be used during Phase I and II. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that Government and the Bank, prior to initiation of Phase
II, would jointly review whatever capital investments would be required during
Phase II. Agreement between Government and the Bank on the necessary capital
investment would be a condition for disbursements during Phase II.
(b) Integrated MIountain Development
32.       The mountainous areas of Algeria are among the country's poorest
regions. Characteristic of such areas are steep slopes, substantial soil
erosion, poor soil fertility, inadequate surface and underground water, low
levels of rainfall, and a continental climate of frost and snowfall. ilis-
torically, such areas have also suffered from over-population, and high pop-
ulation densities persist today under continuing adverse natural conditions.
The mountainous areas are dominated by small marginal farms. The larger and
richer state farms are few. Substantial unemployment predominates, forcing
emigration to the cities and abroad. The social and economic infrastructure
is inadequate. An increasing gap is thus evident between the aspirations
and needs of the mountain poor and the opportunities which the ecology and
economy of such areas can provide.



- 14 -
33.       The subproject woul- involve integrated rural development of the
Aures mountain region, which is a3iiong the most disadvantaged mountain areas
in Algeria. The area haS been selected because (a) it is extremely poor but
nonetheless has a Dotential :'or development, (b) it typifies the problems of
the mountain zone and thus has potential for replication, and (c) it has
strong administrative support.   It covers about ' millior. ha, of which less
than 250,000 ha are arable. The population is about 400,000 and is growing at
more than 3 percent per year. Rainfall var-es between 200 and 450 mm, and
frost and snowfall characterize the winter months.   The Aures mountains fall
within the administrative jurisdiction of the wilava of Aures. Most of the
:       -. 1.11v-Ivcd eni subsistence agriculture, mainly fruit
and cereal cultivation complemented by small-scale livestock activities.
There is virtually no industry in the area. Approximately 30 percent of the
active rural male population work outside the region, of which two-thirds
in Europe. Primary school attendance is 50 percent of those eligible, as
compared to the national average of 66 percent, and the literacy rate is 27
percent.
34.       The subproject would concentrate on the population (approximately
104,000) of the daira of Arris in the heart of the Aures mountains. The
daira is roughly 415,000 ha, of which approximately 40,000 ha are arable,
divided into about 2,000 ha of fruit trees and 38,000 ha of cereals and fal-
low. The average landholding of an extended family is about 4.5 ha, which
is generally divided into'3--4 different plots. The population density is
thus about 2.5 inhabitants per hectare of arable land, about two and one half
times the national average.   Because of its fragmented small holdings the
daira has been virtually unaffected by the creation of state farms or of
cooperatives of the Agrarian Revolution.   The gross product per capita of the
daira is roughly DA 175, as compared to the average of DA 330 in the wilaya
and the national average of DA 1,200. The unemployment rate, which does
not include the underemployment fouind throughout much of agriculture, is as-
timated at almost 40 percent. Despite the efforts of Government instituted
through a special development program in 1968, the social and economic in-
frastructure of the daira remains iniadequate. There are 258 primary school
classrooms and one secondary scliool.  The daira has four health centers and
13 consultation rooms. Nkost of the villages in the daira have neither water
supply nor sewage systems. The road system is inadequate, and several valleys
remain inaccessible to mo.:or traffic.
35.       The subproject would provide the personnel and associated equipment
needed to plan, prepare, and begin to implement an integrated development
project designed to improve the welfare of the target population of the daira
of Arris, through increased employment, improved economic opportunities and
extended social services. It would seek to discourage emigration, in line
with Government policy, and thus indirectly relieve rhe increasing burden on
the cities of the North. The experience gained would be applied to other
poor mountain areas.



36.       The development effort wou&d be directed toward (a) intensive devel-
opment of the daira itself and (b) development of selected areas adjacent
to the daira. Resettlement of the target population to another more richly
endowed region is not considered as a viable alternative, because such efforts
have failed in the past and are not supported by Government.    The project
would exploit possibilities within the daira to improve the social and
economic well-being of the target population. Possible opportunities for
development include agricultural improvements, such as the introduction of
new tree crops and horticultural pract'ces, intensification of vegetable
farming where water resources permit, bee-keeping, poultry, and small-scale
livestock development cad ;i.   Zaqchniques of zereai cum.-t.on; minor irriga-
tion, involving small diversion and control dams and related works; creation
of small-scale industries, such as f-uit-processing, furniture and building
materials factories; development of handicrafts and of tourism; public work
projects, including reforestation and road construction; possible mining
activities; and establishment of requisite social services including schools,
health facilities water suDply and drainage systems, improved housing and
necessary public buildings. Such support services as agricultural credit,
extension, and marketing services for agriculture, local-level contracting
companies for construction, and planning and administrative support for local-
level government, would also be developed.
37.        Because of the limited agricultural potential of Lhe daira of
Arris, the subproject would not be restricted to the target area but would
also include investment opportunities in adjacent areas which might benefit
the employment or income needs of the target population. Thus, possibilities
would be explored in the foothills and on the plains, where water and soil
resources are more plentiful, for intensified agriculture, possibly to be
implemented by cooperatives of the Agrarian Revolution (CAPRA's) whose members
would be drawn from the target population. Opportunities for small-scale
industrial activity, desfgned to benefit the target population, would also be
explored elsewhere in the region.
38.       The subproject would provide a team of specialists for a three-year
period whose work would be divided into two phases.    Phase 1, lasting about
one year, would consist of' fitial studies and inventories.     Resource surveys,
covering the necessary land-use, soi-, hydrological, climate and geologic
studies would be initiated or supplemented; aerial photographis would be used
as required; existing services, including credit, marketing, input supply,
and social services, would be analyzed; socio-economic surveys, including
in-depth study of the target population, its social structure, migratory
patterns, and employment practices, would be conducted; the existing adminis-
trative systemT, including its resources in equipment and personnel, would be
reviewed; and selected tests to determine representative costs and benefits
would be conducted. These initial studies and inventories would serve to
identify the principal opportunities for and constraints to development of
the target population and area, on the basis of which a comprehensive develop-
iment plan could then be formulated,   Phase  , following completion of the
devclopmert plan, would also involve detailed .reparation.    Tnis wouid in-
clude detailed description of the selected components setting forth the



resources required, Liming, and Lenefit analysis.  The socio-economic and
technical studies necessarv to accomplish the development plan would be
prepared. These might include feasibility studies, detailed engineering
studies, village development sche-Ines, individual farm budgets, and detailed
design of small-scale industrial Drants.  Detailed cost estimates and attendant
benefits would be calculat-:d. The niecessary support services would be de-
signed.  Organizational and managerial arrangements of the development proj-
ect and its components, including -ndication of needed administrative changes
or reinforcement, would be formulated. A system to monitor and evaluate the
program would be devised.
^  P- e    ', uring the  euaini;ig 2 ,;s .;J  Inav_ve C:.
of detailed preparation and initiation of subproject implementation, as and
whien individual subproject components were prepared. The specialists required
during implementation would particiLpate as advisors in organization and man-
agement of the program as planned and prepared in Phase I.
4n.       The subproject would provide for five foreign specialists to work
during the full three years, including an agriculturist, economist, rural
works engineer, forestry specialist, livestock specialist, and community
development planner during Phase l.  The composition of the permanent team
during Phase II would be modified as necessary to reflect the needs of the
project as prepared.  The subproject would include over the three-year period
11 Algerian specialists in agriculture, economics, civil engineering, rural
works engineering, sociology, and architecture, as well as the periodic assist-
ance of Algerian topographic and water resoLLrces slurvey teams.  The subproject
would require 24 man-months of short-term consultant services, including the
participation of foreign experts in agricultural extension, horticulture,
bec-keepingt hydrology, scciology, mining and fruit processing during the
first year. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government
arid the Bank wou!ld jointly :ceview, prior to initiation of each phase, the
reports and recommendations concluding the Phase I, and prior to initiation
.J ihase II, revie.w whateve.: capital investments would be required during
Phase II, for which (overnment would assume responsibility.   Agreement be-
tween Government and the Bank on the necessary capital investment would be
a condition for disbursements during Phase II.
(c)   Agricultural Extenlsion System Development
41.       An agricultural extension system has not yet been established in
Algeria but is included in the 1974-77 development Plan. Small private
farmers and newly formed cooperatives of the Agrarian Revolution, representing
80 percent of the agricultural work force, thus have negligible access to the
body of agricultural knowledge and techniques currently available.   To improve
agricult4ral production they must now relinquish traditional concepts, acquire
new skills, and adopt new anAd improved practices. Most are illiterate and
need assistance to adjust to new agricultural technologies. At present,
however, dissemination of new informationi is weak, and effective liaison
between farmers and existinrg support services is minimal. Traditional
farmers, in turn, have difficulty in identifying and articulating their pro-
duction problems to Government agencies of which they are often ignorant qx
suspicious. Algeria's agricultural production has suffered accordingly.



- 'I7 -
42.       A well-structured agricultural extension system is therefore needed
to convey new agricultural information to farmers and translate farmers'
needs to agricultural technicians. Algeria's 1974-77 Four-Year Plan empha-
sizes the need to build up such a system. Its global objectives would be to
assist and encourage farmers and cooperatives to improve production by adopt-
ing improved agricultural practices, which it would attempt to achieve by
(i) providing an essential link between farmers and their technical support
services, including agricultural research, credit, inputs supply and market-
ing; and (ii) assisting farmers in gaining a better understanding of coopera-
tives and other farmer associations.
43.       The subprojec.L ..-Ild psovide for deveiopiLL*u  of an agricultural
extension system by testing an experimental program in the wilaya of Sidi-Bel-
Abbes and by developing specialized facilities for the training and technical
support of extension agents. It would:
a.    define extension methods most relevant to the Algerian socio-
economic system and Algerian agriculture;
b.    identify and develop profitable and low-risk technical packages
of improved farm practices adapted to the small farmer and his
environment;
c.    evaluate and strengthen existing agricultural institutions and
services as required, with special emphasis on research, credit,
input supply and marketing and indicate any new services needed
to support an extension system integrated within present struc-
tures; and
d.    strengthen the technical and administrative capabilities of the
National Center for Agricultural Education (CNPA), to be respon-
sible for training, supervision and coordination of a national
extension system.
44.       The subproject would require over a three-year period a team of
specialists, whose work would be divided into four phases. Phase I, lasting
about seven months, would involve initial organization and orientation of the
team. Preliminary studies of the selected trial zones, including existing
agricultural conditions and practices, socio-economic structures, and agri-
cultural support systems, would be initiated. In particular, the team would
identify improved technical practices to be extended to farmers during Phase
II. A work plan for Phase II would be prepared, including specification of
recommended methods, procedures and hypotheses to be tested through research
and investigation. To test these methods, procedures and hypotheses, student
extension agents would be recruited, for whom a short-term basic extension
orientation program would also be prepared.
45.       Phase II, lasting approximately 14 months, would include implementa-
tion of the orientation program and in-service training for the student exten-
sion agents. It would involve development of improved and cost-effectiveo



-  ja
agricultural practices identffifd during Phase I.    it would constitute the
principal research effort and woluld include studies of:   the different target
groups, the most effective approaches and methods of extension, the recommend-
ed characteristics and use of extension agents and village level workers, the
support requirements of exten ion agents, and the integration of the extension
effort with cisting develop.nt progr-ams, complementary social services and
other agricultural services including credit, marketing and research.    The
studies would serve to pzepare a preliminary plan for an extension agent train-
ing program and a report on the agricultural support system as it relates to
extension and recommended improveennnts.
46-       Phase III, during a period of four months, would involve final de-
sign of the extension agent training pDogrami, continuation of monitoring and
assistance to student extension agents, and preliminary design of a full sys-
tem of extension support services. Phase IV, during the final year, would
constitute implementation of the full-scale    training program and establish-
ment of the extension support services required. The study and experimenta-
tion initiated during Phase II in the trial wilaya would be continued as
needed during Phases III and IV.   Tts evaluation would provide continued in-
put to the program design.
47.       The subproject would include the following nine full-time foreign
specialists over the three-year period: two agricultural education and train-
ing specialists, two agrieultural extension specialists, an agricultural
economist, sociologist, organizational specialist, curriculum development
specialist, and mass media specialist. The project would provide for 12
Algerian specialists over the three year period, including four agricultura-
lists, two agronomists and livestock specialists, a horticulturalist, vege-
table production specialist, agro-economist, and rural sociologist. One
student extension agent would also be assigned to each commune of the trial
regions selected. In addition, the project would provide for 48 man-months
of short-term cuaib;liing services, including the participation of evaluation
specialists, an economist, citrus specialist, agronomist, livestock and
poultry specialist, cooperative education specialist, and management spe-
cialist.  The subproject would include the lecessary demonstration equipment
required by the specialists.   Assurances were obtained during negotiations,
that Government and the Bank jointly review prior to initiation of each phase,
the reports and recommendations concluding the previous phase and, prior to
initiation of Phase III, r-eview the training facilities required for the
extension agent training program, the provision of which would be the respon-
sibility of Government.   Agreement between Government and the Bank on the
necessary training facilities would be a condition for 'disbursements during
Phase IV.
(d)   Agricultural Credit Study Group
48.       Sole responsibility for agr. cuizural credit in Algeria rests with
the National Bank of Algeria (BNA). During 5973-74 seasonal credit was
provided to state farms amounting -t DA ' ,688 million, to cooperatives
amounting to DA 204 million, and to private farms amounting to approximately



DA 70 million.  Mediu.-m- and long-term credit allocated in 1973 totalled
DA 477 million for the state sector, DA 227 million for the cooperative
sector and DA 130 million fo-- the p:ivate sector.   The terms of lending vary
with interest rates from 2.5 to 4 percent.
49.       Certain difficulties mark the provision of agricultural credit in
Algeria.  First, agricultural cred,t to the majority of the agricultural
sector has been available until recently only in disproportionately small
and irregular amounts. The private sector, which prior to the Agrarian Revo-
lution represented about 55 percent of total production and 80 percent of
the agricultural work force, has had access to only 4 percent of total sea-
scnal zrcdit, 's com ;M:'   --J Lc i  . fc pS 'C:Cn-t allocated to the .  .-_
Any effort to increase agricultural production through improved technical
packages, extension services, supply of inputs and marketing facilities will
be seriously hindered unless sufficient credit is made available. Second,
agricultural credit has turned out in recent years to serve frequently as a
method of subsidization and appears often not to be considered as an actual
lending operation. Credit recovery for all sectors of agricultural production
has been extremely poor. Less than 65 percent of 1972-73 seasonal credit to
state farms has been recovered, the vast majority of cooperatives have not
repaid their outstanding loans, and credit repayment of the traditional pri-
vate sector is estimated at only 10-15 percent. This poor record is due to
the unsatisfactory financial performance of most units of production (see
para 16). The majority are chronically deficitary, and are thus in no posi-
tion to repay outstanding ioans. In addition, BNA has not always been able
to assess the financial requirements and repayment capacities of various
units of production and to undertake the necessary supervision.
50.       The concern aroused by these problems has led BNA to take steps
towards their solution. It expects to increase its lending to the private
sector. It plans in the near future to extend its network of agencies to
the commune level and to double its personnel, in order to appraise and
administer credit requirements of the private sector and to supervise more
closely the operations of all sectors. It envisages a training program to
upgrade the quality of all its staff. It has begun to introduce a provision-
al plan of financing to impose a new sense of credit discipline on all state
farms and CAPRA's.
51.       The subproject provides for assistance to study group within the
central offices of BNA to review BNA's policies and procedures. The study
group, now under creation, would eventually number 25 and would be divided
into sections on preparation of technical reports on credit to the agricul-
tural sector, data processing, and training.   The sections would contain re-
spectively nine, seven and six professional personnel. The group would
generally be involved in the study, not the implementation of policy and
procedure. The subproject would include provision of a foreign specialist
for two years to each of the three principal sections. Each specialist
would (a) organize the structure and work program of the section in which
he works, (b) review the existing situation in BNA relevant to his section,



(c) modify or develop the appropriate systems or programs as required, (d)
train counterpart Algerian staff, and (e) in general, provide the necessary
organizational and technical guidance and impetus.
52.       The analytical section would deal with specific questions of agri-
cultural credit such as lending po'Licies, including methods of credit recovery,
imoroved credit discipline, methods of credit appraisal and such as use of
norms and weighted averages. In addition, it would assess demand for various
kinds of credit. As soon as practicable, the recommended policies and methods
would be applied in selected areas or sectors on a trial basis. The data
processing section would work principallv to develop systems to collect,
classify, sya.n__ze ar.d ultimately aii:',- -      ci&S naiaount of *on
that will become available as BNA builds up and extends its network.     The
training section would plan and prepare for the training of personnel required
at all levels to staff the greatly expanded network of BNA agencies.
C.   PILEMENTATION
Organization and Management
53.       The project would be executed by the four sub-project teams; the
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA) would be responsible for
coordination. A project coordinator would be designated within MARA, to be
assisted by an internationally recruited adviser and to be endowed with the
necessary powers and means to assure project implementation. The functions
of the Coordinator and of his staff would include: (a) monitor and reviewq
of the work and operations of the sub-project teams, (b) logistical and ad-
ministrative support to the four sub-project teams, (c) liaison between the
sub-project teams, the Government agencies concerned, and the Bank for the
project's operations and (d) secretarial support to the Technical Commission
referred to below. Toward this end, it is proposed that the Coordinator would
(a) expedite the provision of Algerian personnel to the project tonms as
needed, (b) approve all short-term consultant contracts and any changes in
the assignment of permanent staff, (c) approve and forward to the Bank monthly
reimbursement claims from the sub-project teams, (d) receive and review
monthly progress reports from the sub-project teams and prepare quarterly
progress reports to be forwarded to the Bank and technical commission, and
(e) communicate with and visit the sub-project teams and those to whom they
are responsible on a regular basis. In matters of policv and procedure, the
Algerian delegation indicated during negotiations that the project would be
guided by an interministerial'Technical Commission.    This commission would
include representatives of the various agencies involved.
54.       A separate team would be constituted for each sub-project.     Each
team would be managed, with the exception of the credit sub-project, by an
Algerian sub-project director, and assisted by an expatriate team leader
appointed by a consulting firm following aDproval by the Government and the
Bank. The credit subproject would be managed by the director of the study
group appointed by the Department of Agricultural Financing of BNA. Close
interdisciplinary coordination and cooperation would be essential for each



sub-project and would be one of the principal tasks of the team leader. Each
sub-project team on matters of substance would report and be responsible
to the regional administration and to the technical ministry directly con-
cerned. The Governors of wilayas concerned, as the heads of Government at the
regional level, would assume regular responsibility for the implementation of
the first three projects. The Director of the Department of Agricultural
Financing of the National Bank of Algeria (BNA) would be responsible for the
implementation of the credit sub-project.
55.       Each sub-project would be executed by an integrated team of Alger-
ian and foreign specialists employed on a full-time basis, and by short-term
ccs.i taiits.  The foreign specialists and short--term consultants would be
provided by consulting firms to be selected in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank. A separate selection process is envisaged for each
sub-project out of which would result a contract between Government and the
consulting firm selected. The terms and conditions of each contract, and the
terms of reference for all consulting services, would be approved by the Bank.
The consulting firm for each sub-project would be responsible for the sub-
stantive work, with special emphasis on the integration and training of the
Algerian specialists. Each sub-project team would submit a monthly progress
report to the coordinator, who would, in turn, prepare a quarterly progress
report to the Bank. In addition, full substantive reports would be submitted
by the foreign specialist at the end of each sub-project phase or at other
specified intervals. Government and the Bank would jointly review the work
of each sub-project team and the terms of reference of the respective consult-
ing firm's contract at the end of each phase and would modify the terms of
reference as required. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Government would provide for current operating costs for vehicles of Algerian
personnel, housing, offices, office equipment, administrative and secretarial
personnel, and equipment for the coordinator and each of the four sub-projects.
Vehicles for the foreign experts would be provided by each consulting firm.
Vehicles for local personnel would be financed directly from the loan.
56.       The advisor to the coordinator would be recruited by Government,
with the assistance and agreement of the Bank. If necessary, in order to
find a sufficiently qualified individual, the Bank would recruit on a fixed-
term contract and second to Government the required individual for the period
of the project.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       The selection of Consultants would be made according to Bank pro-
cedures. Procurement of vehicles for Algerian personnel, whose foreign ex-
change costs are estimated to be about US$180,000, would be on the basis of
international competitive bidding but limited to firms that have service
facilities in Algeria. Bulking of orders for experimental and demonstration
equipment would not be practicable, since such equipment would be purchased
in small and very diversified lots over the project.   Purchases-would be
handled in accordance with local procedures, which are satisfactory to the
Bank.



- 22 -
58.       Disbursemerts from the loan would be on the basis of 100 percent of
foreign exchange costs l-or coastulting services and associated equipment.
Each of the consulting firms selected, upon award of contract, would be paid
10 percent of the total amount contracted to defray start-up costs. There-
after, disbursements would be made tc the firms on the basis of monthly
invoices subm'tted to the coordinator less an apportioned amount of the or-
iginal start-up cost allowance. O'fices, office equipment and the salaries
of all Algerian personnel would be financed by Government.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMUNTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Democratic and Popular Republic
of Algeria and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors separately.
60.       A condition of disbursement for Phases II, III and IV respectively
of the steppe, mountain and extension sub-projects would be that the Govern-
ment and the Bank reach agreement on the necessary capital investments for
each phase (paras 31, 40, 47 and paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan.
Agreement.
61.       A condition of effectiveness of the loan would be the designation of
the project coordinator (para 52 and Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 10, 1975



1XUR,P iTA -ALU4,iKA
hex%jL  im                                        R  M    11    (.id-1972)
Per IcxZ.f ar.hl. land
SoCAL IKDICAIVM
Algeria               ~~~~Refer'ence Countries
OFP   2 IAYITA US$ (A7Wa  BAilS) /1                             4.130 /a.                       220 /a~       370 /      3,620 L/.
ra~te S       (Par tkMa.ond)                             4.19 /b                          45 /    ~     38 /c.d    16.7
Crude deat)h rate (per tcou,"nd),.                                             17 A            12            130.
Infant Xrt.l-ty ratn (Pe' thousand lse birthe)                ..86 f,                          80           Wh    ~     18.2
Weo exPectenC;, At birth (yoars)                              ..52                             58            55r        71.2
Iroen  reprvductLim ztat 12                                   .3.                             3.3           2.6 4.J      1.3
fpul.latio  growth rate                                       1. 5            3.2  3..0 1.L                 2 151 0 L.,
fPoplation gronth rate - ura                                    7L.Ak           6               L./         425          204
Age eteu.tura (percent)
0411,                                                       1.Lg.           47              1.3I       41 8          23.7
15' 64                                       ~~~~~~~~~~52/18 i                53         53.9          62.9
65 and ovr                                                     ./             5    r /4.3                             13.1,
D,enedency rati.i 4                                                           23              l<1           1.3 /a       1.6 /a
Urban population an percent 6t total                           31 /k           39 A8           32r         3 8.? :L7      70L.
Yaeily plaeiqgI v.~ of aceeptors cumul.tiv. ( thou.                                           LO, .0         .1.L.
No.   f user   (% of married o.en)         ...8                                          8.2
I force ithusands)                                        ..2,600) /ru                 13,200        11,500       2'1
Percentage Weloyed in agriculture                            ..50 4u-                        5b  v          9
RM    Ao TMERniIilal income reoai,od by hilgheot S%             ...25 ZX                                      10 4
Percent of national income r:eeivd by highest 20%             ..51 b                                 ~      60   W
Percent of national 8.neooe reteived by lowert 20%             ..             .                                 Z. !W 
Pecn MfnionaL Income received by lowast 4.0%             ..1?                                          0
NW,=  "I'XM MIR.                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~53
% .o,ned by   lleet 10% of owmere                              ...                             .0.9
WY-1.1UPARPS01 9purai cian                                 1 ~~~7860       9,0    8      2,220          750
P      vsat.o   par  sng preon                          ..           2730    i        5,390 4.     1,880 /ab       37
Ppolautice per ho"spita  bed                                  310 /a,         31.0 /a, 80              ed   190           31.0 /0.
Far capita calorie eeppiy as I of requirsaenta                  92 /           80               8           113 /-        123 Li.&
Par capIts protein supply, total (gra5s 65                                                                   76.103
Of okch, anulel                       per day  /ILaP                                          22622                      66
Death rate 1-4 years aZ                                                        12                            15 h         0.8
eecoonparm    y   ohonI erollimnt ratio                   86              75              11/hai       III11
Adjste        m p1.ory schol enrollment ratio                   1.              71              112,          28           178
Years  f    ooling poovided, first and saecon  level        13-15           13-15              10            U             I.4
vocational er.,llumt as I of eaC. school er.rllmxnt            29 /8,(         20              l0 481,ok    1IL            23 La
Aft11 Iiteracy rat. I                                          .               25 /r.           75           .~55 /a       99 /8m
MgE      No. of Peracn3 per reoo  (.rbat)                       ..2.6 /4rj                                   1.90.              gp
Percet o occupied    nilt3 aithout piped water                 ..77r k.a                       66 /ah.so     61./49
iceet  lectricity (me % of total population)             ..31.L                           23           11L   ~      9 iS
Percent of f.ral populatic. connectud to alectricity          I.                  2 j           6 /A         18 Lg         , 9    A
L-.etor      per 1.20 poplel-'e                            9.              1.7 La           9            0 L.         92   a
Passenger care par 100 Ppobo.tion                              16              10 /8                        lotI aj       2179 
Blectric power ccms.uption (kwh p.c.)                         123             162 Li           255 Li        0hj/8     3 013 2L9
Newsprint conaw;ption p.c. kg per year                        0.6            0.01 Li           1.7aL        2.?2L        11.? 
Notes.' Figures refer eIther to the Ietnat periodis or to           account OX  WOiona        ueet.R        oY Waighte, ENd
the lot.ot years.  .Latae perIod. refer 1. principle to             distrib.ution by age aned sea  of natioral populations. 
the Yeara 1956-60 or 19o6-70, the latest yerar In prin-         /6  Protein atandar~ds (requiremensa) for all. oouobrIa  aa,eat.b-
cl.ple to 1960 sod 1970.                                             inahad by U36 lemonlni Rtsaarcb Service provide f4   a mionium
..The ?or Capita G2bF eatLiato i- at cerit prlc,. fur              allowance of 60 verne of total protein per day, and 20 grama of
y,c.r ath., thon 1960,calculot.d by the came cooverolon          MAMIma  MAn  ple. protein, of -hloh 10 crmsa should be animal
technique as the 1972 World Bo,k Atlioo.                        protein.   Thee satndiards arm ao..wbat bow   11hen tWee of 75
a. Averuge numebr of deoghtere per wean c-f reproductive             gram of total protein an   23 geam  of animal prtotin as aM
aog.                                                             average for the world, proposed by TAO in the ThArd Wbrld Food
P8 bpu.1a'Lion growth retec aeye for the decodes ending In        surmeya
1960 u,id 1970.                                                       I om  tudlee have ecggosta,: that crude death ratoo of d,ildren
&   atio of population cder 15 ond 65 and over to thoe.           agee   through 4. nay ho uoed as a fir t approzintion index of
*  I  ton IPo,r force frv,e age i  t. 6h.  .                       alnutrition.
?A0 refereoce standlards represent phy.i.iogl-l2 ~.         /    Percentage enrolled of co,aupeoding popilation of school Age
quirceents for normal activity and heo.ib, LolinP                as daf trad for such country.
Is 1972;   A6  l961-70 t' ectbcete;    /A  19-65-70;  /d   Derived free saanpl.e sur,ve  o1ticete3 (24.0,000 perooco), excluding
17 seoter  provinces;    /8.  196!;  7f  Algerian population only';   /a1968;       i  1965-67;    Li  1960-721   L   195L-60;
/~k  55 of tht coot joporteAt Communes bari_ng local ealf-governmentl         1960-66;  I~ For the definition of urba, see
Dar.gtrnhic TorbaooL   1972, P. 155;   /o   Administretive Centers of provinces and districto   (v~ilmyetl, end  lac' Centere);
/o Ooer 2,000 population; ~R     EntLmaLe;   /8  1960-61 UN ectilete, based an resulto of a pos.-Ceosal Beople wurvey taben
fren and of 19650 to Sprin.g of 1961, excluding populatlon of the two Departeect. of the SAWo,, nobering 587,569 at 1960
cooon;   /r  19-66;   La 1961.-Jce 1971.;   /t~ 86 percent being MOe;      /u  Excluding alllar2. personnel In bar~-cks
end 231.,668 nationals abroad of whon 229,020 are economically` aCtive,aleo excluding 1,200,000 fecele mainly occupied in
Agriculture ;  /v   1971;   /.  15 years end over;    Ic  Households;     a  Disposable income;   /8   1969;   /as  P-rcono1
Or. gov_eront eervi Ce  oni3y;  /ti  inclUdi.g snoitant nurses and aldwivee;      /ao  1962;   lad   Including rural hoopitals;
/re  .l-vrncrt hoseplt.le only;    lsf  1961.-66;   /aA  1969-70;   /)    197     LB   rat1c*te whicEh          ."de  vr-age studento;
Not ichic         rlate -rcotional              /.plo  k  Not Including vo-ntlOnal ohort-tern crroo;    l  Peraninseix years
>4 ...u ~vczci._ 11 0,o c.nc-  tak.rs th.at TIy C-. .t,d &~- -,it.;   /=c  B.fluLic:, Pt! ,. -= I;      Lin.   .
rural;   lao  Ferceoniage of dwellings;   /8p   Including vacant dwollingai    La   Inside or .utaids.
France 1s selected e0 the objecti,o country because it Ie a representative of the .IC Counotries, to which the
Algerian ec-onoy wili1 probably be cloaely linked.



EC~ONOMIC DEVEIOPMRNrT DATAPae2o3Pgs
Actual      Eat                Er__   roetd1966-              1973 ..   1975 -   1980 -
1966  1973   ~~         ~ 1975      19 77  j12 B-0             1977      1980     1985      16        94     18
NIATIONAL ACCOUNTS                  :9        23       T;--                                       2316                                          94      18
Amounts in 1973           Fric,s &Exch        R e~tes     AvrgAnulGohRae                      AsPcetoGD
Gross Domestic Product              4,37       ,4537'YPel3s'40                                              .7      9         8        ,As. 8ercen  of    2.0
Gains from Terms of Trade (-e)      - 504         0   1,769        1,432     1,809     2,941.                                        -13.0     18. 1     18'.0
Gross Dmestic  ncome                                             920 77  9'~7~~   1T20  TC734 7  9,9  13.1     10.5       7.9    1D0:0     W.-     T-O.0o
Import (incl. NFS)                    975     2,669   3,481        4,031     4,954     6,068      15.5   16.7       8.5       5.1      25.2    35.6      37.1
Exports       (import cak!acIty     1,171     2,057    3 643        3,222    4,135     6,205       8.4   19.1      14.0       5.4      30.3    37,3      38.0
Resource Gap                        -196     -712      -L.          -805       81l9      13         .       .-51                                17      -09
Consumption ExKpenditures           3,020     5,214   6,091        6,523     8.013     9,941       8.1   11.3       8.8       8.0      78.2    62.4      60.8
Investment    1  (ind. stocks)        647     2,872   3, 514       4,202     5,046     6,268      23.7   15.1       8.3       7.5     16.7     36.0      38.3
Domestic Savings                      842     2,260   3,677        3,397     4,227     6,405      15.2   17.0      13.5       7.7     21.8     37.6      39.2
National Savings                      807     2,414   3.S52        3,548     4,249     6,281      16.9   15.2      12.1       8.1      20.9    39.4      38.4
TRADE                                   L' at Carrent Frices                                                             As Percent of Total
Tmports                                                                                     -
Capital goods                                 965   1,699        2,174     3.143     4,760                                                   36.2      36.2
Other soods anf~ RPS                          1.704    3.000        3,940     5,551    8.407                                                   63.8      63.8
Total goods and NITS                          2,669   4.699        6,014     8,694    13,167                                                  100.0     100.0
Exrports
Ol anJ gas Droducts                        1,488   4,348        4,164     6.423    12,203                                                   88.4      90.6
ilhths~~~~ect.~~ and U~~~~S58              .5            R649     8_7      1.26
Total goods and NiTS                       T,-.7    4,YBiB                                                                                   11.6- ~~io,  10.0
Merchazndise Trade indices                               12.73  - 100
Export Price Index                 63,7     100.0     262.4       268.3     312.0   412.5      6.7     32.8        9.0     6.5
Import Price index                 98.5     100.0     135,0       149.2     175,5    217.0     0.3     15.1        7.8     7.0
Terms of Trade Index               64,7     100.0     194.4       179.8     177.8    190.1     6.4     15.5        1.1    -0,4
VALUEL ADDED BY SECTOR              Annusal Data at  1973~   Prices end Exchange Rates             Average Annual. Growth Rates       As Percent of Total
Agricu1tur.                                 5Yt34-    883         707      757      840        l.9      62        3511.9                      8.3      5,4
Hydrocarbons                     947      1,421    1,322       1,523     1,793    2,591        6.0     6.0       13.1             21.7       16.1     16,8
Industry                         862     1,874     2,242       2,485     3,220   4,459        10,1    14.5       11.5             19.7       27.4     28,9
Other Services                 2,,,W     I,j86     .3948    ~3224        5,495    7,5.5.8L4            11.3      11.1             46.7       48,2     48 9
Total                          4,367      7,471    8,196       9,138    11,266   15,435        8.0     10.8      11.1            !f7?       100.0    0~-
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                          As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)                                                                                                                  1973      1974
Current Receipts                          2,641     5,665                                                                          35,3       58.2
CretExpenditures                      1.459   _L79                                                                             19.5       18.1
Bugtry Savings                        1,182     3,916                                                                          15.8       40.1
Public Sector Investment                  2,717    4,666                                                                           36,3      47.8
US *million
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                     Actual         Eat.                            DETAIL ON                            Current         P end ER
As % Total Current Expend.)              1969     1973       1974                           PUBLIC SECTOR                         1970/73      % of Total1
Education                                 24.4     28,5       28.2                          INVESTMEN2T PROGRAM
Ct,hcr Social Services                    22,1     18.0       16,8                          Agrieulture (mncl.
Economic Services                         11.5     11.1       12.3                            irrigation:and vaterworks)          1,030             13.6
Administration and Defense                31.5     24.4       23.1                          gd'.icati0n                             644              8,5
Oth.er                                    10.5     18.0       19.6                          Industry and Energy                   4,059             53.8
To&al Gurrent Expenditures               100.0   too. 0      1oo.o                          Transport end Infrastructure            735              9. 8
Other                                 1.077             14.3
____________________________________________________________________   Total Expenditures                   7,546            1   7
,ELECTED) INDiICATORS                               1966-       17-        95-FINANICITh
(Ca-lculated from 3-year averaged data)             1973       1977      1980                 Current Budget Surplus                3,023             40.1
Average ICOR                                         3TT         5"      -31                  Pomest6c Borrowi.ng                   1,741             23,1
Import Elasticity                                    1,9         1.9      0,9                 Ey:  1    Eo%Mnfin elnet)             11                 1.
Marc,inal National Savings gate                    42.0        39.      44,4'                 Deposits with Treasury& Postal
system            530               7.0
Total VIneneng                        7,546            100.0
LA.XOR FORCE AND                                 Total Labor Force                                  Value Added Per Worker (1973 -       Prices & Exc. Rates)
-MTiY  PER WORKCER                                                        1966 -73           I    ..llas         Preto        vrg           1966 - 73
1966        1973     196       1973      Growth Rate          1966       1973       1966       1973       Grow-th Rate
Agriculture                     1,270      1,450      64         55           1.9              410       410          19         15             0,0
Hydro-arbons                       14          30       1         1          11.5           67,643    47,367       3.097      1,686            -4.9
Industry(.ther)                   156         402      8         15          14.5            5.526     4,662         253        166            -2.4
Service.                          560~        778.U  .28.       1224.8                       34.3      4,hL[&       .162..     .LfA.            3.4
Total                           2,000       2,660    100        100           4.2            2,164     2,810         100        100             3.7
not applicable         - nil or negligible              1! Projections are based on Sh    I9T-77                i
not available         --less than half the              -  for minimum   nyesatmeLnt a1  o tgoron          XPV       E   obalwpa          xettosi
bior  recent informat 4oitat            ..ets        .,oe        so   pa     x  caiosi
smallest unit shown               17   with respect tO 0th q-.       ty    prc



AlMX  1
Pege 3 of 3 pagee
bALWCE OF PAYENTSl ErrIE?NAL ASSLSTANCE AND Dl5T
lOococOtS in cilhlrn?  of U.S. 1oflars at -urrent pri.e.
Actual                         Estimated                                   ProJected
5UIS,RY RALA.9CE OF PAYMIETS
-p-rto (incl. NFS)                       1,142       1,006       1,440        2,057         4,918        4,813        6,289       7,257      13,464      24,505
T-cort- (incl. NFS)                      1,538       1,504       1,836        2,669         4,700        6,015        7,377       8,694      13,167      23,672
F:-_urco 9alance (SX-H)                                                                       218       -1,201       -1,088      -1,437         297         833
T   rest (net)                               5        - 16         - 29         -60           -46          -81         -179        -293        -667        -582
*thr                                      -151        - 75         - 46         -48           -53           -50        - 68        - 77        - 85         -117
'Wo-ors5 Rc.:ittanco                       178         192          224         214           241           266         290         313         387          543
f:rert Tr,,.r-era (ot)                      38         -60           22          64            95           95           95          95          95          95
V'zCe-on C-.ret Accounts                             -451'                                   45 -:22   -:7Z22   3B                          -            '77
_         _      _      _                  -X       -        32 -5           -        zz -2                          -           ~~:           , a&        -R/
Pci-rutc F-roct Thcn-treat                  46         -46           18          48            55            64          74          84         104           89
Official Capi:al Qrants                     17          199          16           3            -76            0           0           0           0            0
Public ImLT L..os
Di.borsmeflt.                             89          226         290       1,066           470         1,032       1,651      2,307         1,869       2,129
-lepavuonts                                o11                     _lD2        -La.          -288        _.8l         -M9         -677       1-1sl        -2- 61
Oc?t lisbarsomOnte                          16          154         180         912           -162          751       1,202      1,630           218       - 232
~~~:ct Di~~~~~~~~b- -t,  16  154  ISO      9     ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     Atcl                       etne
'C        --tal -rcosactions c.e.i.         77          154         184         116           -87                                       1810          AetV7           1973        19B 4
rhCioge in *et Resaves                      170         - 4        -173        -617           -550      1i6   AD DdBT SEVscI
' "Publi   Debt Out. h Disbbued  1918     2,072    2,252      3,164       3.143
19411 AND LtA?1 OOHITMEYTS
n f  Nih:ll .rAI.  & irant-like              17         199          16           3       3                Interest r  Publi  Dabt         11       26
Repay7mento cnl Public Debt      73       72       110        154
Thahic WILT Loans                                                                                         Total Public Debt Service        84       98       157        233        4Ar
IBRD                                      _                                    25           158         0th r Debt S.rmice (not)          -        -         -         -
7DA                                                                            -                        Total Debt Serfvie (ret)        84        98       157        233 al1
Ot,lrr
O-er NWatilate,al                                                                                     Burden on Export 84rsicnp ()
.S.-ser,s.e.,tr                                        *'          ''         244            92
S-pplier.                                       ..        .                  542           250         Public Debt Service            7.4       9.7      10.9       11.3
7inancial In-titutio-a                    ..          ..           ..       1,301            50         Total Debt ServIce              7.4      9.7      10.9       11.3
o,dns                                                                                                   TDS-Direct Dnvest. rne.       17.6      13.7      11.0       11 3         7,A
Pablic Loans n.e.i.
Total Public NH&T Loans                    ..                         .      --;                        Average Teros of Public Debt
Actual Debt   otstasrding on  . 31. 73                      _nt. as S Prior TYare DD&D      0.6      1.4       2.3        3.5         4.1
UXTERNAL DEBT                                   D b     d                    Nerent                         Amort. as %'Prior Tear DD&1     3.8      3.8       5.3        6.8         e
'lorld Balik                                       t. X                       u. 
IDA                                                ---                        ---                       rBRD Debt Out. & Disbured
Other %btlitiateral                                4.8                        0.2                         5  as S Public Debt 0D                     .       0.6         0.3         O.5
G-vsrcconts                                      824.0                       26.0                         '      u   Public Debt Seice
Boppli ro                                      1,153.0                      36.4
*inanc:.i Uc".: z.aciocs                       1,045.0                      33.0                        IDA Debt Out. & Dikbursed
Po.do                                            78.7                        2.5                            aa S Public Debt O&D
Pablic  btats n.e.i                              50.5                         1.6                           am S Public Debt Serviec
.otal. Public NhLT Debt                        3,16T   'TX1f1
(th-er VAL- Debts
Sh..rt-t-r De-t (diSb. onlv)
cot applocable                                                  e   staff etiDte
not *-- Iable                                                    -  ail or negligible
...  ro- ~la:3b1e separately                                         --  less tbhn half th*
b -  dclad in total                                            aellest unit ebown



ANN X( II
Page 1 of 3 pages
TrE STATUS OF BAK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
A.  STATMENT OF BiANK OANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at April 30, 1975)
Loan or                                                            US$ million
Credit                                                   Amount (less cancellations)
Number      Year         Borrower             Purpose     Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
Tlhree loans fully disbursed                             80.5
9102 AL     1 973        The Democratic and   Highways   18.5               1G.5
Popular Republic of
Algeria
913 AL      1973         The Democratic and   Education    6.O               6.0
Popular Republic of
Algeria
995 AL      1974         The Democratic and   Port        70.0              70.0
Popular Republic of
Algeria
996 AL      1974         Railways-SNCFA       Railways   49.0               49.0
997 AL      1974         Power-S'IELGAZ       Power      38.5               36.3
TOTAL                                                262.5              177.8
of which has been repaid                         76.4
Total now outstanding                                186.1
AmVount sold                               34.8
of which has been repaid              34.5        0.3
Total nof held by Bank                               185.8
Total undisbursed                                    177.8              177.8
A.. STATEMlXJT OF IFOC INVES TMTTS - None (not a member)



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan 912-AL    Highway ProJect; US$18.5 million Loan of June 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The highway improvement works and procurement of project equipment
are progressing well. Due to the Government reassessment of highway develop-
ment priorities, the preinvestment studies were delayed. However, the coor-
dinating consultants are now appointed, feasibility study consultants will be
selected shortly and the studies are expected to start about September 1975.
Loan 913-AL    Education Project; US$6.0 million Loan of June 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Implementation of this project initially suffered delays due to
ineffective liaison with the Bank. The Government has now appointed a liaison
officer and communications were improved. No withdrawal applications have yet
been presented to the Bank.
Loan 995-AL    Port Project; US$70.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Work is progressing satisfactorily, and consultants are supervis-
ing construction. The Loan only recently become effective following the con-
clusion of a special agreement between the Algerian Government and Kreditan-
stalt fur Wiederaufbau, to which effectiveness of the Bank loan was linked.
In May a disbursement application for US$11.6 million was received; it is
presently being processed in the Bank.
Loan 996-AL    Railway Project; US$49.0 million Loan of June 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The physical execution of the project is being carried out on time.
Maintenance of locomotives and rolling stock has still to be reorganized in
order to achieve agreed operating targets. Consulting studies financed under
the loan should help SNCFA to improve the availability of locomotives and
rolling stock in the near future.
1f   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of reports in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3 pages
Loan 997-AL    Power rj    _ct; US$385 million Loan of June 10, 1974;
ClosingDate: December 31, 1978..
The project is showing reasonable progress, although some delays
have occurred in evaluation ar.d award of main contracts. Difficulties have
arisen between the borrower and the management consultants which may lead
to a transfer of part of the assignments to other consultants.



ANNEX HII
Page 1 of 2 pages
ALGERIA - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (RURAL DEVELOPMENT)
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                The Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Amount:                   US$8.0 million
Terms:                    Repayabl.e over 10 years, including a 3 year period
of grace at 8-1/2 percent.
Project Description:     The project provides over a three-year period
technical assistance and associated equipment to
plan, prepare, test and begin to implement the
following subprojects: (a) integrated development
of the steppe zone of Ksar Chellala; (b) integrated
development of a poor, densely populated mountainous
region in the daira of Arris in the wilaya of Aures;
(c) development of an agricultural extension service;
and (d) assistance to the Banque Nationale d'Algerie
(BNA) to improve the technical capacity of the
institution to provide agricultural credit.
Estimated Cost:                               US$ thousand
(for detailed breakdown,             Local     Foreign     Total
see Annex IV)
Technical Services           1,769     5,323      7,092
Associated equipment         1,053       755      1,808
Subtotal                2,822     6,078      8,900
Contingencies                  676     1,922      2,598
Grand total             3,498     8,000     11,498
Financing Plan:                               US$ million
IBRD              8,000
Govt. of Algeria  3,498
11,498
Estimated Disbursements:                           1975      1976      1977
Annual                        2,500     2,500     3,000
Cumulative                    2,500     5,000     8,000



-.NN.4rX Il`
Page 2 of 2 pages
Procurement
Arrangements:            The procurement of vehicles for Algerian staff will
be on the basis of ICB but limited to firms that
have service facilities in Algeria. Associated
equipment vould be procured on the basis of local
competitive bidding.
Consultants:             All contracts for consulting services would be sub-
ject to prior approval of the Bank. The foreign
experts for all four subprojects would be provirded
by consulting firms. The advisor for the project
roordination unit would be recruited on an in-
dividual basis.
Experts for the subprojects would be provided as
follows:
Estimated Man-
Years over
Algerian   Foreign     3-year Period
Integrated
Steppe De-
velopment        7          5            36
Integrated
Mountain
Development    11           6            51
Agricultural
Extension      12           9            63
Agricultural
Credit
Study Group    23           3            50
Total      52          24           200
In addition about 146 man-months of short-term con-
sultancy services by foreign specialists, 35 graduates
of the Instituts de Technologie Moyenne d'Agricul-
ture, and periodic assistance of topographic and
water resources survey teams would be provided.
Rate of Return:          Not applicable.



Ii hi  sv
~~d, (Ir -4:1 I A ~ ~ ~  ~       f1U7 I
ECHIrVCAL ASSISTANC.V11C   ,TCT (IJ'.L DtSJELO?MpT)
.3STL4ATEMD -R0OJECr COSTS
DA (000)                     us$ (coo)
For-                        For-
Local      eign     Total    Local     eign     Total
TcThnical Services
(Including local qnd
_oreigr. personnel)   7,375    22,191    29,566    1,769     5j323   7,392
Trqnsport             2,088     1,272      3,360      501       305     306
Or!ice Services FE
*Emuipment                      -       1,88      1452        -      ? 52
Dcr.onstration and
Fxperiment.atioh       7     1,876     2,293      100        50       5
Eouipment
Total             11,764    25,339    37,103    2,822     6,078     ?l9)Y
Continge encies
Price (14 percent) 1,109    4,061     5,170      266        97L   1,?I,O
Physicea
(15 percent)     1,709     3,952     5,661      hlo       948   1,^3
Total Contingencies   2j818     8,013     1,0831      676     1,922   2,523
TOTAL PFOJECT COT   14,582    33,352    47.,934   3s,98      8,000  11,?.9$



I



I B R D  11465
sedOhico~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~deI1
o .: .         %   . p    :
A         )v~~~~~~ECNIA ASSITANE PRJEC
INTEURATED STEPPE   V LO E  SU-R E T '  '       '  MILS'  i 
C 'erchel I~~                      I    I    I    I   
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETA LOATO FO THEdb ,     AGRCUTRA ESENIO SUN-PRJECT
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D TINA TE/ ZOE TO BE IN\UE
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~.OMN EOUNAPVi
4 Ain S rPJTI ANA           GA  E RAIAAYS
.A( .-r  NARROW DAERLWAYS
._ z                              srAI NATION   oAs
C                                         -<  INTEGRNATIDOUNTAINDVLOMN AIR-POROETSt5 050
s                                          *  SEONA RY AIPORTS                             >,'0        \/       e s
*INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIS  '   ,   PAId.DrDA A, l 
o            -.- INTERN ATIONAL BOUNDARIES >< to,/ .... IhOowS oK 1X .... s * rZ t I M A L I { N I G E R o C H A D t G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



