Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16528
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON-FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
[LOAN 2776-TU]
APRIL 30, 1997
EC1/2HR
Human Resources Sector Operating Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVAI EN FS
At Appraisal:     100 TL   =   USS .14984
US$1   =   667.35TI.
At Completion: 10,000 TL        Us$ .13437
US$1   =   74A2_2TI,
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DGTVE   -  Directorate of Girls' Tchlinical and Vocational Education
EA3PH   -  East Asia Population anid Human Resources Operations Division
EC I  -  Europe and Central Asia Region, Department I
ECI/2HR   -  Human Resources Division for EC Departments I and 2
ECA   -  Europe and Central Asia Region
EMTPM   -  Public Sector Management & Information Technology Team
GOVT   -  Republic of Turkey
HDDED   -  Human Development Department, Education
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR   -  Implementation Completion Report
IDA   -  International Development Association
METARGEM   -  Vocational Education Research Institute for MONE
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
MONE  -  Ministry of National Education
NFEI  -  Non-Formal Education Institute
NFTI  -  Non-Formal Training Institute
NFVT   -  Non-Formal Vocational Training
PCU   -  Project Coordination UJniit
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
RMT   -  World Bank Resident Mission Turkey
SAR   -  Staff Appraisal Report
SERCO   -  {Full Name}
SOE  -  Statement of Expenditures
TA   -  Technical Assistance
TOR   -  Terms of Reference
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Director: Kenneth G. Lay, ECI DR
Division Chief: Ralph W. Harbison, EC1/2HR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON-FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2776-TU)
Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART 1. PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT FROM IBRD'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives ...............................................1.........I
B.  Achievement of Objectives ................................................................                  2
C.  Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation .......................................................3
D.  Project Cost Changes .................................................................6
E.  Project Sustainability .................................................................6
F.  Bank Performance .................................................................7
G.  Borrower Performance .................................................................7
H.  Assessment of Outcome .................................................................8
1.   Future Operations .................................................................                        8
J.   Kev Lessons Learned .................................................................8
PART 11. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table i:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:       Related Bank Loans
Table 3:       Project Timetable
Table 4:       Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Appraised and Actual
Table 5:       Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:       Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7A:   Project Costs
Table 7B:   Project Financing
Table 8:       Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9        Bank Resou.-c.es, Staff Ir p)uts
Table 10:   Bank Resources, N4issior s
Axpendix A:   Borrower contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON-FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT (LN 2776-TU)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Non
Formal Vocational Training Project in Turkey, for which Loan 2776-TU in the
amount of US$58.5 Million equivalent was approved on January 6, 1987, and
made effective on April 2, 1987.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1995, its original closing date.
Final disbursement took place on May 9, 1996, at which time a balance of
US$0.5 Million was canceled. Earlier, an amount of US$3.6 Million was
canceled since this was not expected to be utilized. A total of US$54.4 Million
of the Loan was disbursed, or 93 %.
This ICR was prepared by Patricia Kleysteuber, Task Manager
(EC1/2HR), with the support of Judith De Costa and Danelle Howell
(EC1/2HR). Mr. Friedrich Konigshofer (Sr. Operations Officer, EMTPM), and
Mr. Ihsan Sezal, (Education Development Consultant) prepared background
reports which are available in ECA Files. The ICR was reviewed by George
Zaidan, Projects Adviser, ECI. Peer reviewers whose comments were
incorporated in the report were Bruno Laporte, (Principal Education Specialist,
HDDED), and Michael Mertaugh, Neeta Sirur. and Brad Herbert (EC1/2HR).
This ICR is based on the results of a Completion Mission in April 1996,
which visited a representative sample of schools, and on materials available in
ECA files. Mr. Konigshofer and Ms. Sahmali (RMT) participated in the
Completion mission and provided comments on the draft report. The Borrower
(Ministry of National Education) prepared its own evaluation report, and the
report's conclusions are included verbatim as Appendix A of this report. The
Borrower also contributed to the preparation of this report by providing data and
information for the report.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON-FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT (LOAN 2536-TU)
Summary
i.    Introduction  This project was one of a series of projects in secondary and post secondary education
for the development of vocational education in Turkey. This project was preceded by Loan 2536-TU also
supporting secondary vocational education (Industrial Schools Project, closed Dec. 1994), and Loan 2399-TU
supporting post-secondary technical training (Industrial Training Project closed Dec. 1990). It was followed by
two projects appraised in the late 1980's and currently under implementation -- Ln. 2922-TU supporting the
further expansion of post-secondary technician training, and Ln. 3192-TU supporting quality improvements in
primary and secondary education.
ii.    Proiect Obiectives. The project had two objectives: (a) to increase and improve the supply of well-
trained labor for manufacturing industries, through (i) improved quality of non-formal vocational training
programs and enhanced relevance to the labor market needs, and (ii) expansion of enrollment in vocational
education and training programs with an increase of about 110,000 trained workers per annum; and (b) to
improve employment and income generating opportunities for disadvantaged groups with little education and
training, through (i) employment of a significantly higher percentage of graduates of non-formal vocational
training institutes, and (ii) creation of about 16,000 self-employment opportunities, mainly for women engaged
in income generating activities in the home.
iii.    Evaluation of Objectives. The project's first objective supported the long-term strategy of supplying
better trained manpower for manufacturing industries in order to raise productivity and growth of
manufacturing output. The Government gave priority to increasing manufactured exports, which depends on
the availability of better-educated and skilled manpower. The proposed project also responded to demands
from industrialists for skilled technicians and craftsmen. This translated into the need for an effective formal
and non-formal vocational education system to improve the knowledge, skills, and attitudes of an under-
educated population. The project's second objective supported the development of increased earning potential
and employability for the less advantaged socio-economic groups. This objective responded well to the Bank's
poverty alleviation mandate addressing the needs of the disadvantaged -- the unskilled unemployed, adult
women trying to enter the labor market, or the long-term unemployed who are also poor and unskilled. The
project's objectives were appropriate and supported the Government's development strategy for the sector.
iv.    Proiect Outcome. The project is rated overall as satisfactory. It substantially achieved its physical
objectives and partly achieved its institutional development objectives at completion. The quality of non-
formal vocational education and training and its relevance to labor market needs improved significantly, in
particular, compared to the pre-project status of schools. The project supported 607 schools, more than
twice the 268 schools expected at appraisal. Furthermore, computer classrooms were provided for an
additional 341 schools under a fourth phase using cost savings. Technical assistance services and fellowship
training also exceeded appraised targets. The production of new technology textbooks fell slightly short of
target but nevertheless made a significant contribution to the acute shortage of adequate textbooks. The final
phase of the project included a highly successful integrated pre-school education program in conjunction
with adult education for mothers, targeting low-income families; this component fits well with the project
objectives as the program focused on building self-confidence in women and their role in supporting their
children's education. Finally, in terms of employment of graduates, all students enrolled in Apprenticeship
Training Centers are employed, and graduates from the Commerce and Tourism Schools are the most
successful in obtaining employment in the growing service sector in Turkey -- and these two groups make
up over 50%  of  the project supported schools; other more narrow  vocational specializations for



- II -
manufacturing trades have had low employment rates in a job related to the student's respective program
specialization. Regarding institutional development impact, the Ministry of National Education (MONE) did
acquire expertise to respond better to training needs for emerging labor markets, in particular. under the
Directorate of Girls' Technical and Vocational Education (DGTVE). The project did not achieve its
institutional development objective to specifically strengthen the MONE's Non-Formal Education Institute
(NFEI) to be able to update vocational programs; however. the staff training and materials development that
took place under this component has benefited a new entity of the MONE now responsible for this work.
v.     Proiect Costs. Actual project costs totaled US$72.16 Million. There was a marginal overrun of 1.5 %
in local costs due to a greater amount of school renovation undertaken by the MONE. Loan expenditures had
an underrun of US$4.1 Million, or 7% of the Loan which was canceled. Although the MONE requested
informally an extension of the Loan to use the remaining funds, the Bank recommended against an extension
due to changes in strategy to strengthen and reform vocational education in Turkey. A reallocation of funds
was made under a Loan amendment in July 1994 to increase support for improved school performance and
project implementation and to include financing for expansion of the Mother/Child Development Program, a
program targeted to low-income families.
vi.    Bank Performance. The Bank was responsive and sensitive to national development priorities in the
design of project objectives, and the project effectively supported the country development strategy. The
project inputs were required to modernize the knowledge and skills of the labor force and significantly improve
the quality of vocational education and responsiveness to emerging job markets. The project is recognized to
have contributed to achieving these goals by project beneficiaries. The project was adequately prepared
although it was ambitious in expecting institutional change to take place in a very weak agency and
overestimated the implementation capacity of the MONE and the local school level. Although the project
suffered from inefficiencies during implementation. the Governrnent and the Bank were cognizant of these
problems and repeatedly addressed these shortcomings. As the project was fully implemented and is
sustainable, it is considered to have been on balance satisfactory in preparation and implementation.
vii.   Borrower Performance. The MONE and government maintained their full commitment to project
objectives throughout project implementation and remain committed to project sustainability.  The MONE
implemented the project as appraised which led to the achievement of objectives of the project. The MONE
and the Government continue to be committed to improving the employability of their secondary school
graduates and to providing job related skills to the unemployed. Where the MONE has remained weak is in
responding to the need for swift project implementation in the use of Bank funds, and being more open to
contracting services external to the Ministry. On balance, the borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory
based on its successful completion of the project and its commitment to project sustainability.
Summary of key lessons learned for future operations:
viii.   There are several lessons learned from the implementation of this project.
School Management The importance of effective school management is often overlooked or underestimated.
School managers are not selected for their leadership or managerial skills, and tend to stagnate in their
positions while not being required to update their managerial and pedagogical knowledge and skills; thus,
many school managers have little initiative, they do not provide incentives to teachers, and they also lack
outreach skills to interact with the community and local businesses. In the Project, school managers often did
not have the ability to select and run appropriate programs as was envisaged. Lessons: Education projects
should include substantive training for school managers and encourage periodic assessments and rotation of
school managers on a competitive basis.



- jI jj
Adjustment in Project Design. Education projects need to adjust to emerging needs in society, discoveries in
science, technology, and pedagogy, and changes in labor markets; they can not be static in design over a long
implementationperiod. Although adjustments were made to the project during implementation, it was difficult
to incorporate timely change and encourage innovativeness. partly because of the rigidity of the public sector
and partly due to the perceived requirement to adhere to an agreed project on both the side of the Borrower
and the Bank. Lesson: The borrower and the Bank need to apply moreflexibility in adjusting the project design
and simplifyingproceduresfor approval of changes consistent with the project's broad objectives and scope.
Apprenticeship Program. In retrospect, it is recognized that the apprenticeship program should have evolved
with greater general education content, which is what apprentices are lacking, rather than strengthening hands-
on skills. Although the Project did not aim to reform the apprenticeship program, the MONE is aware of the
serious need to do so. Apprentices are almost exclusively primary school leavers with five years of education
or less, joining the program at age 14. Between the ages of I I and 14, primary school leavers cannot work
and cannot join the apprenticeship program; this gap for primary school leavers needs to be addressed since it
is a serious problem for children who are put to work illegally at a very young age and have little chance of
returning to formal schooling in later years. The apprenticeship system encourages employers to hire youth
with little education at low wages, and their current training inhibits career growth and job mobility.
Apprentices should receive more education on core subjects like math, and science, and language arts,
preferably through applied learning and other teaching methods designed for academically weaker students
who are often from low socio-economic backgrounds. Lesson: Periodic assessments, more frequent than a
mid-tern review, should take place to assess the sustained validity of the project design and to make the
necessary adjustments.
Girls Vocational Schools. It is recognized that there are merits to offering single-gender education due to
proven benefits in higher academic performance and higher enrollment of girls. In Turkey, however, single-
gender schools are justified on an occupational basis, reinforcing traditional gender stereotypes. Field visits
show that girls schools are generally well run and have motivated teachers, and that girls are benefiting from
completing secondary vocational and technical education; furthermore, there is a demand for the more
culturally appropriate single-gender schools. Girls vocational schools have also responded to increased demand
for job training by women who are being forced into the labor market due to difficult economic times, in
particular in rural areas; given their gender focus, these schools have been successful in attracting women into
skills training in a non-threatening environment. Lesson. Overall, girls vocational schools have verv positive
results in encouraging school attendance by girls and encouraging girl's and women 's employment; however,
their programs should not be justified on the basis of gender-specific occupations.
Decentralization Although the project was designed to conform with the centralized structure of the MONE,
in retrospect, the project may have been more successful if it had been managed and administered at the
regional and local levels. The project supported reliance and ownership at the central level of the MONE.
Much of the daily decision making continues to be made at the central level and this overburdens the central
level with administrative tasks, takes away from policy and quality control functions of the central level, and
weakens the identity, ownership, and self-reliance of the school and its staff. Lesson: To succeed in
strengthening individual schools, ownership of the project must be at the school level to be able to empower
managers and teachers, while leaving central authorities to enforce qualirv control and conduct policy planning
and research.
Project Management. The Bank repeatedly expressed concerns regarding the need for effective project management
and implementation. Finding the appropriate mix of autonomy and integration for project implementation management
requires an informed choice about what is the best project management option to achieve outcomes for the
beneficiaries, the project, and the implementing agency. Institutional development objectives are sometimes confused
with the need for effective project implementation management, leading to a weak project management structure with
insufficiently qualified staff and inadequate resources. Lesson: The borrowver and the Bank must undertake an analYsis



- iv -
of options for project management during project preparation, and make an informed choice of the correct project
implementation managentent structure given constraints to achieve the project outcomes itn a timelyfashion.
ix.    Plans for Future Proiect Operations and Sustainability.   The MONE is committed to project
sustainability as evidenced by follow-up and project school surveys after Loan closing and its agreement to
maintain a project coordinator in the PCU. The MONE has agreed to allocate a budget for overseeing the
project's operational phase.  Since project schools are expected to be continually over-enrolled to meet
demands for secondary education and adult education, the project benefits are expected to be sustained and to
increase greatly for several years to come. There are some risks that certain of the more sophisticated project
equipment may not be repaired if needed due to lack of knowledge and resources at the local school level.



PART I. PERFORMANCE ASSESSMIENT FROM IBRD'S PERSPECTIVE
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    Statement of Objectives The Non-Formal Vocational Training (NFVT) Project had two objectives as
stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) dated November 12, 1986:
(a) to increase and improve the supply of well-trained labor for manufacturing industries, through
(i) improved quality of non-formal vocational training programs and enhanced relevance to the labor
market needs; and
(ii) expansion of enrollment in vocational education and training programs with an increase of about
110,000 trained workers per annum
(b) to improve employment and income generating opportunities for disadvantaged groups with little
education and training, through
(i) employment of a significantly high percentage of graduates of non-formal vocational training
institutes; and
(ii) creation of about 16,000 self-employment opportunities. mainly for women engaged in income
generating activities in the home.
2.     Evaluation of Obiectives. The project's first objective fit well into a long-term strategy to supply better
trained manpower for manufacturing industries in order to increase productivity and growth of manufacturing
output. Government gave priority to increasing manufactured exports, which would depend on the availability
of better-educated and skilled manpower. The proposed project also responded to demands from industrialists
for skilled technicians and craftsmen. This translated into the need for an effective formal and non-formal
vocational education system to improve the knowledge, skills, and attitudes of an under-educated population.
Vocational education would also compensate for a low level of compulsory education which remains at only
five years -- in 1984 when the project was prepared statistics showed that 50% of the registered urban
unemployed had primary education or less. Considering also that expansion of the secondary education system
has not kept up with population growth, school to work linkages were, and continue to be, of top importance in
the government's agenda. Thus, it was appropriate for the project to support the Government's focus on
provision of quality training linked to employment and increased productivity.
3.     The project's second objective supported the development of increased earnings potential and
employability for the less advantaged socio-economic groups. This objective responded well to the Bank's
poverty alleviation mandate addressing the needs of the disadvantaged -- the unskilled unemployed, adult
women trying to enter the labor market, or the long-term unemployed who are also poor and un-skilled. The
non-formal vocational training institutes are well placed within the public sector to assist those who are trying
to enter the formal labor market and lack skills and attitudes to make that transition. It is difficult to address
the needs of the unskilled unemployed, which usually includes migrants, housewives, early school drop outs,
and seasonal workers; the network of public training facilities of the MONE responds to these needs, including
training in entrepreneurship and self employment opportunities. Economic reforms have for some time been
having a negative impact on income distribution leaving the unskilled unemployed behind, many of which are
migrants from rural to urban areas with expectations for better employment opportunities; therefore, it was
appropriate to recognize the importance of skills training for increasing employment opportunities, especially
for women who were in transition from a traditional agricultural life or home life to a more modern urban
lifestyle. Although this project was not appraised to include a poverty alleviation and gender focus for the



development of women, in retrospect, the project visibly had such a focus and merits recognition in this
regard.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
4.     Proiect Outcomes: The project is rated to have substantially achieved its physical objectives and
partially achieved its institutional development objectives at completion.  The quality of non-fornal
vocational education and training and its relevance to labor market needs improved significantly, in
particular, compared to the pre-project status of these schools.  Many vocational schools should be
commended for they have made impressive use of resources to provide a solid vocational education, and one
is left with the impression that education is taking place. and that values and skills are being acquired in
preparation for the world of work, other schools are less dynamic and may leave an impression of need for
improvement, initiative, and leadership which is sometimes lacking due to certain complacency at the local
level that comes from a centrally regulated and hierarchical system and to lack of community advocacy.
The project did complete and exceed appraised targets for support to schools, and all schools are
successfully fully-enrolled or over-enrolled. The project supported 607 schools, more than twice the 268
schools expected at appraisal. Expansion of enrollment in the original project schools also exceeded
appraisal targets by 20%  with 130,967 students enrolled in project-supported programs.  Furthermore,
computer classrooms were provided for an additional 341 schools under a fourth phase using cost savings.
In terms of technical assistance for program development, a total of 214 person-months were provided under
the project, or 69% over appraisal estimates. Fellowship training for teacher and MONE managers and
school inspectors added up to 801 months, slightly exceeding the appraised 790 months. New technology
textbooks fell slightly short of target, with 32 out of 44 technical textbooks published under the project, but
nevertheless this component made a significant contribution to the acute shortage of adequate textbooks.
The final phase of the project included a highly successful integrated pre-school education program in
conjunction with adult education for mothers, targeting low-income families and offered through adult
training centers of the MONE. This Mother/Child education program trained 1,751 mother-child pairs. as
well as well as 143 teachers for the delivery of this 6-month program. Finally, in terms of employment of
graduates of project-supported programs, it was not possible to calculate employment rates as over 50% of
project expenditures were incurred in the last project year. with most programs being 3-year programs,
however, all students enrolled in Apprenticeship Training Centers are employed, and graduates from the
Commerce and Tourism Schools are the most successful in obtaining employment in the growing service
sector in Turkey -- these two groups making over 50% of the project supported schools. Other more
narrow vocational specializations for manufacturing trades have had low employment rates in a job related
to the student's respective program specialization.
One concludes that the project achieved its most important development objective to increase employment
opportunities for the most socially disadvantaged youths and unskilled adults as well as promoting
employment opportunities for women to join the labor market.
5.    Institutional Development:  The Project achieved some of its institutional development objectives
improving the MONE capacity to better respond to training needs from changing labor markets.  In
particular, institutional development did take place in the Directorate of Girls' Technical and Vocational
Education (DGTVE); quality improvements for girls' vocational schools included: school management
workshops for 78 school directors and assistant directors and 8-month job shadowing experiences in the UK
for two central managers: technology education workshops for 66 teachers; modular curriculum
development, including in-service teacher training programs;  promotion of project objectives through
lectures on quality improvements, including advanced teaching/learning methods; and establishment of
networks between teachers, industry, and the community. Institutional development was successful under
the DGTVE because of the direct involvement of the stakeholder who had full responsibility for
implementation.  Visits to selective schools during the completion mission verified the success of the
programs of the DGTVE in outreach efforts to assist women in the community to consider job-related



- 3 -
training and employment. Overall. developments in modular curricula in the MONE and in skills training
for women are very positive results from the project and have opened schools to the community where they
were closed before. In particular. these programs are at their best to help women gain confidence to enter
the formal labor market.
6.     The project did not achieve its institutional development objective to directly strengthen the Non-
Formal Education Institute (NFEI) to be able to respond proactively to emerging labor market needs by
updating vocational programs and through continued in-service teacher training. However, indirectly, the
Project benefited a new vocational education research center, METARGEM, which was created as the project
started. METARGEM quickly overshadowed the weak NFEI with greater autonomy and resources, and with
the full support of the MONE. METARGEM also took much of the trained staff from the NFEI, and benefited
from modular curricula and materials made available through the Project. Furthermore, some of the NFEI's
responsibilities, mainly the maintenance of occupational standards and testing which were to be developed
under the project, have also been officially assigned to an independent commission associated with the
Ministry of Labor, which is supported by the Bank under the Employment and Training Project (Ln.3571-
TU). The Project, however, was successful in supporting the development of new programs, with support
from technical assistance. As the NFEI continues to be a weak agency, with limited staff resources, and with
little support from MONE management, the MONE is reviewing the roles of these two agencies and would
consider a possible merge which could result in efficiency gains and a well-recognized stronger entity. In
conclusion on the achievement of development objectives, we can say the project achieved its most
important objective to increase employment opportunities and thus improve the socio-economic status of the
most socially disadvantaged youths and unskilled adult as well as promoting employment opportunities for
women to join the labor market
7.     Regarding institutional development in the area of project management, it is noteworthy that the
PCU became much more effective in its last project year, with expertise developed in project management,
procurement, and accounting, better integrating consultants with PCU staff. An important lesson for the
Ministry is learning how to better use and work with contracted staff, a lesson that is important for the
future development of the sector; regrettably, these realizations came a bit late for the PCU when many
inefficiencies of working with the schools could have been averted. The last year of the project was overall
the most successful of the project in all aspects -- greater efficiency in planning and organization of
computer programs for 341 schools nationally with fully successful use of equipment by students and
teachers, positive results from institutional development in the DGTVE and the PCU, and a successful early
child development program, all having high educational and developmental returns.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
8.     The major factors or constraints affecting implementation are explained below. We note, however,
that these factors became clear only in retrospect, and that they should be taken into consideration by both
the borrower and the Bank in the design and implementation of future projects. Also, this section should be
read recognizing that the project was implemented substantively as appraised and completed within its
projected implementation period of nine years; the comments do not mean to take away credit due to the
Borrower who has ownership of the project and remained committed to its implementation.
9.     Sector Policies. Part of the difficulty of the project was the fragmentation in vocational education,
which mirrored the structure of the MONE. In retrospect. the project probablv should not have supported the
existing vocational education system and structure which has much duplication and inefficiencies. The project
was not able to bring improvement to the overall management of vocational education, but the project was not
specifically designed to make structural changes for improved efficiency; however, the system's inefficiencies
become more evident as the system expands in a rapidly changing work environment. Many of the policies
which drive the current vocational education system date back to the 1940's and are thus in need of



- 4-
modernization, in particular, program specialization and pedagogy.   The MONE strongly believes in a
vocational focus for its secondary age students in response to a need for a smooth school to work transition,
and due to restrictions in access to higher education. Some inefficiencies which prevent better use of resources
include: (i) fragmentation with separate departments being responsible for vocational education and training for
the 14-19 age cohort which makes up over 50% of post-primary school enrollment in the public school
system; (ii) poor school management with almost no accountability for quality education, and few incentives
for motivating teachers, compounded by weak capacity at the central level for quality sector management and
development; (iii) an oversupply of narrow vocational specializations relevant to the job market, with
fragmented management, teachers, and students, supported by an entrenched vocational higher education
system which trains teachers for narrow specializations: (iv) recognizing that girls vocational schools are
successful for promoting women's employment and increase enrollment of girls schooling in a culturally
appropriate environment, the specific gender specialization they offer in traditional domestic occupations
reinforces gender stereotypes; and (v) outdated pedagogy not responsive to the skills needed for today's labor
markets requiring critical thinking, analytical, and problem solving skills, higher order language skills, math
and science knowledge, computer technology skills, and communication skills. These inefficiencies affect the
operation and quality of schooling.
10.    Local School Participation and Local Capacity. The project was designed in phases where schools
would be selected to participate in the project through needs surveys. Although surveys were conducted using
agreed criteria, based on a representative sample of schools visited, it appears that the selection was done more
on the basis of supply rather than demand to introduce a program at a school, and more influenced by politics
in a highly centralized Ministry which allocates resources rather than by individual planning at the school and
community levels.  Surveys were often done through the mail as funds for local travel were unavailable to
either central MONE staff or PCU staff. Consequently, some programs were launched in schools where there
was little interest or need.  In several schools there was lack of ownership often compounded by lack of
technical knowledge and of modern pedagogy. A key weakness affects school planning and quality is the lack
of school management training and accountability for headmasters. The MONE should embark on a serious
effort of assessment of the knowledge and performance of school managers, including efforts to empower and
appoint qualified managers with updated knowledge, skills and attitudes to operate better quality schools and to
optimize the use of resources.
11.    Weak Institutional Capacity and Centralization   One of the main factors affecting project
implementation negatively was the managerially and technically weak nature of the centralized Ministry
administration. The centralized power in the Ministry hinders initiative at the provincial and school level --
while the central level can do little to help the local level, in turn local schools often expect guidelines and
support from their Directors at the central level. This inaction on both ends is detrimental to the education
system, and it is hoped that through the Government's new decentralization focus a change will take place in
the education sector from a generally passive to a more proactive and dynamic system. Action at the local
school level is also hindered by lack of technical knowledge both in subject areas and cutting-edge pedagogy
of teaching and of managerial staff. Like any organization or entity, a school can be as much as its leadership
sets out to achieve; thus, the introduction of a system of incentives to strengthen school management and
develop leadership, initiative, and accountability at the local school level would greatly benefit the school
system, while at the same time strengthening the central supervisory and advisory level.
12.    Project Complexity and Implementation    Although the project was well prepared and project
management and implementation arrangements were appraised carefully, in reality the mechanisms for project
implementation did not work as envisaged given the difficult working environment in a large centralized yet
weak bureaucracy of the public sector. Project implementation was to be headed by a Deputy Undersecretary,
a Management Committee, and a PIU (renamed PCU), with the project being national in scope and including a
variety of schools and programs for both formal secondary vocational education as well as adult non-formal



training. During implementation there were several deputy undersecretaries responsible for the different
departments implementing the project each claiming ownership over the various schools they oversee. Having
too many players stalled the project often, and the large number of programs and schools nationally made it
difficult to implement centrally. especially given the lack of supervisory ability of the MONE. Although great
efforts were made to provide technical assistance in project implementation to the general directorates. this
seemed to have been successful only in the Directorate for Girls' Vocational Education (DGVTE). In theory
the project should have been implemented more quickly and smoothly because there was great need for the
project inputs and constant support of the borrower throughout implementation. but in practice implementation
reverted to the pace of the local environment which owned and implemented the project.
13.   Instructor Training A critical component of the project was the ability to provide ongoing in-service
training to teachers, instructors, and school managers. As this important component was placed with the
NFEI, one of the weakest arms of the MONE. very little was achieved through the Institute. In retrospect. the
target of 30% retraining of instructors was overambitious given capacity constraints, and it may have been
more appropriate to strengthen and encourage cooperation with the MONE's In-Service Training Department
responsible for this task. Economic austerity measures also affected negatively in-service training as this is the
first activity which suffers budgetary cuts. Focus on the importance of provision and promotion of in-service
training should continue as it is critical to improving the quality of education. The current perception that in-
service training is not necessary, or that it is an admission of incompetence needs to be changed through special
campaigns aimed at changes in attitude, in particular, for school managers and central managerial staff.
14.   Implementation Delays. The project suffered a two year delay in start-up mainly due to uncertainty
regarding the establishment of a joint Project Implementation Unit for the two Bank- financed projects,
including the Industrial Schools Project (Ln. 2536-TU), and also due to delays in awarding the contract for the
technical assistance services envisaged under the project. The quality of project management also caused
delays due to lack of adequate resources for project implementation and shortage of qualified staff in the
MONE. Unfortunately, the follow-up project with the MONE (National Education Development Project, Ln.
3192-TU), also suffered a similar two-year delay in start-up due to complications in the same areas. Indecision
on the part of the MONE management compounded by political influences and internal inefficiencies worked to
delay most contract awards and, consequently, delayed the delivery of project inputs to beneficiaries. It is now
recognized that to counter these inefficiencies, projects need to be shorter, with specifically focused
interventions, detailed implementation plans, and short-term targets or milestones. It is also important to note
that commitment to implementation on the part of the borrower works better for short-term activities providing
a good incentive politically and good motivation to staff who are commended for visible results. Also, long-
term institutional development objectives can be achieved through short term success which raise awareness
and expectations. Despite these delays and inefficiencies project implementation is always an enriching
experience to the client considered to be a supplemental benefit and a catalyst for change. Effective project
implementation in the MONE continues to be a serious concern for both the Government and the Bank.
15.    Proiect Management.   The Bank repeatedly expressed serious concerns in the area of project
management, and this applied equally to the three projects under implementation by the MONE. The project
had a complex implementation scheme because of the involvement of several MONE departments and a larger
variety of schools; therefore, it was difficult for the PCU to keep the various directorates and departments
equally involved at all times. In addition to the problems mentioned earlier on management indecision and
political influences, there are other issues that require attention, including: assignment of better qualified
managerial, technical and administrative staff to the PCU with fluent foreign language skills;  lack of a
budgetary allocation for field supervision by PCU staff to allow for regular travel to visit school sites: and
reluctance to contracting national fixed-term or consultant staff to PCU positions as needed, preferring to
assign teachers with lower qualifications and poor language skills. Unfortunately, use of Loan funds for
efficient project management and implementation still remains controversial for both the Treasury and the
MONE because of extremely low salaries and internal travel budgets in the public sector.  Despite all



-6 -
constraints, it is noteworthy to recognize that in the last two years of implementation the PCU was much more
effective in carrying out its responsibilities
16.    Use of Consultants. The use by the MONE of both local and international consultants continues to be
a controversial issue despite the fact that such services are in great need. In some areas the use of consultants
was quite successful while in others it proved unproductive because of a mismatch between recipients and
providers of the services. Some of the factors preventing the effective use of consultants continues to be: (i)
difficulty in forming partnerships between MONE officials and with national/international consultant
counterparts because of the large gaps between the qualifications and incomes of civil servants and consultants;
(ii) the foreign language working knowledge of MONE staff is limited to a handful of individuals, which also
hampers their participation in foreign training;  (iii) lack of precisely defined and appropriate TORs,
compounded by lack of understanding of the objectives of technical assistance by much of the MONE staff
and/or consultants, with consequent unrealistic expectations; (iv) lack of leadership by the Client in monitoring
the inputs/outputs of consultant's work and ensuring that TA is well targeted at appropriate tasks that will yield
results and show evidence of the benefits of TA; (v) keen assessment and understanding by the contractor of
the TORs ensuring that the Client also has realistic expectations of consultancy outputs and gives importance to
the Client's involvement when appropriate.
D. PROJECT COST CHANGES
17.    Actual total project costs are calculated at US$72.16 Million, a marginal overrun of 1.5% due to
greater school renovation undertaken by the MONE. On the other hand, Loan expenditures had an underrun
of US$4.1 Million, or 7% of the Loan which was canceled. This cost savings was mainly due to decreases in
the price of technology equipment from the appraised estimates in the mid 1980's and to the MONE's
conscious attention to economy in procurement. Although the MONE requested informally an extension of the
Loan to use the remaining funds, the Bank recommended against an extension due to changes in strategy to
strengthen and reform vocational education in Turkey. The main differences in project expenditures were: (i)
higher expenditures in technical assistance (50% above appraised estimates) due to the addition of the
Mother/Child Development Program and additional technical assistance obtained for improved project school
performance and project implementation; (ii) lower expenditures for books and educational materials (58%
below appraised estimates) due to reluctance by MONE to purchase educational materials which are considered
a luxury; and (iii) higher expenditures allocated by the MONE for school refurbishment (120% above
appraised estimates).  A reallocation of funds was made under a Loan amendment in July 1994 to: (a)
increase support for improved school performance and project implementation (US$1.0 M); (b) finance the
expansion of the Mother/Child Development Program (US$0.9 M); (c) finance computer classrooms to
improve computer literacy for today's job market (US$9.0M); and (d) finance additional development of girls
secondary vocational schools.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
18.    The MONE is fully committed to project sustainability as evidenced by follow-up and project school
surveys after Loan closing and its agreement to maintain a project coordinator in the PCU through end-1997.
The MONE has agreed to allocate a budget for overseeing the project's operational phase. As mentioned
earlier, project schools are expected to be continually over-enrolled to meet demands for secondary education
and adult education, and project benefits will continue to increase for several years to come. There are some
risks that certain of the more sophisticated project equipment may not be repaired if needed due to lack of
knowledge and resources at the local school level. However, with greater efforts to decentralize responsibility
and budgets to the local provincial and local school levels, it is expected that local school managers and
teachers will be able to take more initiative and act directly when services, repairs, or training is needed. The
Bank hopes to support in future the government to implement its decentralizationplans for the education sector.



F. BANK PERFORMANCE
19.   The Bank was responsive and sensitive to national development priorities in the design of project
objectives, and the project fitted well with the country development strategy. Project inputs were needed to
modernize the knowledge and skills of the labor force and significantly improve the quality of vocational
education and responsiveness to emerging job markets. The project is recognized to have contributed to
achieving these goals by project beneficiaries-- students, teachers, and employers. The project was adequately
prepared although it was ambitious in expecting institutional change to take place in a weak agency and
overestimated the implementation capacity of the MONE as well as capacity at the local school level.
Although the project suffered from inefficiencies during implementation in project management and program
quality at the school level, the Government and the Bank were cognizant of these problems and repeatedly
addressed these shortcomings which were discussed with Government officials.  Pointing out problems
repeatedly in Aide Memoires was frustrating for the Bank having no responsibility for implementation, while
the borrower recognized these inefficiencies but was unable or unwilling to take action. Lack of initiative and
managerial leadership are problems inherent in a weak and underpaid public sector. As the project was fully
implemented and received consistent government support throughout implementation and is a sustainable
project in an area which continues to be of top priority to the government, the project should be considered to
have been on balance satisfactory at preparation and implementation.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE.
20.   The MONE and Government maintained full commitment to project objectives throughout project
implementation and remain committed to project sustainability. The MONE complied in implementing the
project as appraised and achieved most of both the physical and social objectives of the project. The MONE
and the government continue to be committed to improving the employability of their secondary school
graduates and to providing job related skills to the unemployed. In this sense, support for vocational education
remains strong since a large segment of the population has been left behind without the knowledge, skills, and
attitudes needed for today's quickly evolving service sector jobs and other competitive job markets in Turkey.
Resources for the education sector, however, have remained limited and thus the project's resources were
highly valuable. The MONE should also be commended for being economical in its purchases, proposing least
cost solutions. Where the MONE has remained weak is in responding to the need for swift project
implementation in the use of Bank funds, and being more open to contracting qualified outside staff to
complement its weaknesses in management and administration and the lack of technical capacity at both the
central level and local school level to modernize pedagogy and the vocational education system. However,
recognizing that institutional development and evolution of the public sector is a longer-term goal, the MONE
has remained committed to improving its recognized weaknesses. In balance, the borrower's performance is
rated as satisfactory based on its successful completion of the project and its commitment to project
sustainability. This rating also takes into consideration the fact that the MONE improved significantly project
implementation in its last year and was able to monitor efficiently the last project phase. In particular, the
MONE/PCU is commended for an excellent job in the implementation of the computer literacy classrooms
component in the last project year.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
21.   Based on substantive achievement of project objectives (see section B above), which targeted the
lower-income and more disadvantaged students and adults and women emerging from a home life into the
labor market, the project is rated as having achieved a "satisfactory" outcome. Notable project benefits,
among others, included: (i) strengthened the weakest segment of the public education system which lags most
in effectiveness and continues to be in need of reform: (ii) upgraded the status of many schools through
provision of essential equipment, materials, and refurbishment, for which there have always been funding
shortages; (iii) substantively increased satisfaction for students, teachers, schools, and the community which



benefited from new job skills and from the benefits of new technology, teacher development, and more books
and materials which have been scarce in the Turkish language; (iv) increased efficiency in use of the sector's
resurces by opening up schools to the community through the development of many adult courses; traditionally
schools operated only with formally enrolled students, but the project opened doors to the community and
helped meet demand for job skills, in particular, for women; (v) increased awareness for the need for life-
long-learning, making schools a learning resource for the community; (vi) raised awareness of the importance
of modular adult education for the Adult/Public Training Centers to meet the needs for continuing education
and skills updating; and (vii) last but not least, supported the development of schools which are overenrolled
since students exceed placement availability and, given current population growth, demand for schooling will
continue to exceed placement over the next several years; pressures from immigration from the Balkans and
Turkic Republics is an additional stress to the school system.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
22.    Further expansion and improvements are still greatly needed in the education sector in Turkey to
achieve quality and efficiency in the public education and training system. A public sector that is characterized
as overly centralized and bureaucratic yet weak and inefficient is in need of remedy to meet the population's
expectations for improvement in their socio-economic status as they join the European Union and compete in
global markets in the twenty-first century. Unfortunately, much of the labor force in Turkey remains unskilled
or semi-skilled in most sectors and this is a major constraint to improving living standards and economic
stability. There is need and opportunity for the Bank to support the growth and development of the public
education sector in all areas of the system while strongly promoting needed efficiency gains and reforms.
Also important for the Bank is to foster the development of the private sector in the provision of education in
an effort to increase contributions from families which can afford private education alternatives while allowing
the public sector to expand coverage to much of the underserved population. Although it is recognized that
expansion of basic and secondary education is fundamental, including secondary vocational and technical
education, affordability of such an expansion and efficiency in the allocation of resources and sources of
funding need thorough review and policy orientation to maximize the benefits from resources potentially
available to the sector. Expansion of compulsory basic education and restructuring and expansion of secondary
education are the two main priorities in the Government's national development plan for the education sector;
pre-school education is also being recognized as essential, but it is questionable how affordable it is for the
public sector. The Bank is now financing studies under amended Loan 3192-TU on the feasibility and costs of
such expansions, while also identifying greater efficiency measures for the allocation of sector resources.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
23.    There were several lessons learned from this project, many of which were applied during project
implementation. The lessons outlined in the recent ICR for the Industrial Schools Project completed one year
earlier (SecM96-275) are all applicable to this project as well since these projects were implemented
simultaneously by the same staff. Although these lessons are recognized by the borrower, it is often difficult to
take action upon this knowledge due to political and capacity constraints. Selective main project lessons are
summarized below.
Poor School Management   The importance of effective school management is often overlooked or
underestimated. School managers are not selected for their leadership or managerial skills, and tend to
stagnate in their positions while not being required to update their managerial and pedagogical knowledge and
skills; thus, many school managers have little initiative, they do not provide incentives to teachers, and they
also lack outreach skills to interact with the community and local businesses. In the Project, school managers
often did not have the ability to select and run appropriate programs as was envisaged. Lessons: Education
projects should include substantive training for school managers and encourage periodic assessments and
rotation of school managers on a competitive basis.



-9
Adjustment in Project Design. Education projects need to adjust to emerging needs in society, discoveries in
science, technology, and pedagogy, and changes in labor markets; they can not be static in design over a long
implementationperiod. Although adjustments were made to the project during implementation, it was difficult
to incorporate timely change and encourage innovativeness, partly because of the rigidity of the public sector
and partly due to the perceived requirement to adhere to an agreed project on both the side of the Borrower
and the Bank. Lesson: The borrower and the Bank need to apply much moreflexibilitv in adjusting the project
design and simplifying procedures without the need for formal amendments for changes that are consistent *with
the project's broad objective and scope.
Apprenticeship Program. In retrospect, it is recognized that the apprenticeship program should have evolved
with greater general education content, which is what apprentices are lacking, rather than strengthening hands-
on skills. Although the Project did not aim to reform the apprenticeship program, the MONE is aware of the
serious need to do so. Apprentices are almost exclusively primary school leavers with five years of education
or less, joining the program at age 14. Between the ages of 11 and 14, primary school leavers cannot work
and cannot join the apprenticeship program; this gap for primary school leavers needs to be addressed since it
is a serious problem for children who are put to work illegally at a very young age and have little chance of
returning to formal schooling in later years. The apprenticeship system encourages employers to hire youth
with little education at low wages, and their current training inhibits career growth and job mobility.
Apprentices should receive more education on core subjects like math, and science, and language arts,
preferably through applied learning and other teaching methods designed for academically weaker students
who are often from low socio-economic backgrounds, Lesson: Periodic assessments, more frequent than a
mid-term review, should take place to assess the sustained validity of the project design and to make the
necessary adjustments.
Girls Vocational Schools. It is recognized that there are merits to offering single-gender education due to
proven benefits in higher academic performance and higher enrollment of girls. In Turkey, however, single-
gender schools are justified on an occupational basis -- domestic occupations for girls and industrial or
technical occupations for boys, reinforcing traditional gender stereotypes. Field visits show that girls schools
are generally well run and have motivated teachers, and that girls are benefiting from completing secondary
vocational and technical education; furthermore, there is a demand for the more culturally appropriate single-
gender schools. Girls vocational schools have also responded to increased demand for job training by women
who are being forced out into the labor market due to difficult economic times, in particular in rural areas;
given their gender focus, these schools have been successful in attracting women into skills training in a non-
threatening environment. Lesson: Overall, girls vocational schools have very positive results in encouraging
school attendance by girls and encouraging girl's and women 's employment
Decentralization Although the project was designed to conform with the centralized structure of the MONE,
in retrospect, we realize the project could have been more successful if it had been managed and administered
at the regional and local levels. The project supported reliance and ownership at the central level of the
MONE. Much of the daily decision making continues to be made at the central level and this overburdens the
central level with administrative tasks, takes away from policy and quality control functions of the central level,
and weakens the identity, ownership, and self-reliance of the school and its staff. Lesson: To succeed in
strengthening individual schools, ownership of the project must be at the school level to be able to empowver
managers and teachers, while leaving central authorities to enforce only qualitv control and conduct policy
planning and research.
Proiect Management  The Bank repeatedly expressed concerns regarding the need for effective project
management and implementation. Finding the appropriate mix of autonomy and integration for project
implementation management requires an informed choice about what is the best project management option to
achieve outcomes for the beneficiaries, the project, and the implementing agency. Institutional development



- 10-
objectives are sometimes confused with the need for effective project implementation management, leading to a
weak project management structure with insufficiently qualified staff and inadequate resources. Lesson: The
borrower and the Bank must undertake an analvsis of options for project management during project
preparation, and make an informed choice of the correct project implementation management structure giv en
constraints to achieve the project outcomes in a timelY fashion.



- l l -
PART 2. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summarv of Assessments
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Appraised and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7A: Project Costs
Table 7B: Project Financing
Table 8:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:  Bank Resources. Staff Inputs
Table 10: Bank Resources. Missions



Table 1: Summarv of Assessments
A.  Achievement of objectives           Substantial          Partial              Negligible          Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                                        X
Sector policies                                                                  X
Financial objectives                                                                                  X
Institutional development                                X
Physical objectives                    X
Poverty reduction                      X
Gender issues                          X
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives                                                                              X
Public sector management                                                        X
Private sector development                                                                            X
Other (specify)
B.  Proiect sustainabilitv              Likey                          Llnlikely                      Uncertain
x
C.  Bank performance                     Highly satisfactory           Satisfactory                   Deficient
Identification                                                         X
Preparation assistance                                                 X
Appraisal                                                              X
Supervision                                                            X
D.  Borrower performance                Highly satisfactory            Satisfactorv                   Deficient
Preparation                                                            X
Implementation                                                         X
Covenant compliance                                                    X
Operation                                                              X
* Note: The satisfactory implementation rating is based on improved performance in the last two project years. and particularly in the final year.
E.  Assessment of outcome               Highly satisfactorv            Satisfactorv                   Deficient
x



Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan/Credit title                     Purpose              | Year of approval_j    Status
Preceding operations                                                                                  l
1. Education Project           Development of secondary technical   1971              Completed 1981
(Ln.748-TU)                 and vocational education
2. Industrial Training I       Development of post-secondarv, two-   1984             Completed 1990
(Ln. 2399-TU)               year technician training programs.
3. Industrial Schools          Upgrading of Industrial Schools      1987              Completed 1994
Subsequent operations                                                                                l
1. Industrial Training II      Expansion of post-secondary, two-year  1988            Active
(Ln.2922-TU)                technician training programs.                                         l
2. National Education          To focus on quality enhancement and    1990            Active
Development Project        management improvement aspects of
(Ln.3192-TU)               the Government's broad sectoral
development programs through
improved student achievement,
educational efficiency, teacher
education, and organizational
management.
Table 3: Proiect Timetable
Steps in project cycle                 Date planned                 Actualj
Identification (Initial Project Brief)                                  September 11, 1985
Preparation                                                             October, 1985
Appraisal                                   May, 1986                   April 1, 1986
Negotiations                                                            November 3. 1986
Board Presentation                          February, 1987             January 6, 1987
Signing                                                                 January 12, 1987
Effectiveness                                                           April 2, 1987
Project Completion                          June 30, 1995               December 31, 1995
Loan Closing                                December 31, 1995           December 31, 1995



Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95               FY96
Appraisl estimate                  3.50    6.50   14.50   27.00   41.50   52.00   57.00   58.50
Actual                             2.99    3.75    4.54   540   12.68   22.49   24.10   26.00        54.90
Actual as % ofestimate               85      58      31       20      31      43       42      44        93]
Date of Fmal Disbursement:            April, 1996 (?)
Undisbursed Balance Cancelled:        USS 3.6 Millio.
Table 5: Studine lnded in the Project
Purpose as defined at                                              Status and
Study             appraisal or s redefined                                           Impact of Study
1. Evaluation     Study to make a thorough evaluation of the following aspects:      An evaluation study was completed
Study          (a) improvement of training needs assessment survey and their impact   according to revised TORs as there were no
on the relevance of training programs to the labor market need;   graduates yet from project-supported
(b) ability of graduates to find employnent, to include a follow-up of    schools. Linking success of programs with
the employment record of graduates (first graduates of the project will    employment of graduates is a controversial
enter employment in 1998);                                        issue in the MONE because these linkages
(c) performance of the graduates on the job through interviews with  are weak. Assessment of the effectiveness of
employers;                                                        programs has also been carried out by
(d) success in adapting existing curricula and developing new one;  METARGEM; however, studies and
(e) effectivenes of new in-service training for instructors and   recommendations have had little impact on
performance of instructors;                                       program content and restructuring of MONE
(f) development of the entrepreneurship skil training and information  management.
sy_em on financial and advisory services.



Table 6: Key Indicators for LnI _ t
Key Implementaiton indicgators in SAR     Unit    Quantity    I       IICU  Ill    IV7       Total
Schoo4s EauiDD d & -RelurdWw
Publc Trainrng Centers                centers        159      40    120    159       9           3
Apprenticeship Trainig Centem         centers         56      55     37      56      0           1
AduktTechnical Training Center        centers         10       9      5      10      2            26
Comnmer. & Tourism Training Center    centers         30      30      3      30    272           335
Womenc Vocational Education & Trg.    center         1t5       3     12      15     58
Apprenticeship Center (added in '93)  center          23       0      0      23      0
TOTAL
Porm-Supported !j2ggoiUgkiM
Printng                                centers                         2       2
Sewng                                  centers                 35     85      14                  1
Garment and Lether Garment             centes                  39     39      29                  10
Typing                                 center                  46     26                           72
Food Technology                        center                          2                            2
Trkco Knitting                         centers                 21     75      45                  141
Machine Embroidery                     center                  26    112      45                  1
Offce Equipment                        center                          10                          1
Language Laboratories                  centers                        90
Refrigertion & Air Conditioning        centers                         8                            8
Ebctriity                              centers                 41     79      39                  1
Eketronic                              centers                 27             61                   88
Ceramic                                center                          7
Shoe Making                            center                   5              8                   1
Metal Works                            centers                 20             60
Wood Working                           centers                                55
Automofive                             centers                 63             40                  1
Conputer Technology                    centers                 42            293                  3
Machine Shop                           centers                 25             42                   6
General Education Equipment            centen                  98            184                  282
Comptuer Literary Classrooms
TOTAL                                                                                           2,281
In-Service Training Curr. Design         mm            54                                          62
Trainign Needs Assessnent                mm             12                                          6
SkiIl Testing and Certifcation           mm             12                                         10
Entreprenrurship Coures                  mm            12                                          12
Support to PCU (Management & Proc.)      mm             18                                         3
Evaluation Study                         mm             6                                           6
Instructional Met.                       mm            12                                           9
Tourism                                  mm              0                                          5
Natural Gas                              mm             0
Employment Prorno.                       mm             0                                           1
Subtotal                                             126                                         153
Technkal Assistance (2nd Contract 1995)
Financial                                mm            13
Procurement                              mm            12                                          1
Projedt Impementation                    mm            19
Coommunity Devebopment                   mm              6
Leaming Resource Development             mm             6
Offce Manager                            mm             13                                         1
Institutional Development                mm            12                                          1
Subtotal                                              81
OTAL                                                  207                                         213



Table 6: Key Indicators for ImDlementation
ACSIl
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR     Unit    Quantity                               to date (mm)
Fellowshics
In-Service Teacher Training             mm           450                                         3
Curiculum & Program Design              mm             84
Instruct. Mat. & Leam. Res. Dev.        mm             60                                         55
Skill Testing and Certification         mm             36                                         55
Entrepreneurship Courses                mm             45
Community Development                   mm             16                                         1
Support to PIU                          mm             12                                         12
METGE Teachers & Appren. Persons.       mm             54                                         29
School Inspectors (1993)                mm             60                                         30
OTAL                                                  817                                        738
Instructional MtedaX                    USSM             2
ranslation ad Printing of Textbooks     each           44                                         32
Production Revolving Funds              funds          200                                        2
Enrollment in Proiect Specializations
Electical                             students       670                                       4,820
Electronics                           students       390                                       2,1
Computers/Accounting                  students        520                                     40,42
Metalworiung                          students       420                                      11,62
Welding                               students        100                                      2,
Woodworking                           students        340                                     13,
Automotive                            students        540                                     17,353
Machine Shop                          students       420
Plumbing                              students        100                                      1,1
Bricklaying                           students         60                                         12
Sewing                                students        700                                     11,575
Garment Making                        students        680                                        7
Leather Garnent Making                students        120                                         23
Trico                                 students        440                                        871
M/C Embroidery                        students       560                                      11,858
Carpet Weaving                        students        320                                      1,71
Killim                                students        160                                       700
Blanket Making                        students         40                                       440
Home Economics                        students        480                                       800
Book Binding                          students        120                                         38
Shoe Making                           students        100                                        114
Language Training                     students        240                                      2,118
Typing                                students        540                                      1,662
Eng. Drawing                          students         80                                         2
Handicrafts                           students        640                                      3,801
Ceramics                              students         20
OTAL                                                8,800                                    130,964
Contracting Incremental Instructors                                                     (1994-95)
Public Training Ceriters              Instructor    1,080                                      5,163
Apprenticeship Training Centers       Instructor      140                                      1,11
Women's Training Centers              Instuctor        90                                        8
Commerce & Tourism Training Centers   Instnrctor       60                                       729
Adult Technical Centers               Instructor       _                                         a
TOTAL                                                1,397                                      8,245
Intecrated Pre-School Proaram
Mother-Child Couples Trained         Mother/Child       0                                      1,751
New Teachers Trained                  Intructor        0                                         10S
Teacher In-Service Training           Instructor        0                                         34
Province Coordinator Trained          Managers          0                                        2
Symposium Earty                      Conference         0                                          1



Table 7A: Project Custs
Appraisal Estimate (USSM)                Actual
(USSM)
Item                                     Local     Foreign     Total     Loca      Forceign   Total
costs    costs       -         onCC      c2ts
1. Refurbishing                            1.4        .4        1 8     4.0       0.0         4.0
2. Equipment                               6.9      53.5       60.4      11.7     48.0        59.7
3. histructional Materials                 1.1       0.6        1 7      0.0       0.7        0.7
4. Consumable Materials                   2.8         -         2 8      1.2       0.0         1.2
5. Technical Assistance                    0.4       4.0        4 4      0.9       5.7         6.6
a. Consultants                     0.3       1.5         1 8
b. Fellowships                     0.1       2.5         2.6
TOTAL                                    12.6      fM          71 1      17 8     54 4        72 2
Table 7B: Pmojt FaNEinn
Appraisal estimate (USSM)                     Actual/estimate (USSM)
Local           Foreign                          Local       Foreign
Source                      costs            costs            Total         costs         costs         Total
IBRD                    -               58.5              58.5            -            54.4          54.4
Govt                    12.6            -                  12.6           17.8         -              17.8
TOTAL                   12.6            58.5              71.1             17.8        54.4         [ 72.2



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
=                            =           =        -. =.                           .__             _
Agreements    Section         Covenant    Status       Original       Actual          Description of covenant              Comments
Class                 fulfillment    Fulfillment
date          Date
Loan 2776-    Section        3             C                                      The Borrower shall open and       In compliance
TU             2.02 (b)                                                           maintain in Dollars a Special
Account in its Central Bank.
Section      10             C                                     The Borrower shall carry out the   In compliance
3.01 (b)                                                          Project in accordance with the
ImpIementation program set forth
in Schedule 5 to this agreement.
Schedule     5              C                                     The Ministry shall have the        In compliance.
5 .A                                                              general responsibility for the
implementation of the Project.
The Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) shall operate as the
technical and administrative
secretariat of the Project
Mangemnent Committee.
Schedule     10             C                                     The responsibility for the         In compliance
5.B                                                               implementation of the program
provided under Part A of the
Project shall be assigned to the
relevant directorates and
coordinated by the Deputy
Undersecretary for Tech, and
Voc. Training.                                            I
Schedule     3              C                                     Each NFVT institution shall       In compliance
5 .B.2(a)                                                         prepare a separate application for
assistance. Applications will be
forwarded from the provincial
level to the management
committees for approval, in
accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Bank.
Schedule     3              C                                     The project will be implemented    In compliance
5.B.2 (b)                                                         in three phases. Phases 11 and III
will be prepared in accordance
with the same selection criteria as
Phase I, unless the Borrower and
Bank shaU otherwise agree.
Schedule     5              C                                     The Borrower shall ensure the      In compliance
5.B.3 (a)                                                         availability of saff and facilities
for the PCU until the compietion
of all activities under the project.
Schedule     5              C                                     The Borrower shall assign to the    In compliance
5.B.3 (b)                                                         PCU the responsibility for the
coordination of activities under
the Project and monitoring their
progress; the maintenance of the
Project Accounts; and the
procurement of goods and
services under the Project.



Agreements    Section          Covenant       Status     Original        Actual           Description of covenant              Comments
Class                 fulfilliment    Fulfillment
date          Date
Schedule      5              C                                       The relevant directorates shall be    In compliance
5.C.1                                                               responsible for collecting and
furnishing the PCU with
information on the status of their
activities. The PCU will use this
information to compile quarterly
reports to the Management
Committee and the Bank.
Schedule      5              C         06/30191                      The progress reports shall form    In compliance
5.C.2                                                                the basis for the evaluation
referred to in Part A(2) which
shall be furnished to the Bank.
Section       1              C                                       The Borrower shall maintain, or    In compliance
4.01 (a)                                                             cause to be maintained, records
and accounts adequate to reflect
the operations, resources and
expenditures of the Borrower
necessary for carrying out the
l ___________   ___________                            ____________                   Project  or  any  part thereof.
Schedule      1              C                                       The Borrower shall ensure that
4.01 (b) (i-                                                         each fiscal year the Project
l   iu)                                                              accounts and Special accounts
shall be audited in accordance
with auditing principles
consisently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank. The Borrower shall
furnished the Bank, as soon as
possible, with a certified copy of
the audit report.
Covenant Clas:      1  Acounts/Audit
2. Fnancial Performance/generate revenues for beneficiaries
3. Flow and utilization of Project Funds
4. Counterpart Funding
5. Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6. Environmental covenants
7. Involuntary Resettlement
8. Indigenous People
9. Monitoring, review, and reporting
10. Implementation
11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13. Other
Status:                       C: Complied with
CD: Compliance after Delay
NC: Not Complied with
SOON: Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP: Complied with Partially



Table 9: Bank Resources:Staff Inputs
Stage of project                      Planned                              Revised                    Actual
cycle                                                              Stakffweeks                Staffweeks
Through Appraisal                  No data available                    No data available                 65.2
Appraisal-Board                    No data available                    No data available                  2.9
Supervision                        No data available                    No data available                 108.4
Completion                                11.0                                 11.0
TOTAL
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Days
Stage of project    Month/    No. of      in      Specialized saaff                                          Types of
cycle               year      persona    field    skills represented    Iniplementation   Development        problems
Status          objectives
Through           Oct. 85    Not         Not    Not Available
appraisal        Dec. 85    avail.      Avail
Appraisal        Apr. 86    3            17      ECN,PRC,EDC
through Board    May 86       1          2       LEG
approval                   I_I
Supervision      Mar. 87    3           6        ARC, EDC, EDC               I                 I
Jan. 88    2           6       TM, EDC                     I                 I
Jun. 88     1          8       EDC                         I
Dec. 88    2           3       TM, EMT                     I
Jun. 89     2                  TM. EMT                     2
Nov. 89    2           5       TM, EMT                     2                 2
May 90      3          8       TM, ARC, EDC                2                 2
Dec. 90    1           5       EDC                         2                 2
May 91      2          7       TM, EDC                     2                 2
Feb. 92    3           5       TM, EDC, EMT                2                 3
Sept.92    3           5       TM, EDC, HR                 2                 3
Jan. 93    3           5       TM, EDC, HR                 3                 3
Apr. 94    2           4       TM, COM                     S                 U
Oct. 94    3           8       TM, COM, EDC                S                 U
Jul. 95     3          12      TM, COM, HR                 S                 U
Dec. 95     1          7       TM                          S                 U
Completion       Apr. 96    3            10      TM, COM, HR                 S                 U
EDC = Technical Educator    COM    Computer Technology Specialist
ARC = Architect              HR    = Human Resources Specialist
ECN = Economist              EMT       Employment & Trairning Specialist
TM  =  Task Manager                    PRC   = Procurement Specialist
File: m:\patricia\icr2776\tables



APPENDIX A
EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE
A.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
1.   Additional to the experience gained from the implementation of the project, it
will be useful to take into consideration these lessons for future planning.
2.    Proiect Management: In order to  realize the objectives of such  a
comprehensive project, the responsibilities of the project management unit and other
Ministry units should be determined in detail and the terms of reference for the
respective staff, as stated in the organization chart, should be included in the
planning. It is necessary to allow the unit responsible for the project implementation
to have the expenditure authority on the budget foreseen by the project activities. It
is considered impractical to have an efficient and productive output with a project
management unit lacking the above-mentioned characteristics.
3.   Technical Assistance: The efforts of planned consultants who will work in the
areas determined as essential for the development of the sector, should be prepared
in detail in the project design. The Ministry personnel to be assigned as counterparts
of these consultants should be determined according to the terms of reference. This
point is essential in terms of productiveness for the unit which provide services and
for the Ministry to obtain efficient outputs from these services. Unless these points
are provided, it is not possible to obtain any positive result. The result will be a loss
of time and money.
4.    Overseas Fellowship Trainina: Since the cost of fellowship training is quite
high, the goal should be determined more carefully within the project. Especially, a
provision for overseas training of those having a relatively low level foreign language
proficiency will not be productive. A planning which includes an initial in-country
training of the selected candidates will lead to a more useful output both in terms of
project cost and of the benefit to be obtained from the overseas training. The scope
of the overseas training and the qualifications required should be detailed in light of
the project objectives.
5.   Instructional Materials and Program Development: Curriculum development is
a difficult and important issue in vocational and technical education. Under the
project, this issue is planned to be under the responsibility of the Non-Formal
Training Institute (NFTI). The organization of the NFTI, affiliated to the General
Directorate of Apprenticeship and Non-Formal Training, lacks the participation of the
work/business sector. On the other hand, the necessary professional working
environment could not be created due to the qualifications of its staff being far from
those required in an institute. Regarding these type of studies, a structure containing
the participation of the business community should be established and such an
organization should have its own budget, along with a comprehensive knowledge
about the related fields. The efficiency and continuity of the activities can only be
provided with a structure which includes a strong participation from the business
community. Since this could not be provided under the project, the activities
remained as theories and no application opportunity could be found for the prepared
documents, trained staff and selected fields.



6.   Inservice Teacher Training: The MONE has an Inservice Training Unit to
organize inservice training activities. The budget with regard to the inservice training
activities is allocated directly for this Unit. All training institutions inform this Unit
about their inservice training needs and the In-service Training Unit makes the
necessary planning according to budget-related facilities. At the macro level, though
this kind of structuring is considered to have economic aspects, the determination of
inservice training needs, timely and efficient response to this need, coordination of
this training by responsible units and even locally held in-service training seminars
would be productive.
7.    Procurement Procedures: In vocational and  technical education, the
application of a program sensitive to environmental needs requires the determination
of needs according to this objective. Although specialization has been achieved on
training needs assessment, the activities as to a large-scale training needs
assessment could not be expanded. Though the central level planning have been
useful in terms of timelines and quaiity, some procurement held for the project
schools have led to unprofitable use and ownership due to incomplete knowledge of
physical infrastructure and environmental needs. Hence, adequate resources and
time should be allocated for needs assessment during the project design and at the
commencement of the implementation process.
B.   FUTURE APPLICATION OF LESSONS LEARNED
8.    Under the project, a total of 341 schools and some departments of 293 non-
formal training institutions were equipped with computer hardware and software.
Providing the industry sector with a more qualified work force through all non-formal
vocational training institutions can only be possible with full-capacity utilization of
this equipment and with the expansion of project benefits to the other schools. Since
the expansion of such a physical capacity is hard work in financial terms, it will not
be possible to be a profitable one. Therefore, initially, the following should be
provided:
(a)  Beyond its contribution to the country's economy, the workforce trained
through non-formal training also contribute to the trained individuals and
the employers. The cost of this training is quite high. While only the
Government is paying for this cost, it is not realistic to anticipate a
continuity through expansion of this training. Hence, a structural
planning should be done where the beneficiaries of education provided
in the non-formal training institutions will contribute to the expenditures
of the training.
(b) A  legal arrangement should  be considered with regard to the
accessibility of the workshops and laboratories of the equipped project
schools to the individuals being trained and even to the industry.
Furthermore, it is essential to have rapid changes in technology injected
into the business community and naturally to amend the educational
programs to respond to these changes. Through regular follow-up
studies and developments, vocational and technical research and
2



development centers such as METARGEM and NFTI should be provided
with a legal structure that will enable a preferred implementation in terms
of finance and personnel policy.
(c) Despite these deficiencies, due to the delays in the project activities, the
General Directorate of Apprenticeship and Non-Formal Training and
other General Directorates should strengthen their project follow-up
sections with qualified personnel and focus on follow-up, orientation and
inservice training activities. This point will have positive impact on the
project outputs.
C.   COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
9.   Under the Non-Formal Vocational Training Project Loan Agreement published
in the Official Gazette dated 21 March 1987, the Government and the Ministry of
National Education.committed to the followings:
10.  Section 2.02 (a) of the Loan Agreement reads as follows:
"The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn, from the Loan Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank, for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan."
In accordance with the above paragraph, amendments have been made within the
allocated budget in the categories stated in Amendments in Project Loan (line 23),
as a result of the mutual agreement held on 18 August 1995, in view of the changing
needs and deviations in the project implementation schedule.
11.  Section 2.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement reads as follows:
"The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain
in dollars a special account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement."
According to this paragraph, a Special Account in the Central Bank was opened and,
as stated above, this commitment was fulfilled by making the payments in conformity
with the categories.
12.  Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement reads as follows
"The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later date as
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such late date."



The project was closed on December 31, 1995.
13.  Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement reads as follows:
"The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall
carry out the Project through the Ministry with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate educational, financial,
economic and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project."
The Ministry, through the use of existing resources and facilities, has attempted to
provide the provisions stated in this paragraph. The Turkish Government
contribution to this project was realized as US$ 17.7 million, though planned in SAR
as US$ 12.6 million. A detailed-information is presented in Annex-8.
14.   Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement reads as follows:
"Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank."
The provisions set forth in Schedule 5 have been, partly, provided. Quarterly testing
and evaluation reports to be presented to the Executive Committee and to the Bank
were prepared twice yearly.
15.  Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement reads as follows:
"Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement."
The activities with regard to this paragraph could only be realized with delays.
Consultancy services were procured via contract-signing with SERCO Int. (UK-
extended once), British Council, Mother-Child Education Foundation, International
Language Center (UDM) and English Fast (Yeni Ufuklar).
16. - Section 4.01 (a.b.c) of the Loan Agreement reads as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the



Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall;
(i)   have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
and the Specials Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by said authors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and
(iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
accounts and the audit thereof and said records as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall;
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, separate records and accounts
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)  ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report thereof contains, in respect of such separate accounts, a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds of
the Loan withdrawn in respect of such expenditures were used
for the purposes for which they were provided."
17.  The commitments stated above were, mostly, fulfilled. Contributions from the
local budget and subsidies to the schools, along with the amendments to the budget
expenditure categories, since 1987, of the General Directorate of Apprenticeship
and Non-Formal Training, were kept within the relevant General Directorate.
Although, in fact, the yearly resources allocated from the budget is determined, the
measurement of how much forwarded to which school could not be settled. The
project expenditures were regularly audited by Prime Ministry Treasury Controllers'



Council at the end of each fiscal year. and a copy of the prepared report was
forwarded to the Bank. The EPIC procurement program was procured to enable the
PCU Budget Section to keep the accounts more regularly and as required. As
payments were made both through the Special Account in the Central Bank and
through the World Bank directly, both account summaries were kept separately.
D.   EVALUATION OF MONE PERFORMANCE
18.  The Government has accelerated the Turkish economy's opening to
international competition by applying structural change programs in the economy.
The priority given to improvement in new technological capacity and to the
development of small scale industry to encourage export comes along with the
investments concerning the provision of skillful, trained and a qualified workforce.
Within this framework, the Ministry of National Education started the implementation
of Industrial Schools Project in 1985 to increase the qualified workforce demand
needed by the developing industrial sector through formal education. Similarly, with
the preparatory activities of Non-Formal Vocational Training Project, an aim was to
increase the qualified workforce supply by developing vocational education for
adults through non-formal education. From this perspective, it can be considered
the project has been designed in accordance with parallel to the development policy
of the country. However, there has been an optimistic, but not realistic, viewpoint
which reveals a moderate adaptation of the existing capacity and resources
(personnel and physical) to the project objectives.
19.  As foreseen in the project planning, a Project Management Council was
established consisting of four General Directorates affiliated to the Deputy
Undersecretary responsible for vocational and technical education for an efficient
implementation of the project. A great effort was made to allow project
implementation under the administration of this Council. However, the changes in
the management of the Ministry have affected the structure and implementation of
the Council and consequently several delays have been experienced in the project
related activities.
20.  On the other hand, within the framework of the Ministry's personnel policy,
assignment of the PCU personnel through Ministry Approvals on a temporary basis
have prevented these individuals taking certain responsibilities. However, the Unit
established an organization within its own, determined the terms of reference and
designated its staff according to these terms of reference after 1992.
21.  To ensure efficient use of the equipment purchased under the project, a
Project Follow-up Section was established however its studies could not be
productive. The basic reason for this is the PCU does not have its own budget which
creates several problems in the designation of its staff to visit the project schools.
The insufficient numbers of project follow-up staff of the four General Directorates
lengthened the period of solving problems directed by the project schools.
22.  During the project implementation, it was foreseen that the implementation
capacity of the Ministry would be supported by consultancy services and fellowship
training under Technical Assistance Services. However, the Ministry could not



effectively benefit from these services due to the international features of the
provided consultants lacking Turkish language and insufficient foreign language
proficiency of the Ministry staff. It has also been determined that overseas fellowship
training could not be profitable as anticipated by reason of the unsatisfactory foreign
language level and employment of trained personnel in inappropriate positions.
23.   Few  qualified personnel employed by the PCU  made great effort and
accomplished the timely realization of procurement activities which has constituted
the major part of the project. Inservice training was provided to ensure an efficient
use of the purchased equipment for training purposes. However, it is necessary to
conduct more comprehensive inservice training activities for increasing positive
project outputs. It can be stated that the MONE performed "satisfactorily" within
the existing structure.
E.   EVALUATION OF BANK PERFORMANCE
24.  The major objective of the Non-Formal Vocational Training Project (NVTP) is,
supporting the Apprenticeship and Vocational Training Law passed in 1986, to
advance the employment of the youth and adults out-of-school and/or establishing
their own business. Education has been the most efficient process in social
development due to its impact on the individuals future life and on the social
structure. The proposed project has aimed at contributing to the provision of a
workforce need which prevents the economic development of the industry, to
improving employment opportunities and to disadvantaged individuals' (unemployed
adults and drop-outs) generating their incomes. Furthermore, the project includes
such moderate objectives as training of qualified manpower for increasing the
profitability of the industry and to fill the gap experienced in non-formal vocational
training field.
25.  Augmentation of new functions and institutions to a system has always been a
painful process. Even to reach an agreement on the amendments in the system is a
great step. Despite, regarding the system development aspect of the project
(especially in Skill Testing and Certification, Enterpreneurship and Learning
Resources Development fields), the resources and the general strategy foreseen by
the project to change the structure of non-formal training institutions has been
unsatisfactory. The Bank has performed a satisfactory monitoring and counselling
task, as well as a fair staff continuity, for the effective implementation of the
project. In view of the overall performance of the project, preparation and supervision
activities can be considered as "satisfactory".
F.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
26.  The Non-Formal Vocational Training Project have achieved the objective
regarding the augmentation and improvement of physical capacity, but not the
objective related to the institutional development As of 1994-1995 school year, a
total of 2,100 trainees from the centers equipped under the project were provided
with a qualified educational environment in, nearly, 20 different fields. The project
was implemented in accordance with its original design. The Mother-Child Education



Program foreseen in 1994, resulted in a total of 1751 mother-child pairs were trained
in 18 provinces. Thus, another non-formal training activity with concentration in early
child training was included in the project, one which also has a positive impact on
child development aside from vocational training. Furthermore, with the METGE
project of the General Directorate of Girls' Technical Education supported under the
project in 1995, the quality and scope of the non-formal training activities conducted
by this Directorate were achieved. On the other hand, the computer labs equipped
under the project enabled the quality improvement of the vocational courses
provided in PTCs and Commerce VHSs. The overseas and in-country training
provided the Ministry staff, teachers and school administrators with knowledge and
skills on various applications in their specialization areas. It has been observed that
some of the trained individuals transfered their knowledge and skills to their units.
27.   According to the first TA with SERCO, only 74 of the 143 teachers who has
taken fellowship training abroad are asigned in the project schools. Some teachers
have been resigned due to economical reasons whereas some have been
transferred to YOK (Higher Education Council). The circumstances drawn above has
decrease the project productivity. Related situation is given in table 12.
TABLE: 12
...........................  .......................--.................-....................   .....................................................................................................................
POSITION                                     NUMBER OF                               %
, TEACHER   * ~ 5
....................   ...............................................................................................  ................................................. ....................
Workinq at the Project Schools                                             74                              52
Not Workinq at the Project Schools                                         23                              16
.............--................... ........-........................................I....................................................................................:...................................................
Working at YOK                                                             13                               9
Working  at Varios Ministry Unit                                           31                              22
Resigded                                                                    2                               1
i~~~~~~~~~~~~.           ... . . . ..  ..    .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...   . ........   ................   ......... . . . . . . . . . .....................................................,.,  ,,. . ,,
Total                                                                     143                             100
......... ..........  .. ..  .........................................   ..    ......   ......   ............  ................I......  ..........................................:.......................... ..I........................   .......:................................................   ........:
28.   Within the scope of the project student follow-up programme has not been
applied. However in the pilot researches of METARGEM applied in 1995 the related
situation is seen: %47 of the graduates of CTTC are occupied, % 53 of the
graduates are not occupied in any kind of occupation whereas %17 of them are
preparing for University Entering   Exam, %  37 of the graduates of Industrial
Vocational Schools occupied, % 27 are studying in universities and %17 of the
graduate are occupied in a family business whereas %16 of them are preparing for
University Entering Exam (METARGEM 1995, Publication No 2,3).
29.   The reaserch made under METGE Project has shown that; %41 of the
graduates of Girls Vocational Schools are occupied in a job, % 49 of the graduates
are using their skills at home for income generationare and %10 of them are
preparing for University  Entering   Exam,(METGE,1995). In the apprenticeship
system, apprenticeships have to be employed by employers, so they can be able to
follow aprenticeships training Center, apart from special conditions of the graduates
(illness, occupied in another work in better conditions ect.) %96 of them are
occupied either in orjinal job or in tehey ar settig up their business. In public training
systems % 50 of the fellowships are occupied in any kind of jobs and are successful



and they aim to develop their skills attending to special programs like computer
courses ect. (GDANE, 1995)
This situation shows that though the numDer of the graduates from Non-Formal
Training System is more than the number of the graduates from Formal Vocational
Education Systems the desired goals are not achieved. Despite the fact that this
situation is caused by several factors, one of the important reason of it is that the
school-industry-suitable programs triangle has not been successfully built The
increasing occupation in Non-Formal Education System is due to the best
application of this triangle.
30.  A major part of the project-related procurement activities were executed in the
final years of the project. Therefore, full-capacity utilization of the purchased
equipment and more beneficiaries' making use of the equipment (e.g. weekends and
evening training) will influence the project outputs positively. To enable the MONE to
continue the systematic upgrading of programs in accordance with the needs of
industry, a better coordination and task share between NFTI and METARGEM, along
with periodical and regular inservice training activities, will contribute to the success
of the project. Taking into consideration of the above mentioned activities, the project
outputs can be considered as "satisfactory"
ADOPTION OF PROJECT OPERATIONAL PHASE
A.   DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONAL PHASE
31.  The Projects Coordination Unit of the MONE continues to perform its tasks.
Project Coordinator and Follow-Up Section, in coordination with the relevant General
Directorates, will ensure the arrangements for inservice training activities and the
effective use of the procured equipment and materials for training purposes. For a
more consistent impiementation of these activities, the General Directorates will,
annually, allocate an adequate portion from their budget.
32.  On the other hand, the activities with Fegard to the task share and
coordination between NFTI and METARGEM are on-going, which will enable the
upgrading of the programs and assessment of project efficiency. These units will
effectively work on these activities.
B.   PERFORMANCE INDICATORS TO MONITOR OPERATION AND
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT
33.  As stated in previous sections of this report, to increase the project outputs
positively, the PCU and the Project Sections of the relevant General Directorates will
work together to remedy the insufficiency of the number of teachers in project-
related vocational fields.
34.  Within the above-mentioned coordination, directly or in collaboration with the
Inservice Training Department, inservice training needs will be responded through
the use of project schools equipped under the project as inservice training centers.



The utilization of the teachers trained in and out of the country as monitor teachers
will increase the efficiency of the inservice training activities.
35.  It is necessary for the relevant General Directorates to allocate the necessary
budget for the realization of above-mentioned activities and for the provision of
additional instructional materials that may be needed by the schools.
36.  METARGEM  has started a research on training needs assessment and
evaluation of the efficient use of computer labs equipped under the project. Similarly,
for an objective evaluation of the other project outputs, NFTI and METARGEM will, in
coordination, monitor the graduates and evaluate the observations of the employers.
The Project Sections of the relevant General Directorates should be strengthened
both for the realization of these activities and for a regular monitoring of the other
activities.












IMAGING
Report No.:         16528
Type:     ICR



