Doc.Ont of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6360-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NOR FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
November 12, 1986
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAIEL RiPORT
Table or Cestents
Page No.
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED ...................           ()
BASIC DT ..............................(i
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .................................... (iii)-(iv)
I. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING .....           1
Manpower Development and Structural Adjustment ...........           1
Employment and Income Generation .........................           2
Non Formal Vocational Training (NFVT) ................ 0             4
Issues in Non Formal Vocational Training (NFVT) ..........           5
Provision of Apprenticeship Training ................           5
Program Design ........................                        6
Provision of Instructors............ ... ..............        6
Financing NFVT Institutions ........... ..............         8
Government Education/Training Strategy and Bank Lending..           10
Government Strategy .................................         10
Bank Lending Strategy ...................... .........        10
Experience with Past Lenuing ........................         10
II. THE PROJECT.................................................           12
Introduction¢ ...........................................           12
Objectives and Scope .............................................. 12
Training orogram Design and Development ..................          12
Instructor Training .........                   ....... .     13
Training Needs Assessment, Curriculum Design,
Instructional Materials Development ...............         13
Skill Testing and Certification .....................         13
Entrepreneurship Courses***##. .***************** .....       14
Evaluation of NFVT ..................................         14
Assistance to NFVT Institutions: Sub-Projects-...........           14
Public Training Centers (PTCs) .......................        15
Apprenticeship Training Centers (ATCs) .... ..........        16
Other NFVT Institutions ...................       ... .       16
Production Revolving Funds (PRFs) ...................         16
Assistance to Project Management  .....................             17
Employment and Income Impact of Proposed Project .........          17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Turkey in April 1986.  The mission comprised Messrs. B. Laporte (economist,
mission leader), Y. Saran (technical educator) and M. Fish (consultant, non
formal training specialist).
This document hs a rtriced distbutin nd may be usd by cipients only in the prformance
of their ocW dutis Its contents may not othewis be diclsed without World lank authorization.



Page No.
III. MANAGEMEc       ag AND IMPLEMENTATION ................ .................           18
Project Management...                                                         18
Implementation Procedures .... ...........................                    18
Monitoring and Evaluation.....£.*...*.......  .............                   19
Implementation of the Project ............................                    19
Implementation Schedule. .................................                    20
State of Preparatione        p    a     r    a    t     i    on...... ...............  20
Project Sustainabilinyy ..................................                    20
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ...........                                            21
Cost of the Project .................  ....................                   21
Summary of Project Costs. .........*......... .......                   21
Basis of Cost Estimates.............................                    22
Customs Duties and Taxes...........................                     22
Cost per Training Place.............................                    22
Contingency Allowances..............................                    22
Foreign Exchange Componento.e........................                   23
Recurrent Costs .....................................                   23
Revenues ......................                                         23
Project Financing........................................                     23
Procrmet...........................                                           24
Technical Assistance (TA)...............O.....  ...... ..                     25
Disbursements ......................                                          26
Special Account ................ ; .................                          26
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS. ................. .. . ....  .KS ...........                   27
Benefnits. . .......          ....4............................               27
Risks ..........................                               . *****        27
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS.......................                      28



tnnexes:
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Manpower Context - Summary Data
3. Distribution of Urban Unemployment by Level of Education in 1984
4. Non Formal Education and Training System
5. Enrollment, Number of Teachers, and Number of Institutions in the NFVT
System by Type in 1985
6. Number of Places Equipped, Re-equipped, Total Additional Enrollment, and
Estimated Additional Output from Project Supported Institutions
7. Expenditures in Non Formal Educatiton and Training
8. Criteria for Assessing Sub-Projects
9. Information Summary Sheet on Individual Sub-Projects
10. Location of Institutions to be Assisted in the First 'hase
11. Cost of Equipment per Student
12. Unit Recurrent Costs per Student in Selected Trades in 1985
13. Related Documents Available in Project File
14. Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
15. Terms of Reference for the Evaluation Study
Schedules:
I. Technical Assistance Schedult
II. Implementation Schedule
III. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IV. Implementation Plan
Charts:
1. Organization Chart of the MOE
2. Structure of the Education and Training System and Access to NFVT
3. Structure of Technical and Vocational Education in the MOE
4. Structure of the General birectorate of Apprenticeship and Non Formal
Education
5. Project Implementation Structure
Map
Non Formal Vocational Training Institutions in First Phase (IBRD Reference
No. 19788)



(i)
REPUBIUC OF TURKEY
Currencyr Equ'ivaIents
US$1 = 660 Turkish Lira (TL) (April 1986)
100 TL - US$0.152
Fiscai Year
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ATC    -  Apprenticeship Training Centers
ATTC   -  Adult Technical Training Centers
CTTC   -  Commerce/Tourism Train:Lng Centers.
DCTE   -  Directorate of Commerce and Tourism Education
DEAME  -  Directorate of Education Aids, Materials and Equipment
DIEBS  -  Directorate of Investment, Establishment and Building Services
ETS    -  Education and Training System
GDANE  -  General Directorate of Apprenticeship and Non Formal Education
GDTVE  -  General Directorate of Technical and Vocational Education
GDTVEG - General Directorate for Technical and Vocational Education for Girls
ICB    -  International Competitive Bidding
IPTS   -  Industrial Practical Trade School
LCB    -  Local Competitive Bidding
MOE    - Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports
NBS    -  National Board of Education
NFEI   -  Non Formal Education Institute
NFVT   - Non Formal Vocational Training
PIU    -  Project Implementation Unit
PPAR   -  Project Performance Audit Report
PRF    -  Production Revolving Funds
PTC    -  Public Training Center
PTSG   -  Practical Trade School for Girls
SEGEM  -  Industrial Training and Development Center
SOE    -  Statement of Expenditures
TA     -  Technical Assistance
TTTC   -  Technical Teacher Training College
WTC    -  Women Training Centers



(ii)
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Basic Data
(1985)
Country Data
Per-capita GNP 1/                          US$1,200
Total population                           51.0 million
Population growth rate                     2.4% p.a.
Total civilian labor force                 19.3 million
Literacy rate (2 of adults) (1984)         83%
School Enrollment and Expenditure Daca
Female Enroll-
ment as X of
Total        Enrollment as        Total
Enrollments 2/  % of age group    Enrollment
('000)
Level and Age Group
Primary (grades 1-5, ages 7-11)           6,527            108            47
Middle (grades 6-8, ages 12-14)           1,761            48             34
Secondary (grades 9-11, ages 15-17)         962            26             36
Higher Education (grades 12+, ages 18+)    398              10            46
Public Expenditure on Education and Training
Central government expenditures on education
as percentage of total government expenditures                             8.32
Central government expenditures on education
as percentage of GNP                                                       1.1%
Central government capital expenditures on education
as percentage of all capital expenditures                                  2.9%
Central government recurrent expenditures on education
as percentage of all recurrent expenditures                               12.71
Non Formal education and training as a % of total MOE budget               4.1%
1/ Estimated 1984
2/ Gross Enrollment Data: includes over-age students
347 6V/p7



(iii)
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAING PROJECT (NFVI)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Republic of Turkey
Amount:           US$58.5 million
Terms:            Seventeen years, including four years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project           The proposed project supports the Government's efforts to
Descriptioni:      increase and improve the supply of well-trained labor for
manufacturing industries and to improve employment
(including self employment) for young people and adults with
little education and training. The proposed project would
focus on improving the quality of Non Formal Vocational
Training (NFVT) programs and enhancing their relevance to
the labor market needs. It would assist the Ministry of
Education (MOE) in developing a number of critical areas:
instructor training, training needs assessment, curriculum
design, instructional materials development, skill testing
and certification, and entrepreneurship courses. The
proposed project would include the establishment of
Production Revolving Funds (PRFs) to enable training
institutions to generate additional revenues through the
production of items for sale. The proposed project would
also expand the number of training places in various
institutions such as the Apprenticeship Training Centers
(ATCs) and the Public Training Centers (PTCs).
Benefit and       The proposed project would make a valuable contribution
Risks:             towards meeting critical manpower shortages which constrain
economic growth in manufacturing industries and would also
significantly increase basic skill training to improve
employment opportunities for disadvantaged groups including
out-of-school youth and unemployed adults. The major
quantifiable benefit of the proposed project when fully
operational would be an annual output of 60,000 additional
workers with industrial and service skills. The proposed
project would, in addition, strengthen areas critical to the
quality of training, notably, curriculum development and
instructor training and reduce the cost of financing the
NFVT for the Government thrcugh Production Revolving Funds.
The proposed project would be implemented in three
successive phases of approximately two years, each one
comprising a set of sub-projects. Each sub-project would
address the needs of one NFVT institution and include
equipment and minor work. The MOE has successfully
identified, prepared and appraised the first phase of the
project. Therefore, the risk that second and third phase
sub-projects may not be well prepared according to labor
market and community needs is considered minimal.



(V)
Estimated Project Costs
Local           Foreign       Total a/
-- -----(US$Million)--
Public Training Centers (PTCs)                3.1              2Q.1        23.2
Apprenticeship Training Centers (ATCs)        2.1              13.9        15.9
Adult Technical Training Centers (ATTCs)   0.3                  1.9         2.2
Commerce/Tourism Training Centers (CTT^s)  0.2                  1.3         1.4
Women Training Centers (WTCs)                 0.2               1.4         1.6
Instructional Materials                       0.8               0.4         1.3
Production Revolving Funds (PRFs)             2.0               -           2.0
Technical Assistance (TA)                     0.3               3.1         3.4
Total Baseline Costs                          9.0              42.1        51.1
Contingencies
Physical                                    0.5               1.5         2.0
Price                                       3.1              15.0        18.0
Total Project Costs                          12.6              58.5        71.1
Financing Plan
Government                                 12.6               -          12.6
Bank                                         -               58.5        58.5
Total                                        12.6              58.5        71.1
a/ Details of items may not add up to totals because of roundings
Estimated Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year    1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Annual                3.5    3.0    8.0   12.5   14.5   10.5    5.0    1.5
Cumulative            3.5    6.5   14.5   27.0   41.5   52.0   57.0   58.5
Rate of Return: Not applicable.



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL V)CATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING
Manpower Development and Structural Adjustment
1.01     The Government's structural adjustment program,  begun in 1980, has
had considerable success in stabilizing the economy and rationalizing the
fiscal and monetary system. A major component of this program has been the
encouragement of exports in preference to production for the domestic market.
Industrial production and in particular manufactured exports have been the
mainstay  of  the  sustained  economic  growth  experienced  since  1981.   The
industrial sector grew at an average rate of 7.4% betieen 1981-84 and in 1984
accounted for about 28% of GDP, 72% of exports and employed about 13% of the
labor force.  Over the period 1978-83, five industries (ready-made garments,
food processing, textiles, iron and steel and petroleum products) contributed
75% of the increase in manufactured exports; five others (fertilizers,
measuring instruments, furniture, footware and agricultural machinery) were
the fastest growing export industries; together, these 10 industries were
responsible  for  about  80%  of  rhe  increase  in  manufacturing  exports.
Industrial exports have grown at an a',erage rate of 31% between 1981 and
1984.   Export  industries  are  mainly  in  the  private  sector  (80%  of all
exports),  particularly  in  small-  and  medium-scale  light  manufacturing
industries.      1
1.02     The Government's economic strategy has major implications for human
resource development.   The priority now being  given by  the Government  to
exports, development of small-scale industries, and new technology capability,
places  a  premium  on  the  availability  of  highly  skilled,  well-educated
manpower.  In order to improve productivity and maintain high rates of growth
of manufactured exports, an adequate supply of appropriately trained,
productive and skilled manpower is essential. However, given the Government's
goals, the population is under-educated. In 1980, a low 13% of the population
graduated from an educational level above primary and 2.2% from university.
Moreover, the skill distribution of the workforce is striking for the small
proportion of "professional" occupations (less than 0.1%) and particularly for
the low ratio of technicians to scientific and engineering professionals (for
every 1,000 persons employed in the manufacturing sector in 1980, only 7 were
engineers, and only 9 were technicians). A recent Bank study of the Turkish
Electricity  Authority  (TEK)  (which  is  responsible  for  the  generation,
transmission and supply ol electricity in Turkey), found that over 80% of TEK
staff are either unskilled or semi-skilled, a share which should normally be
only 50-65% at the maximum for a utility of tUis type. This situation results
in lower technical expertise within industry, a slower rate of innovation,
less receptivity to modern technology, problems in quality control, poor plant
maintenance, and hence lower levels of productivity.
1.03     Manpower projections completed for the preparation of the Industrial
Schools Project (Loan 2536-TU) show that the supply from the industrial
schools will meet approximately 86% of the estimated labor demand in the



-2-
industry  sector  over  the  period  1985-95.   The  combined  output  from  the
industrial schools and the apprerticeship training system, assisted  through
the proposed project, would still fall short of the projected demand for
skilled and semi-skilled manpower (summary data are provided in Annex 2).
Industrialists regularly report shortages of technicians and craftsmen in
practically  all  trades  but,  in  particular,  in  electrical,  electronics,
automotive, metal machining, metal working and wood working trades. Moreover,
there is a continuing need to upgrade the skills of industrial workers to
ensure the efficient utilization and maintenance of existing and planned
investments in plant and machinery. The principal human resource development
objective of the Government is therefore to assist the economic reforms begun
in the ezrly 1980s, through quantitative and qualitative improvements in the
training of skilled manpower, including apprenticeship training.. The Ministry
of Education (MOE) has begun to expand and upgrade technician and skilled
manpower training, including apprenticeship training which involves practical
training in industrial establishments and study at Apprentice Training Centers
(ATCs).   The proposed project would assist the Government in its effort to
expand the training system and improve the quality of training (para. 2.03).
Employment and Income Generation
1.04     Although  a  detailed  evaluation  of  the  social  impact  of  the
Government's adjustment program is difficult because of the lack of adequate
data, it is clear that Turkey's economic reform program has entailed some
costs. These include increased unemployment 1" (16.5% in 1985 up from 14.8X
in 1980), lower real wages (down 5% in 1984), and a deterioration of income
distribution.  However,  it is reasonable to believe that in the absence of
such an economic reform program, the social indicator picture would appear
worst.
1.05     The distribution of income and wealth is skewed in Turkey, so that
large segments of the population, particularly the urban unemployed and the
inhabitants of the impoverished Eastern regions, have incomes which are a
fraction of the per capita GNP, estimat6, at US$1200 in 1984.  Despite  the
increase in rural incomes over the recent years, disparities between and
within regions, and particularly between urban and rural areas remain
considerable. The rapid urbanization of the population (45% of the population
lived in urban areas of 20,000 or more persons in 1985) has resulted ir. the
growth of "Gecekondus" or squatter settlements. Conditions of life in rural
areas and urban settlements are often harsh and access to basic services such
as health, housing and education remain limited, despite the considerable
improvements which have occurred during the last decades.
1.06     The development of the formal Education and Training System (ETS) is
constrained by the lack of budgetary resources.   The decline  in resources
available to the MOE from 1983 to 1985 (4% in real terms for investment
expenditures and ll% in real terms for recurrent expenditures) has contributed
to the present low levels of educational achievement.   At present,  45% of
pupils drop out at the end of primary education.  The present MOE strategy
calls for expanding provision of middle and secondary schooling, mainly in the
disadvantaged  regions  of  the  country.   However,  the  present  level  of
investment will not allow an expansion of the system sufficient to meet the
1/   According to the broadest measure of unemployment-labor surplus, which
includes disguised unemployment and discouraged workers--unemployment was
16.5% in 1985.



-3-
Plan target.  Projections suggest that by 1990, less than 60% of the 12-17 age
group  will  be  in  school.   This  has  some  serious  economic  and  social
consequences for: Turkey.   These children lack the basic skills which would
allow them to gain employment and given their limited general education (five
years or less), some may even lapse into illiteracy.  Inadequate skill levels
have been identified as a key ingredient  in the unemployment  problem.   A
Manpower Survey, conducted in 1984 by the State Institute of Statistics (SIS),
showed that 50% of the registered urban unemployed have primary education or
less (Annex 3).  The lowest unemployment rate for any individual gru n is male
university graduates (4%) and the second lowest rate of unemployment is
amongst the graduates of the MOE vocational training schools (7%).
1.07     The MOE has established various mechanisms to address the problem of
unemployment among illiterates and school dropouts.  In 1980, the MOE embarked
on a major literacy campaign, aimed at the active population between the ages
of 14 and 44 with special emphasis on women, slum dwellers and agricultural
workers.  The campaign is reported to have raised literacy rates from 67% in
1980 to 83% in 1985. The MOE also provides complementary courses to upgrade
education levels (primary and secondary equivalency programs, for instance).
These courses are an important link between the literacy campaign and non
formal vocational training (NFVT) programs.  Finally, the MOE provides NFVI to
people lacking functional and employable skills, such as school dropouts,
seasonal agricultural workers, people in the urban informal sector enabling
them to capitalize on the existing education and skills of school leavers and
adults. Almost a million people attended NFVT programs in 1985. Typically,
these groups have training needs which are difficult to addr'ss through the
formal education system.  Flexibility is required regarding courso offerings,
levels, duration, timing and location of training.  The NFVT is well-equipped
to meet theqe needs.  It has a well established network of training workshops
in neighborit.g suburbs and villages; its courses are short and intensive and
run on a shift system.
1.08     The Government  is also becoming aware of  the necessity to foster
employment creation in the regions througL the development of labcr intensive
projects.   The  recently  created  Supreme  Council  for  the  Development  and
Coordination  of  Employment  (SCDCE)  focusses  on  small,  labor  intensive,
manufacturing   industries   such  as  ready-made   garments,   carpet  making,
handicrafts, household production projects, or tourism projects in the less
developed regions. This new policy should offset some of the negative effects
of heavy capital subsidization in the industrial sector.  A number of Bank
loans, notably the Labor Intensive Industry Project (Loan 1952-TU) and the
recent  Small- and Medium-Scale  Industry  Project  (Loan  5526-TU)  are  also
assisting employment creation.  The 1985-89 Development Plan provides for a
major expansion of the NFVT system: 650,000 additional people will be trained
in employment relat-A subjects of which 150,000 will be trained in industrial
trades.  The pro-  .d project would improve the quality and availability of
skill training for deprived groups, including those in less developed regions
such as Eastern Turkey (para. 2.03).



- 4-
Non Formal Vocational Training (NFVT)
1.09     An unusual feature of the ETS .n Turkey is the concentration of skill
training in the MOE. In other countries, programs such as apprenticeship, and
vocational training, are often under the aegis of other agencies. A limited
amount of training  is given outside the MOE, mainly on-the-job  industrial
training provided by public and private sector companies. Similarly, the MOE
is the main agency providing NFVT in Turkey  (Annex 4).X'  Coordination is
good, and the problem of managing a system spread over 67 provinces is
minimized because of the decentralized administrative structure of the MOE.
The organizational structure of the MOE is provided in Chart 1. The structure
of education and training and access to NFVT is provided in Chart 2, which
also shows the distinction between non formal and formal vocational training
in Turkey.  Three types of formal vocational training pr)grams are offered by
the MOE: (a) industrial vocational schools; (b) commercial and tourism
vocational schools; and (c) vocational schools for girls.  The Bank already
assists the vocational and technical training system through the Industrial
School Project (Loan 2536-TU).  Industrial Schools offer three and four-year
programs which provide pre-service training for skilled industrial occupations
and  junior  technicians.   NFVT,  where  programs  are  not  tied  to  specific
education le--els and where flexibility is required regarding course offerings,
timing and location, also includes apprenticeship training in Turkey.
1.10     The main responsibility for NFVT within the MOE is assigned to the
General  Directorate  of  Apprenticeship  and  Non  Formal  Education  (GDANE)
(Chorts3 and 4). This General Directorate oversees a country-wide network of
59 Apprenticeship Training Centers (ATCs) and 651 Public Training Centers
(PTCs). Two other General Directorates and one Directorate, mainly involved
in the provision of forLial vocational traiaing programs, also run NFVT
programs: the General Directorate of Technical and Vocational Education
(GDTVE), the General Directorate of Technical and Vocational Education for
Girls (GDTVEG) and the Directorate of Commerce and Tourism Education (DCTE).
However, GDANE has responsibility for ensuring coordination and collaboration
within the MOE, and with other Ministries, autonomous educational institutions
and public and private enterprises conducting similar activities.
1.11     The  apprenticeship  system  provides  training  in  40  trades.   The
minimum entry age and educational requirements are twelve years and completion
of primary education.  For the first two to four years (duration depends upon
trade specialization), apprentices receive eight hours of training every week
in ATCs (256 hours per year) to qualify as journeymen. An additional three
years of training, on the basis of half a day per week, is offered to
journeymen  to  qualify  as  craftsmen.   A  further  18 hours  of  pedagogical
training is offered to craftsmen to qualify as masters, which allow them to
take  apprentices  under  their  responsibility.   Linkages  with  industry are
generally good and employers provide buildings, and part-time instructors to
the centers. The Council of Apprenticeship Training in Ankara, which includes
representatives from industry, makes recommendations to the MOE regarding
training  policies.   Apprenticeship Training Councils in the provinces  have
primary  responsibility   for  overseeing   training   and   certification   of
apprentices.
1/   Annex 4 provides a description of the Non Formal Education and Training
System in Turkey, its national and regional training organization and
management.



- 5 -
1.12     In the case of Public Training Centers (PTCs), courses from four to
eight months' duration are provided in 149 trades to young people and adults
having the equivalent of primary education. The range of programs offered is
wide and includes: (a) occupational training in trades such as electrical
installation and maintenance, plumbing, machine tool operation, furniture
making, tailoring, carpet making and handicrafts; (b) training in service
skills such as accounting, secretarial skills, foreign languages; (c)
productive skills programs for households such as knitting and garment making;
and (d) programs for rural regions in horticulture, animal husbandry, etc.
Linkages with industries and other professional organizations are also good,
as evidenced by the participation of local government services, chambers of
industry, commerce, agriculture, and development banks in the Adult Education
Planning  and  Coordination  Board  at  the  sub-provincial  level.   The Adult
Technical Training Centers (ATTCs) under the responsibility of GDTVE provide
courses geared to the needs of adults already employed who want to upgrade
their industrial skills  or  change  careers.   The  Commerce/Tourism  Training
Centers (CTTCs) under the responsibility of DCTE focus primarily on service
skills.   Finally,  the Women Training Centers  (WTCs) under GDTVEG focus on
advanced production skills for garment industries.
1.13     In  1985,  some  900,000  persons  participated  in  such MOE programs
(Annex 5).  This degree of participation reflects strong commitment by toth
the Government and trainees and has significant potential for economic
development.   The proposed project would assist  the MOE  to develop  these
training programs, increase their relevance to the development needs of the
regions and improve their quality.
Issues in Non Formal Vocational Training (NFVT)
1.14     The  recently  issued  Education  and  Training  Sector  Survey   '
concludes that Turkey has a well-administered and low cost system of NFVT.
The report, however, identifies a number of issues, which if resolved would
make the system more effective and would maximize investments already mada in
this sub-sector. The proposed project addresses these issues which include:
provision   of   apprenticeship   training,   program   design,   provision   of
instructors, and financing of NFVT institutions.
1.15     Provision  of  Apprenticeship  Training  System.   There  is  a  long
tradition of apprenticeship training in Turkey.   However, until 1977, this
training took place mainly in an unregulated fashion with apprentices
receiving all their training on the job. This type of training proved to be
deficient because apprentices were not provided with the theory associated
with their trade specialization and their practical training was geared to
very narrow production activities.
1.16     Consequently,  the  Government  together  with  industrial  employers
decided  to provide more  structured  training opportunities.   The resulting
Apprenticeship Training Law (No. 2089 enacted in 1977) provides for a more
comprehensive and better structured apprenticeship system. Moreover, in light
of  the  shortage  of  skilled  industrial  manpower,  the  development  of
apprenticeship training is a priority for the Government and the number of
apprentices formally registered with the MOE increased from approximately
1/   IBRD Turkey Education and Training Sector Survey (Report No.  6249-TU),
September 1986.



3,000 in 1982 to 13,000 in 1985. The MOE plans to open a total of 45 new ATCs
in industrial areas during the next four years through joint effort with
industries.   The proposed project would help the MOE to expand the capacity
and improve the quality of the apprenticeship training system (para. 2.02).
1.17     Program Design.  A number of mechanisms have been established within
the MOE to identify training needs and determine upon course content.  These
include mauipower surveys at the sub-provincial level as well as more specific
localized surveys carried out by individual training centers.  Currently these
manpower surveys do not include a detailed assessment of local economic
conditions and prospects nor do they evaluate the potential for self
employment and income generation.  Moreover, the surveys should be conducted
on a regular basis, to allow the NFVT system to respond rapidly and flexibly
to changing local and national labor market needs. The proposed project would
improve training needs surveys to enhance the relevance of training programs
to the labor market needs (para. 2.07).
1.18     A second issue is the quality and appropriateness of the courses.
Curricula currently in use in NFVT often need redesigning to meet the specific
requirements of people with little formal education.  The main providers of
NFVT within the MOE offer a total of 135 different courses.   The National
Board of Education (NBE) is the ultimate authority for curriculum reform while
GDANE, assisted by the Non Formal Education Institute (NFEI) (Chart IV), has
day-to-day  responsibility  for  curriculum  design and development.   However,
GDANE and NFEI staff need to upgrade and update their knowledge and skills in
all aspects of program design and necessary provision for staff training would
be included in the proposed projects (paras. 2.06 through 2.12). The NFEI is
revising and updating curricula, placing emphasis in key trades on modular
programs where learning is self-paced. Modern textbooks specifically designed
for adult training courses are often lacking and learning materials need
redesigning to suit  learners  with  little  formal  education.   The  proposed
project would provide technical assistance in the area of curriculum design
and  development  and  would  finar.ce  the  acquisition  of  textbooks  and
instructional materials for existing and new NFVT programs (para. 2.08).
4'
1.19     Finally, NFVT programs are often hampered by the lack of equipment in
training institutions. In many cases urgently needed industrial trade courses
cannot be offered for lack of equipment.  Consequently, courses have often
been developed which require minimal training equipment such as sewing and
garment-making. This accounts for the high proportion of females in the PTCs
(65%). There is a considerable need for new equipment in the workshops of the
majority of NFVT institutions, both to extend the range of courses and replace
outmoded  items.   The  proposed  project  would  assist  the  Government  by
re-equipping   approximately   16,600   training   places   and   by   equipping
approximately 16,300 new training places over the life of the project (paras.
2.13 through 2.19).
1.20     Provision of  Instructors.   The success of NFVT depends to a large
extent upon the skills of its instructors.   In light of the rapid change in
technology and given the new training programs which are being developed by
the MOE, instructors' skills need to be upgraded periodically. At the same
time the MOE relies heavily on part-time instructors who need intensive
induction training as well as upgrading.  The existing system of in-service
training needs strengthening and streamlining to accommodate the high volume
of training activities.



1.21     Some 16,000 instructors are employed in PTCs and ATCs.  The sources
of supply for instructors vary from one type of program to another. PTCs rely
heavily on part-time instructors (12,000 in 1986 or 76% of the total).  The
part-time instructors are qualified workers from industrial establishments or
independent craftsmen who teach students according to a flexible schedule
(some teach evening classes, others during certain hours of the day or during
weekends).  Thij arrangement--of a permanent core of key teaching staff, with
additional teachers on demand--is a ve-y effective, flexible and inexpensive
way of providing courses, particularly in the context of changing demand.
Full-time teaching staff consists of:   (a) 235 master instructors  who are
graduates   of   the   four-year   program   in  one   of   the   Faculties   of
TechnicalJVocational Education and who also provide in-service training to new
staff; (b) 2,385 instructors who are graduates of two-year pre-service
instructor training programs in the Faculties of Vocational Education in
Ankara and Konya; and (c) 1,150 master instructors who have graduated either
from the apprenticeship training system or from vocational secondary schools
and have received pedagogical training. GDANE provides two-month pre-service
training programs for master instructors and vocational secondary school
graduates at selected PTCs.
1.22     All  the instructors  in ATCs  are  full  time  and  the majority  are
graduates   from  Faculties  of  Technical/Vocational   Education  or  master
instructors who have received pedagogical training. In the case of ATTCs and
CTTCs (which are generally attached to secondary vocational training schools),
the same instructors provide both types of training, and overtime is paid.
Finally, in the case of WTCs, graduates from the Faculties of Vocational
Training in Ankara and Konya, or experienced workers are currently used.
Table 1.1:  ESTIMATED ANNUAL DEMAND FOR NEW T4S1RUCTORS
IN PTCs AND ATCs (1987-94)
Additional no.
Instructors    required between   Annual
in 1986            1987-94       Demand
Public Training         Full Time        3,770             1,670          210
Centers (PTCs)        Part Time       12,000            5,900         \ 730
Total           15,770            7,570           940
Apprenticeship          Full Time          450               310           40
Training Centers      Part Time           -                 -            -
(ATCs)             Total              450               310            40
Total                   Full Time        4,220             1,980          250
Part Time      12,000             5,900           730
Total          16,220             7,880           980
Source: Mission estimates



1.23          Table  1.1  provides  the  estimated  annual  demand  for  new
instructors in PTCs and ATCs, between 1987 and 1994, when the proposed
expansion has been completed. The annual demand reflects: (a) the demand for
new instructors resulting from the creation of new programs; (b) the turnover
in the instructor force estimated at 5S per annum.  It is estimated that out
of a total of 980 new instructors who will be required every year,
approximately  730  would  be  recruited  part-time,  which  represents   a
continuation of the present policy and which is consistent with the degree of
flexibility required in the provision of NFVT programs.   The remaining 250
would be recruited as full-time instructors each year either from one of the
Faculties of Vocational Education (470 graduates in 1985), or from the
Industrial Schools (30,000 graduates in 1985).
1.24          The Education and Training Sector Survey (para. 1.14) underlines
some of the deficiencies in the training being carvied out at the Faculties of
Vocational and Technical Education.  The faculties are inadequately staffed,
improperly equipped, and lacking the requisite pedagogical materials or
training curricula. While the Government has already initiated some measures
to improve training of vocational teachers and instructors, the proposed
project, by strengthening in-service instructor training, would correct the
deficiencies  of  existing  instructors.   At  the  same  time,  experience  in
upgrading in-service training programs would be used as an input in the
upgrading of programs at the Faculties of Technical and Vocational Education.
The MOE has been able to attract and retain instructors. The average monthly
salary of instructors in NFVT is currently TL 50,000, which is comparable with
salary levels they would receive as supervisors or as training officers in the
private sector.
1.25          In light of the large number of instructors employed in the NFVT
system and the reliance on part-time instructors, in-service training plays a
key role. In 1985, a total of 10 itn-service training courses were organized
for some 1,500 instructors in selected PTCs in the Provinces and another 4
instructor training courses were organized for 320 instructors centrally in
Ankara. This training program involved about 10% of all instructors. The MOE
needs to increase the rhythm and volume of in-service instructor training.  It
is considered that every three years, instructors should upgrade their skills
which means that approximately 5,000 instructors should receive in-service
training annually by 1991. The proposed project would assist the MOE in this
task by upgrading the level of instructor trainers and by developing new and
improved training programs (para. 2.06).
1.26          Financing  NFVT  institutions.   Total  inxestment  and  recurrent
expenditures  devoted  to  Non  Formal  Education  and  Training  represented
approximately 4% of the total MOE budget in 1985 (Annex 6).  Although the
1985-89 Development Plan includes a provision for further development of NFVT
(para. 1.08), it is unlikely, in view of the present budgetary constraints,
that the level of resources devoted to NFVT will increase significantly over
the  period.   Considerable  efforts  are  already  being  made  to  generate
non-governmental sources of income and ease the burden on public resources
through privatization.  At the University level, fees were first charged in
academic year 1984/85, and were doubled in acade-iic year 1985/86. Fee income
at universities represented about 6% of the recurrent budget in 1985.
Similarly, private education exists in Turkey, mainly at the secondary level
(42 of enrollment), and a private university will enroll its first students in
September 1987.



_9-
1.27          Private  enterprises  already  contribute  significantly  to  the
apprenticeship training scheme.  The majority of ATCs have been provided by
industries and the 45 new centers to be opened over the next four years will
be built by them. Moreover, companies often provide part-time instructors.
These contributions outweigh the revenues that are normally generated through
a levy system.   While opportunities for 4ntroducing fees in NFVT are  low
(given the low income level of the target population), the MOE has a long
standing policy of generating additional revenues through the Voluntary
Associations.   These  associations,  which  exist  in  the  majority  of  PTCs
institutions, raise funds which are used to finance the institutions.
Trainees  contribute  up  to  TL  6,000  per  course  to  these  Voluntary
Associations.  Even.-if one out of four trainees does not contribu:e, it is
estimated that TL 3 billion are generated through Voluntary Associations or
201 of the MOE recurrent budget devoted to non formal education and training
in 1985 (TL 15.2 billion). Thus, the MOE has made a promising start at cost
recovery in NFVT.
1.28          The MOE also operates a system of Production Revolving Funds
(PRFs) which makes it possible for the training centers to make initial
purchases of materials tc produce items for sale, thus replenishing the outlay
and creating additional revenues.  The initial deposit is made from the MOE
budget on a one time basis.   Items produced include simple wood products,
ironwork, clothes and handicrafts.   Production is useful because it exposes
trainees to the financial, organizational and quality control aspects as well
as  honing  their  skills.   The MOE  has  a directorate  responsible  for  the
admini&tration of PRFs. The PRF system has been in existence since 1938 and
past  experience  has  been positive.   PRF administrators  with business and
accountit.g experience have been trained. The MOE has also prepared guidelines
which ensure that production is geared to instructional requirements.  The MOE
is now in the process of introducing PRFs to all NFVT institutions.
1.29          In 1985, a total of 520 PRFs were in operation within the MOE,
the majority located in industrial schools and vocational schools for girls.
The capital on these PRFs is in general very small (TL 50,000) but some have a
capital as high as TL 25 million.  The amount of money revolving can be as
high as TL 130 million  in some  centers.   The sMOE's  Directorate  of  PRFs
monitors financial status of all PRFs on the basis of mont'hly financial
statements. Accounts which follow Turkish accounting procedures, are audited
annually by government auditors.  Profits represent 151 to 202 of the sale
value of products manufactured in the centers. Profits can be reinvested to
purchase additional equipment with authorization of the Ministry of Finance.
Some vocational training centers have acquired considerable equipment through
this process. The Government is now trying to provide some flexibility in the
way profits are being used to finance both investment and recurrent
expenditures.
1.30          Conservative estimates show that considerable revenues could be
generated through the introduction of PRFs to all PTCs and CTTCs (700
institutions). Assuming that the capital of each PRF is US$10,000 equivalent
in TL, that the amount of money revolving in a year is only 5 times the amount
of the capital and that profits generated represent a low 10% of total sales,
it is estimated that TL 2.3 billion could be genorated each year (or 15% of
the MOE recurrent budget devoted to non formal education and training in
1985.   Revenues generated by both the Voluntary Associations and the PRFs
would represent as much as 352 of total recurrent expenditures devoted by the



- 10 -
MOE to NFVT in 1985 which would be a significant achievement for the MOE. The
recently issued Apprenticesh5p and Vocational Training Law (Law No. 3308 dated
JLLne 6, 1986) allows the MOE to establish PRFs in NFVT institutions.   The
proposed project would assist the MOE in opening PRFs in all institutions
assisted through the project, which do not at present have PRFs (para. 2.20).
Government Education/Training Strategy and Bank Lending
1.31          Government  Strategy.   The Government's development policy for
the 4TS is to improve both quality and quantity of educated and skilled
manpower to meet the needs of a modernizing economy, whilst at the same time
catering  to  the needs  of  deprived  groups.   The  Government's  priorities,
reflected in the 1985-89 Development Plan, show a shift of emphasis from the
development of general education to the development of training serving the
needs  of an  export-oriented  economy, which  is appropriate.   In  order  to
facilitate the growth of the industrial sector by ensuring an adequate
provision of suitably trained manpower, the Government is proposing to expand
technical and vocational education. Enrollments in upper secondary technical
and vocational education are expected to increase from 13% to 20% of the age
group (15-17) as opposed to a modest increase in upper secondary general
education from 17% to 18% of the age group. At the same time the growth of
unemployment combined with apparent skill shortages has led the Government to
develop and improve NFVT for school leavers, the unemployed and those already
employed to provide improved opportunities for employment, career development,
and income generation. The Government regards NFVT as an essential vehicle to
reach a number of disadvantaged groups such as women, the urban poor, and the
population of less developed areas such as Eastern Turkey.  As noted above the
Government is aware of the necessity to control costs and mobilize additional
resources for education and training to be able to implement its strategy
(paras. 1.26 through 1.30).
1.32          Bav' Lending Strategy.  Bank lending in Turkey in the education
sector has concentrated on supporting industrial training.  There have been
three Bank loans.  The First Education Project (Loan 748-TU) was signed in
1971  and  was  completed  in  1981.   This  project  supported  32  four-year
industrial schools, the Technical Teacher Training College (TTTC) in Ankara,
as well as the Educational Science Equipment Production Center, and the
Elucation, Film, Radio and Television Center.  The Project Performance Audit
1feport (PPAR) No..4018 (dated June 28, 1982) noted the good performance of the
project with equipment well used and maintained and enrollments in the
industrial schools practically as anticipated at appraisal.  The Industrial
Training Project (Loan 2399-T;U) effective September 1984, is with the Council
for Higher Educationr  E Ij), the Industrial Training and Development Center
(SEGEM), and the State.Institute of Statistics.  The project objectives are to
support pre-service training of senior industrial technicians with Y6k,
in-service training of technicians and professionals in industry under SEGEM,
and  to assist  the Government  to improve the quality of  their statistical
services through training for the SIS.  The Industrial Schools Project (Loan
2536-TU), effective July 1985 is with the MOE.  The project objectives are to
support priority industrial training programs to improve productivity and
assist the maintenance of high rates of economic growth, particularly in the
manufacturing/exporting sectors, and to strengthen the capacity of the MOE to
manage  the vocational  training system.   Implementation of the two ongoing
projects is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 11 -
1.33          Recently,  as  the need  to  correct  the effects  of structural
adjustment, particularly unemployment, has become mere pressing, a broader
range of skill training areas has emerged for potential Bank support.  The
Bank has recently been working with the Government on an exten,ive review of
education and training (para. 1.14). A major recommendation of the survey is
that Non Formal Training Programs need to be: (a) improved to increase their
relevancy to labor market needs, self employment and income generation; and
(b) expanded to include more school drop-outs in the 12-15 age group.
1.34,         Experience with Past Lending.  Lessons learned from past lending
have been  incorporated  in  the  proposed  project.   The PPAR for the First
Education Project (Loan 748-TU) cited the lack of a well-defined Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) with adequate authority, as a weakness of the
project. The PIU created in the MOE under the Industrial School Project (Loan
2536-TU) is functioning well and will be further strengthened in the proposed
project (para. 2.21). While serious problems were noted in the construction
of new buildings, these issues are not relevant to the current project which
does not include construction of new facilities. the PPAR also questioned the
depth of government support to the proposed technical assistance program under
the First Education Project.  The TA for the proposed project was designed
with extensive assistance of both the planners and providers of NFVT (e.g.
State  Planning  Organization,   Supreme  Council  for  the  Development  and
Coordination of Employment, as well as various employers associations and
development banks during a two-days-in-country workshop organized during
appraisal.



- 12 -
II. THE PROJECT
Introducticn
2.01     The proposed project was prepared by the Government following a Bank
project identification mission in September 1985, and a subsequent Bank
prepaTation mission in December 1985. The project was appraised in April 1986.
Obiectives and Scope
2.02     The proposed project has two objectives: (a) to increase and improve
the supply of well-trained labor for manufacturing industries; and (b) to
improve employment and income generation opportunities for disadvantaged
groups with little education and training. These objectives would be achieved
by improving the quality of NFVT programs and enhancing their relevance to the
labor market needs, and by expanding the number of training places in various
institutions such as the ATCs and the PTCs.
2.03     The proposed project would include:
(a) technical assistance for training program design and development (126
months of specialist services and 687 months of fellowships) to
improve the effectiveness of the in-service instructor training
system; to strengthen vocational training programs through improved
training needs assessment, curriculum design and instructional
materials development; to develop skill testing and certification
standards; and to develop entrepreneurship courses;
(b) provision of training equipment and minor civil works for NFVT
institutions to re-equip 16,600 existing places and equip 16,300 new
places; and
(c) introduction  of  about  200  Production  Revolving  Funds  (PRFs)
established  for  the  purchase  of  consumable  materials  for  NFVT
institutions.
Training Program Design and Development
2.04     The proposed project would assist  the MOE to develop a number of
programs  and  services  related  to:  instructor  training,   training  needs
assessment, curriculum design, instructional materials development, skill
testing and certification, entrepreneurship courses, and evaluation of
programs (Schedule I).
2.05     The main responsibility for carrying out this program rests with the
GDANE  (para.  1.10).  It.-will  be assisted  by  the NFEI.   This  institute,
established by GDANE in 1977, focusses on program design, development of
instructional materials and in-service training for NFVT instructors and staff
(Chart IV). The institute has been strengthened over the last few years, with
assistance from UNDP and UNESCO, and the number of staff increased from 12 in
1984 to 38 in 1986.  The NFEI and the GDANE would be further strengthened
under the proposed project through the provision of expert services and
fellowships (para. 2.03).



- 13 -
2.06     Instructor Training.  A critical factor in the development of NFVT
programs is the MOE's capacity to provide regular and systematic in-service
training to instructors. The in-service instructor training system needs both
strengthening and expanding to cover 30X of the total number of instructors
antsally  (para.  1.25).   The  proposed  project  would  provide  technical
assistance to design an improved program of in-service training for
instructors and to enhance the skills of existing instructor trainers.  The
NFEI  would  coordinate  the  development  of  these  programs.   In-service
instructor training would be organized in each trade specialization in
selected  NFVT centers  run by  GDANE.   In order  to upgrade,  organize  and
coordinate in-service instructor training courses run by GDANE, including
training programs for instructors in entrepreneurship development, the
proposed project would provide 36 months of expert services. As part of their
responsibilities, experts would train 50 local counterparts. In addition, the
proposed project would provide 360 months of fellowship training for 50 key
instructor training staff in specific skill areas including in-service
training program design and entrepreneurship development.
2.07     Training  Needs  Assessment,  Curriculum  Design  and  Instructional
Materials  Development.   In  order  to  increase  the  relevance  of  training
programs to labor market needs, training needs surveys would assess local
labor demand and self employment opportunities by using improved methods and
instruments developed by NFEI.  These surveys would  be normally  conducted
every two years by teams from the training centers, coordinated by the Adult
Education Planning and Coordination Board.  In order to assist NFEI develop
and implement the labor needs surveys, the proposed project would provide one
specialist for 12 months.
2.08     The NFEI would update existing NFVT programs and prepare new ones and
would  provide  relevant  staff  training.   The  project  would  provide  one
specialist in program design for 18 months and 105 months of fellowships to
train local specialists in training needs assessment and program design.  The
proposed project would also assist GDANE to develop local expertise in
developing instructional materials, including training modules. To strengthen
GDANE's capacity ia this, area, the project would include one curriculum
specialist for 12 months and provide 80 months of fellowship training.  In
order to ensure that instructors and students in NFVT Centers have access to
current training materials, the proposed project would assist GDANE by
providing for: (a) the acquisition of modular training programs and textbooks,
including a one-time fee for copyright acquisition and royalty payments; and
(b) translation and printing of these materials.
2.09     Skill Testing and Certification.   To improve the employability  of
NFVT  graduates,  GDANE  would  develop  skill  standards  and  certification
procedures.   The  detailed  information,  collected  through  training  needs
assessment studies (para. 2.07) and translated into programs would conform to
industry occupational standards which are presently being developed. National
certification standards based on obj;4ctive performance criteria would be
developed  with  the  participation  of  employers.   The  NFEI  would  prepare
guidelines for skill testing and certification and would train instructors to
test skills and assess performance.   The proposed project would strengthen
GDANE's capacity to develop skill standards and certification procedures by
providing 12 months of specialist service and 36 months of fellowship.



- 14 -
2.10     Entrepreneurship Courses.  A major concern of GDANE is to improve
self-employment and income generation  opportunities  for  its  graduates.   A
significant proportion of NFVT graduates will, as a result of training, engage
in income generation activities (household production, services within the
community) or move into self employment (artisans, maintenance workshops). To
facilitate   this,   it  is  essential   for  GDANE   to  provide  access   to
entrepreneurship training, credit facilities and advisory services.
2.11     The MOE would  provide  courses  in entrepreneurship development  in
different locations in the country.  With the help of technical assistance,
new curricula would be developed and instructor trainers would be trained in
the  field  of  entrepreneurship  development  (para.  2.06).   MOE  would  also
develop an information system for the graduates which would assist them with
finding appropriate  credit  fa ilities  and advisory  services.   Some  local
development banks (such as Halk Bank and Sumerbank) offer credit facilities
and marketing services to individual entrepreneurs, and such arrangements
would be expanded. The proposed project would provide 24 months of specialist
services  to  establish  entrepreneurship   training   courses   and   develop
cooperative  arrangements  with  financial  and  extension  organizations.   In
addition, 50 months of fellowship training would be provided to equip MOE
staff in developing entrepreneurship development programs.
2.12     Evaluation -of NFVT Programs.  In order to ensure planning, design and
implementation of high quality NFVT programs, the GDANE would conduct a
mid-term evaluation study during the third year of the project.  To assist
GDANE with this study, which would also include a follow up of graduates
employment experience, the project would provide an evaluation specialist for
6 man-months. During negotiations the Government provided assurances that the
study would be completed by June 30, 1990 (para. 6.02). Terms of reference of
this evaluation study is provided in Annex 15.
Assistance to NFVT Institutions: Sub-Projects
2.13     To enable the MOE to respond rapidly and flexibly to changing local
and national labor market needs, the provision of training equipment and minor
works for NFVT institutions would be implemented in three successive phases of
approximately two years.  Each phase would include a number of sub-projects,
which would address the needs of one NFVT institution and include equipment
and minor works.    The main Directorates within the Department of Technical
and Vocational Education of MOE (Chart III) would review and appraise
sub-project requests in accordance with agreed criteria (Annex 8). Given its
sound performance in preparing sub-projects to be financed in the first phase,
the MOE has demonstrated its capacity to prepare further sub-projects for
financing in the second and third phases.  It is anticipated that the proposed
project would include approximately 268 institutions: 160 PTCs, 54 ATCs, 9
ATTCs, 30 CTTCs and 15 WTCs.  The number of training places to be re-equipped
or equipped, and total enrollment in project institutions assisted in the
first phase and in the next two phases is provided in Table 2.1.



- 15 -
Table 2.1: NUMBER OF NFVT TRAINING PLACES RE-EQUIPPED OR EQUIPPED
AND TOTAL ENROLLMENT IN PROJECT INSTITUTIONS 1/
Number of Training Places      Additional              Total
Training      Existing to be  New to be  Enrollment (1994) 2/ Enrollment (1994)
Centers      Re-equipped      Equipped           (New)           (Existing & New)
Phase One
PTCs  (40)     3,000           3,020           20,300              55,900
ATCs  (18)      1,500            280            1,400               9,440
ATTCs ( 3)                       180              360                  360
CTTCs (10)        200            400              960               1,550
WTCs  ( 3)         60            180              360                  510
Total (74)     4,760           4,060           23,380              67,760
Phases Two and Three
PTCs  (120)   10,200           7,880           44,900              88,600
ATCs  ( 36)    1,000           2,520           12,600              17,56C
ATTCs (  5)                      320              740                  740
CTTCs ( 20)      400             800            1,940               2,750
WTCs  ( 12)       240            720            1,440               1,890
Total (194)   11,840          12,240           61,620             111,540
GRAND TOTAL       16,600         16,300           85,000             179,300
I/ Annex 6
2/ i994 is the year when all institutions assisted are working at full capacity
2.14     Public Training Centers (PTCs).  The proposed project would provide
minor refurbishing and training equipment to 40 PTCs (see map and Annex 10) in
the first phase and to some 120 additional PTCs in the subsequent two phases.
The centers included in the first phase are located in major industrial areas
(30%) and Eastern Turkey  (701).   Programs  to be assisted in these centers
would increase the employability and income generation opportunities amongst
groups with limited access to formal education and training.
2.15     In the first phase a total of 22 existing trade specializations would
be  assisted.   Of  these,  7 trade  specializations  are  in  industrial  areas
(electrical, electronic, metal working, welding, woodworking, automotive and
engineering drawing), 12 trade specializations are particularly suitable for
income generation activities (sewing, cloth tailoring, leather tailoring,
knitting, machine embroidery, carpet weaving, tapestry, blanket making, food
processing, handicrafts, book binding and shoemaking), 2 trade specializations
are in construction (plumbing and bricklaying), and 3 in business (accounting
skills, secretarial skills, and foreign languages). Two trade specializations
(shoemaking  and   leather  garments)  are  new  to  these  centers.    Trade
specializations were selected by the MOE on the basis of employment and income



- 16 -
generation opportunities, in the districts where PTCs are located.  Linkages
with  industries  and  services  are  good  and  a  number  of  professional
organizations, companies and banks are represented in the Adult Education
Planning and Coordinatior Board which is responsible for the planning and
coordination of NFVT activities at the sub-provincial level (Annex 4).
2.16     Annual enrollment in the 24 trades assisted in the first phase would
be about 55,900 by 1994 of which 20,300 would be additional enrollment due to
the creation of new training places.   The  additional  enrollment would be
accommodated in existing training centers or in buildings provided under a
well-established policy of the municipalities free of charge, where there is
shortage of workshop space.  Estimated additional annual output from project
institutions assisted in all phases would be 52,200 by 1994 (Annex 6).
Women's participation in PTC programs ranges from 65% to 70% of enrollment,
the vast majority being enrolled in income generation specializations for
which  there  is  a  high  demand.   Instructional  programs  in  most  trade
specializations included in the first tranche vary from 200 to 1,200 hours and
are covered through 10 to 35 hours of practical training and class-room
instruction per week and run in up to three shifts.  On average,  programs
devote about 80% of the time to practical work and 202 to relevant theory.
2.17     Apprenticeship Training Centers (ATCs).  The proposed project would
prov.de training equipment to 18 ATCs in the first phase (see map and Annex
10) and  to some  36 additional centers in its subsequent two phases.   In
selecting the 18 ATCs of the first phase, particular attention was given by
the MOE to the links of ATCs with surrounding industries and regional
development requirements.
2.18     A  total  of  6  basic  trade  specializations   (metal  machining,
automotive, wood working, metal working, electrical and electronics) would be
supported in the first phase which would directly serve the needs of the major
export industries (para. 1.02) in the respective regions where ATCs are
located. Annual enrollment in the trades assisted in the first phase would be
about 9,440 of which 1,400 would be additional enrollment due to the creation
of new training places. The buildings available to accommodate this expansion
are adequate and are provided free of charge by companies in industrial
areas.  At project completion estimated additional annual output from these
centers would be some 3,700 by 1994 (Annex 6). The demand for this type of
training is very high and ensures a more than adequate supply of trainees.
2.19     Other NFVT Institutions.   The proposed project would also  provide
minor refurbishment and training equipment to 3 ATTCs, 10 CTCs and 3 WTCs in
the first phase (see Map and Annex 10) and to some additional 6 ATTCs, 20 CTCs
and 12 WTCs in the next two phases. Although the training provided in these
institutions is similar to that provided in PTCs, the content and duration
vary from one type of institution to the others.  In the first phase, the
project    would    support    trade    specializations    such    as:    (a)
electricity/electronics, metal machining, automotive, plumbing and ceramics in
ATTCs; (b) accounting and secretariat skills in CTTCs; and (c) garments,
leather garments, machine embroidery and machine knitting in WTCs.



- 17 -
2.20     Production Revolving Funds (PRFs).  The MOE is now trying to extend
PRFs to the non formal segment of the education and training system. PRFs are
a well-tried and tested financial mechanism with appropriate safeguards
(paras. 1.28 through 1.30). The recently issued Apprenticeship and Vocational
Training Law authorizes the MOE to extend the benefits of PRFs to the PTCs and
other NFVT institutions (para. 1.30). Accordingly, the proposed project would
establish approximately 200 PRF8 to include the initial purchase of
materials. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that PRFs will be
opened or maintained in all institutions assisted by the project with adequate
financing (para. 6.02).
Assistance to Proiect Management
2.21     In order to assist the PIU with the complex procurement requirements
for the estimated 270 NFVT institutions, in a large number of tra'a
specializations, the project would include one procurement specialist for 18
months, commencing in October 1987 (Schedule II), and would also provide 12
months of fellowships for the training of two local procurement officers.
Employment and Income Impacts of Proposed Prolect
2.22     The proposed project would make a  valuable  contribution  towards
meeting critical manpower shortages which constrain economi" growth in
manufacturing industries. It would also significantly increase employment and
income generation opportunities for low income and disadvantaged groups
(including out-of-school youth and unemployed adults). The major quantifiable
benefit would be an annual output of 60,000 additional workers for the
industrial sector as well as other segments of the economy.  About 10,000
persons, already employed in industrial establishments, would, as a result of
training, significantly increase their productivity (100 of apprenticeship
graduates and about 10 of all other graduates), and enhance their career
prospects.   Another  10,000  persons  (202  of  the  graduates  of  the  NFVT
programs), living in the major urban areas would secure employment in the
modern formal sector, and would move from the absolute poverty level
(esat.mated at US$340 in urban areas), to an income level between US$600 and
US$800. The remaining 40,000 live in the rural areas of Eastern Turkey. Of
these, about 24,000 would secure employment in small manufacturing firms or
would open their own small businesses, and 16,000 (mainly women) would engage
in income generation activities at home.  These people would move from the
absolute poverty level (estimated at US$230 in rural areas), to an income
level between US$300 to US$500.



- 18 -
III.  MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project Management
3.01     The project has been designed to build on well-established existing
mechanisms  and structures  within  the MOE.   The proposed project would be
iLplemented by the MOE under the responsibility of the Deputy Undersecretary
for Technical and Vocational Education.  The exist'.ng Management Committee,
headed by the Deputy Undersecretary and comprising the heads of the main
directorates under his control (GDANE, GDTVE, GDTVEG and DCTE), would make the
final selection of sub-projects  to be  included  in each  phase.   The  PIU,
established under the Industrial Schools Project (Loan 2536-TU), would act as
secretariat to the Management Committee and would serve as intermediary
between the MOE and the Bank.  Chart V provides the management structure of
the  proposed  project.   These  management  arrangements  were  confirmed  at
negotiations (para. 6.02).
Implementation Procedures
3.02     Procedures  for  identifying  and  preparing sub-projects were tested
during appraisal.  The Government had prepared, prior to appraisal, a first
set of sub-projects estimated at US$12 million. The appraisal of this first
phase was found acceptable and has demonstrated MOE's capacity to prepare
further suAb-projects for inclusion in the second and third phases.  Further
details of sub-projects are shown in para. 2.13.
3.03     The MOE, through the provincial Directorates of Education (Chart V),
would advise individual institutions about the requirements for sub-project
identification, including the items eligible for project financing.   On the
basis of surveys of training needs completed at the sub-provincial level under
the guidance of the Adult Education Planning and Coordination Board (para.
2.07), individual NFVT Centers would send their sub-project requests to the
Director  of NFVT at  the provincial  level.   After  review  and  selection,
sub-project requests would be sent from the MOE provincial administration to
the  MOE  central  administration  in  Ankara.   The  proposed  project  would
encourage local initiative with regard to the preparation of sub-projects and
would strengthen the capacity of the MOE at the central level to appraise
sub-projects.
3.04     Individual NFVT institutions would prepare their sub-project requests
according to a standard format. The information requested by the MOE on each
individual sub-project has been summarized in Annex 9 for one of the
institutions visited during appraisal and included in the first phase.  This
format would be used and adapted as required in the light of experience, for
application for financing in the next two phases.
3.05     The  main  directorates  within  the  Department  of  Technical  and
Vocational  Education  would  appraise  and  review  sub-project  requests  in
accordance with criteria agreed upon with the Bank.  These criteria, provided
in Annex 8, were applied in the appraisal of sub-projects in the first phase,
and would be used in the next two phases. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that the criteria used in selecting sub-projects in the
first phase will be used in the next two phases (para. 6.02).



- 19 -
3.06     For the next two phases, the PIU acting as the Secretariat of the
Management Committee (para. 3.01) would submit sub-project proposals to the
Bank for approval  two and four years,  respectively,  into the life of the
project.   The Bank would review these proposals to ensure compliance with
guidelines set forth in Annex 8.  The Bank would also review the sub-project
appraisal and selection process.   In addition,  the  Bank  would  selectively
review sub-projects to ensure that implementation has proceeded in accordance
with sub-project appraisals.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.07     NFVT  programs  are  regularly  monitored  and  evaluated  by  GDANE,
together with the other General Directorates of MOE. They carry out periodic
surveys to ensure that programs match the needs, ibile at the sub-provincial
level the Adult Education Planning and Coordination Board provides continuous
feedback from employers.  These activities will be maintained and reinforced
under project with technical assistance.  The relevant General Directorates
would systematically collect information on the status of their respective
components and the PIU Director would submit quarterly progrece reports to the
Assistant Undersecretary and to the Bank. These reports would form the basis
of the mid-term project evaluation studly, which would also include a follow-up
of graduate employment experience (para. 2.12).
Implementation of the Project
3.08     The responsibility for the training aspects of the proposed project
will be assigned to the relevant directorates, under the coordinatioa of the
Deputy Undersecretary for Technical and Vocational Education  (para.  3.01).
Under the proposed project, these directorates would have the responsibility
for reviewing and modifying curricula, organizing in-service training for
instructors, coordinating technical assistance and identifying fellowship
candidates.
3.09     The  PIU would  be  responsible  for  coordinating  the  work  of  the
implementing departments, monitoring progress, keeping project accounts and
liaising with the Bank.  The PIU would also be responsible for procurement of
goods  and  services,  including technical assistance.   The PIU is currently
staffed by a director,  a training officer and a procureinent  officer.   An
additional post of educational advisor to the PIU director has recently been
filled.   Budget  provisions  have  been  made  for  the  recruitment  of  an
accountant, a planning officer, and additional support staff.  All positions
already budgeted would be filled by December 1987 and three additional
positions would be created, namely: two assistant director positi.ons to
supervise ongoing activities and the proposed project and one additional
procurement  officer  position.   The  proposed  project  would  strengthen  the
capacity of the PIU to deal with large numbers of equipment contracts by
providing technical assistance (both expert-services and fellowships) in the
area  of  procurement  (para.  2.21).   During  negotiations,  the  Government
provided assurances that the PIU would be strengthened and maintained as
indicated above with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (para. 6.02).
3.10     Finally, two other directorates would be involved  in the physical
aspects  of  project  implementation.   The  Directorate  of  Educatiorn  Aids,
Materials and Equipment (DIEBS), staffed by about 70 professionals, would be



- 20 -
responsible   for   supervising   the   execution   of   equipment   contracts,
certification   of   payments,   inspections,   warehousing,   distribution   to
institutions,  installation,  commissioning  and  settlements  of  claims.   The
Directorate of Investment, Establishment and Building Services, also staffed
by 70 professionals, would arrange for minor modifications and refurbishment
to existing buildings in the institutions assisted in the project.
3.11     Maintenance.  Maintenance of all physical facilities is supervised by
DIEBS. Instructors assume responsibility for the maintenance of equipment in
their workshops. These arrangements function satisfactorily.
Implementation Schedule
3.12     The MOE has prepared a schedule for implementation of the proposed
project which would be completed in about eight years (current country
disbursement profile for all types of projects in Turkey), in accordance with
Implementation Schedule II.  Project completion would be June 1995 and the
Loan Closing Date would be December 31, 1995.
Status of Preparation
3.13     The project is at an advanced state of preparation.  The centers to
be assisted under the first of the three proposed phases have been selected.
Equipment lists, acceptable to the Bank, have been prepared for training
places to be equipped or re-equipped in the first phase and grouped into
packages.  Terms of reference for technical assistance (Annex 14), including
job descriptions and work programs for the specialists, and duration and type
of training for fellowships, have been discussed and agreed with the
Government during negotiations (para. 6.01). Given the status of preparation,
it is expected that by loan effectiveness (July 1987) tendering for the TA and
the first equipment procurement can begin.
Project Sustainability
3.14     Prospects  for  sustainability  of  the  proposed  project  components,
which extend a well-tested and roven system of NFVT, are excellent because
of: (a) strong government commitment (para. 1.13); (b) strong demand for NFVT
programs (paras. 2.16 and 2.18); (c) improved financing of institutions
through the creation of PRFs (para. 2.20);  (d) adequate administrative and
management  arrangements  (para.  3.01);  and  (e)  adequate  provision  for
maintenance of physical facilities and equipment (para. 3.11).



- 21 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Cost of the Project
4.01        Summary of Proiect Costs.   Project costs  (Table  4.1)  are  estimated  at
TL 46.9 billion or US$71.1 million equivalent and include the refurbishment of
existing buildings; provision of furniture and equipment; financial assistance
for consumable materials through Production Revolving Funds; and technical
assistance.
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY PROJECT ITEM
(TURKISH LIRA  Million)      (USS million)                Z Total
------------------     --- --- -  I Foreign   Base
Local Foreign   Total    Local Foreign Total Exchange    Costs
sszz  zuu-   _ss-s  :=  ==s__- =-=                 --=ss=ss
A# TRAINING ISTITUTES
PUBLIC TRAINING CENTERS                  24076. 13t247.8 15s324.4    3.1   20.1  23.2           86        45
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING CENTERS          1,360.1  9s141.4 10,501.5   2.1    13.9  15.9          87       31
ADULT fECHNICAL TRAINING CENTERS           189.9  1,275.5  1,465.3    0.3     1.9   2.2         87         4
CU tERCE / TOURISN TRAININB CENTERS        123.5   830.3   953.9    0.2       1.3   1.4         87         3
lINEN TRAINING CENTERS                     134.1    91.0  1,035.0    0.2      1.4   1.6         87        3
SA-Total TRAININB INSTIES                   3884.0 25S396.0 29P280.0    5*9   38.5  44#4           87       87
DI NATIONAl  TRAINING SMM
INSTRCTIONL MTERIALS                       536h3    218.8   825.0    0.8      0.4   1.3         35        2
PRODCTION RE VINGBFUNDS 1F320.0                         -  14320.0   2.0        -   2.0          -        4
1LCHIC  ASSISTANCE                         205.2 24069.8 24275.0    0.3       3.1   3.4         91        7
SitTotal NATIONL TRANING SYtEM              2,061.5 29358.5  4w420.0    3.1      3.6   6.7         53        13
Totl  AELINE COSTS                            5t945.5 27t54.6 33700.1    9.0    42.1  51.1           82      100
Phsical CNtingwmies                          318.3   971.4  1 289.7    0*5    1.5   2.0           75        4
Price Cantingenies                         2,034,7  9P876.5 11911.2    3.1    15.0  18.0         83       35
Total PRO1CT COSTS                            8  9  5 38P602#5 46901.0   12.6   58.5  71.1           82      139
-                    -  -   -------- ----
Neiov r 11 1986  16:23
A summary of project costs by category of expenditure is given in
Table 4.2.



- 22 -
Table 4.2: PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(TUIRKSH LIRA Million)    IUSt Killion)       X total
-------------------   -----------------  Z  Foreign   Base
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total Exchange  Costs
INVESThENT COSTS
A. REFURRISHING                643*9  214.6  858.6  1.0   0.3  1.3       25      3
Bo EQUIPIlENT                3,240.0 25,191.4 28421.4  4.9  38.2 43.1    89      84
C. INSTRUTIONAL MTERIALS       536.3  288.8  825.0   0.8   0.4  1.3      35      2
D. C0NSI#ABLE ATERIALS       1W320#0     - 1,320.0  2.0      -  2,0       -      4
E. TECHNICAL ASSTStME
1. CMSULTANTS               137.2  777.5  914.8  0.2   1.2  1.4        85      3
2. FELLOUSNIPS               68U0 1,292.2 1,360.3  0.1   2.0  2.1      95      4
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE  205.2 2,069.8 2t275.0  0.3   3.1  3.4    91      7
Total BASELINE COSTS            5M945.5 27,754.6 33,700.1  9.0  42.1 51.1   82    100
msical Contingnies             318.3  971,4 1W289.7  0.5   1.5  2.0       75      4
Price Contingecies            2,034.7 9,876.5 11,911#2  3.1  15.0 18.0    83     35
Total PROJECT COSTS             8,29,*5 38,602.5 46,901.0  12.6  58.5 71.1  82    139
November 11 1986 16:23
4.02     Basis  of  Cost  Estimates.    The  costs  of  refurbishing  existing
facilities are based on mission estimates of the work involved to bring these
building facilities up to acceptable standards and average US$800 per
workshop.   Equipment  costs  have been estimated  on  the basis  of equipment
lists and specifications. Technical assistance costs have been estimated on
the basis of recent prices for comparable technical assistance in the
Industrial  Schools  Project  (Loan  2536-TU).   Base  cost  estimates  reflect
prices as of negotiations (November 1986).
4.03     Customs Duties and Taxes.  Equipment and goods imported directly for
use by Government  ministries  are exempt  from duties  and  taxes.   The  tax
element of civil works is estimated at US$0.2 million.
4.04     Cost per Training Place.  Equipment costs per training place, in all
NFVT institutions assisted are estimated at an average of US$1,300, which is
comparable with those of other Bank-wide financed facilities for NFVT of this
type (Annex I1). Use factors for NFVT workshops would be about 80%, which is
acceptable.
4.05     Contingency  Allowances.    Project   costs   include  a  contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical additions (US$2.0 million), equal to 102 of
the estimated cost of all project items in the first phase.  Base cost for
the   second  and   third   phase   include   physical   contingencies.    Price
contingencies between negotiations (November 1986) and the end of project



- 23 -
implementation are estimated at US$18.0 million equivalent, or 33.9% of base
cost plus physical contingencies. Total contingencies represent 39.1% of the
base cost. Annual international rates of price increases have been applied
to both local and foreign costs and for all categories in US$ terms at the
following annual rates: 6.8% in 1987 and in 1988, 7% in 1989, 7.1% in 1990,
and 4%, thereafter. By expressing both foreign and local price contingencies
in US$ equivalencies, it has been assumed that the present policy of
adjusting   the  Turkish  Lira  exchange  rate  to  reflect  the  inflation
differential between Turkey and its major trading partners will continue.
The lira has been devalued in accordance with this pattern since 1980 and is
now adjusted daily on a crawling-peg system.
4.06     Foreign  Exchange Component.   The  foreign exchange  component  was
estimated  as  follows:    (a)  refurbishing--25%;  (b)  equipment--88%;  (c)
textbooks and instructional materials--35%; (d) specialist services--85%; and
(d)  fellowships--95%.   These  percentages  have  been  determined  by:   (a)
calculating  the  indirect  foreign  exchange  content  of  minor  works;  (b)
assuming that all equipment would be imported; and (c) assuming that all
project financed specialists would be foreign.  Including contingencies, the
resulting foreign exchange component is estimated at US$58.5 million, or
about 82% of total costs.
4.07     Recurrent Costs.  Recurrent costs are very low in NFVT and estimates
range from TL 2,700 to TL 3,500 (or US$4 to US$6) per month per student
depending upon trades  (Annex 11).  Under the proposed project, additional
recurrent costs would be generated essentially by the recruitment of new
instructors. Most project buildings are already in use and well-maintained,
only modest additional recurrent costs would be generated by building
maintenance.  Estimated total additional recurrent expenditures generated by
the proposed expansion would be approximately TL 0.9 billion by 1994. This
represents approximately 6% of the MOE recurrent budget spent on NFVT in 1985
and 0.2% of the entire MOE budget in that year.
4.08     Revenues.  It is anticipated that the proposed expansion, which is
in line with the 1985-89 Development Plan targets, will  in  fact  have  a
minimum impact on the MOE recurrent budget.  Production work facilitated by
PRFs which will be established for 200 institutions supported by the project,
will to a large extent generate income which will partly offset the
additional recurrent costs generated by the proposed expansion.  Conservative
estimates by the mission (where the amount of money revolving each year is
only 5 times the amount of the capital (US$10,000 equivalent in TL) and the
profits estimated at 10% of total sales only) show that profits generated in
each center would be equivalent to the salary of 5 new instructors per year.
The total amount of profits generated by all PRFs of the NFVT institutions
assisted  through the project  (approximately 200) are estimated at TL 0.7
billion and would therefore cover at least 75% of estimated additional
recurrent costs generated by the proposed expansion.
Project Financing
4.09     The proposed Bank loan of US$58.5 million would finance 100% of the
foreign exchange component of the project. The Government would finance the
balance of project costs (US$12.6 million).   Project financing would be in
accordance with Table 4.3.



- 24 -
Table 4.3: FINANCIAL PLAN
Estimated
Share of
------US$ Million---              Bank
Category of Expenditure                Government   Bank   Total    Financing (2)
Refurbishing                              1.8        0.0      1.8          0.0
Equipment                                 7.6       50.8    58.4         86.9
Instructional and Materials               0.2        1.5      1.7        88.2
Technical assistance:
Consultants                           0.0        1.7      1.7       100.0
Fellowships                           0.0        2.6      2.6       100.0
Consumable Materials                      2.7        0.0      2.7         0.0
Unallocated                               0.3         1.9     2.2        86.4
Total                                    12.6       58.5    71.1         82.3
Procurement
4.10     Contracts for equipment would be grouped as much as possible to form
bidding  packages  attractive  to  suppliers.   These  packages,  suitable  for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), would be procured in accordance with
the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement ur4er IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (May
1985) and would account for about 85S of the total value of equipment. Table
4.4 shows the procurement arrangements for the proposed project.
Table 4.4:  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(Total Costs of Proposed Project Components Including Contingencies)
(US $ Millions)
Procurement Method
Category of Expenditure               ICB        LCB         Other      Total Cost
Refurbishing                          0.0        0.0          1.8           1.8
Equipment                            54.3        5.0          1.1         60.4
(47.2)      (4.4)        (1.0)       (52.6)
Instructional Materials              0.0         0.0          1.7           1.7
( - )      ( - )        (1.5)        (1.5)
Technical Assistance                  0.0        0.0          4.4           4.4
( - )      ( - )        (4.4)         (4.4)
Consumable Materials                  0.0        0.0          2.8           2.8
TOTAL                      54.3         5.0        11.8          71.1
Bank Financing            (47.2)       (4.4)       (6.9)        (58.5)
* Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank Loan.



- 25 -
4.11     The exceptions to ICB procurement would be as follows:
(a) Refurbishment of existing centers (mainly PTCs) and installation of
equipment, estimated to cost a total of US$1.8 million equivalent
would be carried out by DIEBS, under force account.
(b) Contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than US$150,000
equivalent each, which in the aggregate would not exceed US$5.0
million and which would not be expected to interest foreign suppliers
because of the variety of items in each contract, would be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, using local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures.
(c) Sundry items not exceeding US$50,000 in each contract to an
aggregate amount of US$1.1 million equivalent would be purchased
locally on the basis of three quotations in accordance with local
procurement procedures.
(d) Acquisition of technical books and modules of instructional materials
estimated to cost US$1.7 million (including copyright and royalty
payments) would be done through negotiations with publishers.
Government-financed translation and printing would be carried out by
the Ministry's own facilities.
(e)  Gcvernment-financed  cqnsumable materials  for  the  PRFs,  and to an
aggregate amount of US$2.8 million, would be purchased locally on the
basis of three quotations in accordance with local procurement
procedures.
4.12     Local competitive bidding procedures are generally consistent with
the need for economy and efficiency in the execution of the project. There
are, however, a few procedures which are inconsistent with Bank procurement
guidelines. These procedures and proposals to improve them are detailed in
Annex 16. During negotiations, agreement was reached regarding the changes
needed to make LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank (para. 6.02).  In the
comparison of bids for equipment to be procured through ICB, domestic
manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15X, or the existing
customs duty, whichever is lower over the CIF prices of competing imports.
Under ICB procedures, invitations to bid and the proposed award of contracts
would be reviewed by the Bank prior to final award decisions. It is estimated
that this review would cover about 85% of the value of all equipment contracts
(US$51.3 million equivalent). The remaining 15% of equipment contracts would
be subject to selective post award review.
Technical Assistance (TA)
4.13     Technical assistance would be procured from a single source as a
comprehensive package in order to ensure an integrated approach to training
systems development. To keep the evaluation process manageable, not more than
six qualified TA firms would be requested to submit proposals.  The TA firms
would be selected in accordance with principles and procedures acceptable to
the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency."



- 26 -
Disbursements
4.14     The proposed project disbursements would be over a period of about
eight years. Disbursements will be taking place an average of about 6 months
after incurring expenditures. A disbursement schedule and profile, reflecting
this and making a comparison with a regional profile, are shown in Schedule
III. Disbursements would be made against:
(a) 100X of the foreign expenditures on directly imported equipment,
textbooks and training modules, educational materials, and copyright
and royalty payments;
(b) 100% of the ex-factory expenditures on locally manufactured equipment
and educational materials;
(c) 652 of expenditures on locally procured items of equipment;
(d) 100% of expenditures of consultant services and fellowships; and
4.15      Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31,  1995.
Disbursements against contracts for goods and services exceeding US$200,090
equivalent would be made against normal documentation.  Disbursements against
contracts below that level would be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) available for examination by Bank missions.
§peqial Account
4.16     To facilitate timely project  implementation,  the  Government  would
establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, a special account in the Central Bank of Turkey.  The authorized
ceiling of allocations to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in
the Special Account would be equivalent to US$3,000,000.   This  allocation
represents about four months' projected disbursements during the peak year of
disbursement.   The  Special  Account  would  be  replenished  against' monthly
withdrawal applications as appropriate when the undisbursed balance of the
account  f&11s  below  US$1.5  million.   Withdrawal  applications  would  be
supported by appropriate documentation.
4.17     The  PIU  would  maintain  in accordance  with acceptable  accounting
practice separate accounts for the project and would prepare at the end of
each quarter a detailed statement reflecting project expenditures during the
period. Within 45 days after the end of each quarter, the PIU would submit
copies of  these statements  to the Bank to facilitate supervision.   Project
accounts including the Special Account (para. 4.16) would be audited in
accordance with the March 1982 Bank Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank.  The Bank would be provided,
within six months of the end of each fiscal year, with an audit report of such
scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including a seDarate
opinion  by  the  auditor  on  disbursements  against  certified  SOEs.   The
Government provided assurances to this effect during negotiations (para. 6.02).



- 27 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.01     The  proposed  project  would  make  a  valuable  contribution  toward
meeting critical  skill  manpower  shortages which  constrain  growth  in  key
economic sectors such as manufacturing industries.
5.02     The proposed project would significantly improve the quality of basic
skill training programs, increase the number of skilled workers, and enhance
employment   and   income   generating   opportunities   for   low  income  and
disadvantaged groups, including out-of-school youth and unemployed adults.
5.03     The major quantifiable benefit of the proposed project when fully
operational would be an annual output of 60,000 additional semi-skilled
workers with industrial and service skills.
5.04     The proposed project would,  through the provision of relevant TA,
strengthen vital services and programs in the areas of instructor training,
needs   assessment,   program   design,   skill   testing   and   certification,
entrepreneurship courses and evaluation.   The income generated through PRFs
will reduce the cost of financing INFVr for the Government.
Risks
5.05     The MOE has successfully identified, prepared and appraised the first
phase of the project; therefore, the risk that the the second and third phase
sub-projects may not be well prepared according to labor market and community
needs is considered minimal.



- 28 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     During loan negotiations, the terms of refere,nce for specialists and
the fellowship training plan were confirmed.
6.02     During loan negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) no later than June 30, 1990, an evaluation study including a
follow-up of employment experience of NFVT graduates would be
completed (para. 2.12);
(b) PRFs would be opened and maintained with adequate financing in about
200 institutions assisted in the project (para. 2.20);
(c) the criteria used in selecting sub-projects for the first phase
(Annex 8) will be used in the next two phases (para. 3.05);
(d) the existing PIU will be strengthened and maintained with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.09);
(e) changes will be made to make LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank
(para. 4.12);
(f) project accounts, including the Special Account, would be audited
annually by an Auditor acceptable to the Bank and audited accounts
would be submitted to the Bank within 6 months after the end of each
fiscal year of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably
request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements
against certified SOEs (para. 4.17); and
(g) the MOE will assign a procurement specialist, provided under
technical assistance, to the PIU no later than October 1987 (para.
3.09).
6.03     Subject  to  the above conditions, the project provides a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$58.5 million to the Republic of Turkey.



Page I of 2
Jose 12. 1986
CENTRAL
EEPUDUU      SWZNCATION                            COOWLETION             RSO)ENBN
on EIN)CATION  NEcOSSNT          DUL               RATE rot               UNI? COST  PROQEESSION
a"  PER               AS PECENT        nXPNIUTWUES  LITERAG  PRINANT PlARY             PRDIIART  P311(8*      RATE PORO    SECONDARY SECONDARY 81X811
BAS   POP.  CAPITA  PERCEN  GNP TOTAL. CENRA  ALLOCATED TO:I RATS              EROLL. BOWOL          STUDEN  TS EUCTION  PRIMAR  TO  ENRLL.   STUDENTS  ENRLL.
TEAR MILLS. (US$3   DEVOTED T0  COVEMINEN           P11  sic  Hi    (3)    RATIO   CYCLE             PER       As PERCENT SECONDARY   RATIO   PER               RtATIO
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXEPNDITURE              (2)         (1976)   (3)          (3)      TEACUER  GNPICAPITA        (3)         (2)      TEACNER       (1)
(1)      (2)  1     (3)            (4)            (5)           (6)        7)       ()          (9)        (10)          (I I)        (12)       (13)     (14)
AWSRALA             80     14.6b  870          6.38        14.6         --    --                     103'      100          21        -              9            1         1         09
CAIIADA     61     23.~~~76  9506    7.78           18.5'7      308? 34'? 23'?   9gb         106'      100          21        19.9'?        100          92'        18       22.60'
GERMANY ?.R.        79    61.2  12,200         4.6          9.9'           -       --      99         898      100'                                 10--0IGo     948        -        12.108
NENRMILANDS         79    14.0  10,490         7.9          5.1         20   35   25S      996?       96        95          ISa       15.3           99          82         1 3      12.40
NEU ZEALAND         80      3.26  6,081b    5.5W           13.4         3 7   31I  28      g,b       100       100          24        11.6          100          82         1 5      25.80"
SWEEN               79      8.3  12,250        9.0         18.2         31   10   10       9gb        99K      100          18'       19.9          100          79'        10'?y    36.50'?
EASTERN AFRICA
BOTSWAA             83      i.0b    92ob    6.0            22.0         41   34   22       443       100        77          32        10.0           40          20        21         1.80
WRNUNDI             at      4.2      235       2.86bw      19.0         43   28   27       25         291       35         37         20.2           12           3'        17        1.00
COMOROS             84      0.4b    345        3.6"        28.0         49   29   22       49         76        40          39                       45          36         28        0.60
OJiBOUTi            84      0.4      480       3.0         11.9         73   26   ...    10          42         66         40         67.0           40          10         19        0.60
ElNIOPIA            81     32.8b      14ob    2,9P'        11.1         45   25   20       53         42        30'        63         19.3           938         14        44         0.45
KOITA               82     17.4b    4206    5.8            2O.Ib        65   16   11       48b       113        58         36         14.4           35          18        26         -
LESOTRIO            82       1.46    4356    5.5           16.9         38   32   26       53b       116'       41         481         9.6           46          21        21         1.30
MADAGASCAR          77      8.5       330      4.0"        24.0         53   28   19       50        946:       33         5s          8.0           38          14         23        3.10by
KI6AVI.A            81      6.16    2306    3.5            11.4         38   14   25       256        62        23         65          5.8           12           4        21         0.40
II4URITII'3         83       1.06  1,170b    4.3           14.0         46   36    7       806        93        72         23         13.0          100          50         22        1.00
RWlANDA             83      5,9b    2706       3.6         27.4         71   16   13       376       65         30         40         16.0            9           5         16        0.40
SEIYCEELLES         79      0.6   1,770        5.9         22.4'        348  33'  10'                 -         -          25         --             --     --              --       -
SOMALIA             NI      4.5      280       1.5         10.1         506  446   66    506         226        80b        296         9,0b          Sob         126       22         1.00
SUDAN               80     19.26    3806    3.0            -            66   39   ...    32           SIs"      68         34          1.4          44           16         16       ..
SWIAZIL.AND         83      0.76    9406       3.8Pb       20.4         51   34   15       656       93         50         33         11.0          98           29         18        3.00)
TANZANIIA           80     18.5      260       5.9         17.7         47   10   16       79b       986        87         43         11.0           196          3         20'       0.30
UGANDA              80     12.66     3006    -             16.1"        236  376  206    48           54'       61         34         -              17           3        23         0.60
ZAtItE              8I    29.86    2106        7.7         28.4         -    -    10       546       76         23         30         21.0          40           18        28         2.00
ZAMBIA              80      5.7b    5666    4.5P'          11.1         48   23   22       446        95        s0         48         12.9           19          16        22         1.50
ZINRMEAI            8l      7.7b    7006       5.1         19.5         62   32    6       446       90         55         39         20.0          85           is        23         0.50
WESTERN AFRICA
SREINT              79      3.4b    3206    6.5'           35.0         43   21    5    116          42         30         46         14.0          30           11        43         1.007
BUfREINA            83      6.5      2106    2.1"          21.7         43   29   28       9          16        25         57         24.3           16           3        24         0.03
CAM4EROON           76      8.2      590       2.97        16.07        33'  438  208   -            747        45'        307        11.8'         20'          147       26         1.307
C.A.R.              79      2.2      280       3.887       20.68Y          -        -                 -          -         658Y                                             --        0.ioay
CRAD                76      4.4      120      2.4bSf7      21.76           -       -      is         257        -          77         -                           3'?      21         0.207
CONGaO              78      1.5      670      9.0"'?y      27.7'7       -- -                                    -          5667                     30                     4367       4.008Y
CANON               77      0.6   3.420        3.76Y        8.47        -     -. -        -                     -          4667              -             -               19by       2.8087
CAMBIA              77      0.6       220      3.3"'        6.56        46   25'   68t  job          4067       90'        2767       44.7'          40          12617y    17
CIIANA              76    11.3       400      4.07         15.56        .                 -           71b17                2767       -             -            36617    21          -
GUINEA              79      5.3      2901'    4.6'P        -            250  26'  288   20            34        36          38        20.0'P        85           16        29         7.00'
IVORY COAST         53      9.3b    720       7.3          42.8        51   40    9    3587          72         79         37        29.0           49           22"z      30         1.88
LIBERIA             s0      1.9      520      4.6          19.6         43   23   24    30            52        32         35         20.0          76           22        20         2.90
KALI                81      7.06      190     4.2'         21.7'        38   21   it    10           20         60         44         15.7          66            1         11        0.90'?
MAURITANIA          78      1.66    3206    5.5            16.9         33   43   25      176         32        60         44         52.0          30            9        25         0.37
NICELR              84      5.2      300      2.8          21.0         40   25   20    14           25         20         36        41.0           37            6        28        0.50
NIGERIA             83    93.66      7606    7.47          16.0         -    -    13    36           93         70         36         19.5          47           23        30         2.00
SENEAL              77      5.5      450       5.0         23.0         46   34   20    10           34617    -            4367      --             20)          10        21         2.20by
SIERRtA LEONEI      77      3.4      250      6.06         16.06              - -         156        37%        -          35         25.06         84           15'       22        0.6067
TOCO                78      2.4      400      6.59"        26.591       30'  28'  21'   18            74        40         5467       38.0           52          32617    486b        1.60by
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEA
ARGENTIN            I8    27.3 221            2.7          10.9         43'  31'  18'   936           9         52         1          -             87           318                23.00
BAHAMAS             79      0.2   2,770       5.7          19.1         36   36   11    936          99         97         24        -              97           75        19       -
BARBADOS            78      0.2   2,680       8.5"wY       22.1'        43'  31'  16'   996         1007        99a        277        19.9'         gg'          187       207      ---
BOLIVIA             80      5.4      550      4.1s7        30.5'        -    -    --    63           74Y7                  20Y       -              -            157       --       12.607
BRAZIL              79   U16.5    1,770       3.8           6.2         51   -.   14    76           7387       -          2387        4.5b         61'          1587      14'?    12.62b
CHILE               76    10.9   1,890        3.26Y        13.06          -        --   -           jj96:7    -            3467       --              -            6ly    2067      11.qnby
COLOMBIA            80    26.76   1.1806    3.3            25.0         35   20   20    81b          78         36         32          6.6          .--          47        20       lo.02&Y
COSTA RICA          80      2.26  1,s10b    8.4            31.1         40   27   33    90           93         77         33          5.5          77           40        27        14.00
CUBA                78      9.8       -       8.0          11.0         --  -    -        96        1126b7    96           1867      -              98           716xy    is         19.A2by
DMINICAN REP.    s0         5.3   1,030       2.9          13.0         39   21   22    686          80         31         59          3.2          94           30        33        16.00
gEOJADOR            80      8.4b  1,110       6.Av         36.7         45   31   16    81          105                    36         12.6          86           47        16       29.00
EL SAVADOR          77      4.4      640       3.4b7       23.1by       64    8   27    62           82617      32         39        -              41           26617     2767      7.90b7
GUATEMALA           78      6.8   1,010        1.7'?       12.66        --  -    -        -          69617      -          3567                     69           15617    1967        5.507
GUTYANtA            76      0.8      630       8.1b7       13.86y7                  -     --         99b617                3267      -              --           59617                3.00by
HtAITI              80      S.o      230       3.4"         7,98Y       65    9    6    236          s0         20         41         19.0          62'           4'       2         0.80
NonDURAS            78      3.6       520      3.b         14,367       62'  15'  19'   60           $9617      308        4167       12.8'         68'          21'7      19        8.007
JAMAICA             80      2.1   1,110       6,5          13.7         37   43   20    90           98        98          40          2.3          95           RI        22        8.0
mEXIOo              80    65.5   180          4.7          17.0'        46   39   15    c,2          98         53         44          9.5          86           56        17        10).30
NICARAGUA           78      2.66    6106Oo     3.06,,      14.06         -   -    --    906          8561       24         376         -            -            2661      306       -
PANAMA              78      1.86  1,5506    5,¶5u3Y        21.8by       42'  [l'  13    826          9567                  2567       11.6          85'          5067      2767    20.4067
PARAGUAY            79      3.0   1,140        1.4"        14.2         42   17   20    14           83         32         28          3.jr         76           22        12        0.70
PERU                80     16.6   1,000        3.6         14.3         53   1S   19    10           83         56         39         9.8           89           39        22       14.407
TRINIDAD & TON.   77         1.1   3,910       4,867        8.867       48   32   20    95           98         91         30         10.5?         49           62        24 
URUGUAY             78      2.9   2,500        2.5          9,4b        --   --  -        94         10561      -          246         -     --                  646:      --        17.80'7
VENEZUELA           78    14.4   3,440         5.17        18.96        -        -     -  82         1066:t     -          i8         -             -            3961      17       21.107



Pagt 2 of 2
UPSDOIIUR   tWCATION                           COWiTION             RWNMNa T
oN UDUCATIcO   5c801   r     ADWLT             RAST  or              ouRt? COSt PQSSION
GNP m                AS 13t         EXPENDITURES  LITERAa  P111    PR7xIMA      PR        PRIX71      UTE PRLM    Cs008MA*r  SeOONDAAT PICH8R
SE  POP. CAPITA  PRET GI OL  CS?RL ALLOCATED TOt tBTZ                    tNROLL. Ssca        STUODERS EDUCAtIZON  PRI   TO  32.OLL.  STUDENTS  ENROLL.
TIRM HILLS. (VS$)   DSVOSS70 SD OVSWIR          Pal  8c  ft    (2)    RATIO  CeCyL           PER      Ab PERCT S31N*1    RATIO           PER        RATIO
(1979) (1979)   DZ (ATION  UIPW2Ie              (1)        (1976)   (2)       (t)      tSAR   CO/CAPITA          (2)       (t)    72CIt8R        (t)
(1)     (2)        (3)          (4)           (5)          (6)      (7)       (a)        (9)       (10)         (11)       (12)       (13)    (14)
EAST ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
CHIINA             83 1 025.0b f3b    3.1               7.1       3S   40   22      77b       77       62         25         8.0         65          35        17       4.80
INDONESIA         81   150 5b    520       2.1         9.3        70   24    6      32b       98       61         37        11.0         74          27       26        3.70
KOReA              82    39.3b  1 636b    7.7t         20.8       34   34   31      96        99       98         43        19.0         98          84       38       21.80
MALAYSIA           84    15.2b  1,e70b    6.1          16.7       39'  43' law    70b         971      97         26        jj.5w        89          72       22        4.00
PAPBA N.C.         83     3.08    820      5.4         19.0       40   17   22      -         60       738        318       15.0         35          13x1     27?       1.00
PHILIPPINES        79    4,.3b    690b    2.8V         14.0       64   36   -       75b       84       65         31         7.1         89          55       36       21.00
SINGAPORE          8o     2.4   4,420      2.7         6.7        39   40   16      83        92       82         31        8.8          96          55       22        8.00
SOLOMON IsL.      82      0.2b    640      6.6P'       19.0b      41   34   20      i5        78       80         27        10.5         40          20       18        2.50
THAILAND           82    49.0b    80b    3.4           20.3       59   14   10      86b      101       68         21         9.3'        44          46        I8       4.00
SOttTH ASIA
RANILADESH        79    92.3b      90      1.1       lo.ly      51   17   20      22b       631      --         53         5.6         -           14       23        1.43
BWLTAN            80      1.2      8o      3.6         11.0       -----             10        12       -          -        -             -           --
INDIA             77   659.6      210      2.9Y        9.9w7      -    -    -       36        791      -          41       -             -           28X      ---       8.309J
NEPAL             82    15.0b    1506    1.4         -            -   -   -         19        70       -          38       -             -           21       23        3.704
PAKISTAN          82    87.1b    380b    2.0            7.0       38   20   24      22        50       41         30         5.9         56          21       is        3.00
EUROPE, MIDDLE eKS  AND NORO-  AQICA
AFCHANISTA8        77    15.5     -        1.7          3.7       47   19   IS      12        3b1     69         376       -            62           8       22by      t.007
ALGERIA            79    18.3   1,770      3.8t        12.3       348  26'  214    35         83y      45'        37         7.01        55s         297      26        3.70Y
EGYPT             82    43.3'    650'    4.6W           7.9       31'  358  26      44        75X      80g        34'       9.8'         63'         435      19a      17.00
GREECE             76     9.3   4.140      2.6w        lo.6b      37   2b   21      -         97b7     -          29b        6.21        -           79b.    27by    17.80by
IRAN              79    36.9      -        5.74?       14.107     -     -     -     50       l01       -          32'      -             -           448X     24'       4.90'?
IRAQ              79    12.6   2,710       4.3'?       6.9'?      -    -    -       -          0OOY    -          28       -             -          45'y    2Ts         9.308Y
IRELAND           81      3.4b  4 480      6.3'q       11.8'y     -     -     -     9         93       94         29       -             98          81       14       1l.(o
JORDAN             81     2.2b  1,420b    4.9'         10.2       19   44   18      70b       57       85         32        15.1         -           57       38        8.90
LENAVOR            79   2.3   -            -           18.6"Y  - -_-    -                     96X    -            19    -                -           462    --1   27.Bogy
MOROCCO            84    21.8b    670b    6.0W         22.9       38   43   19      35        57*       9         31        15.1         -           14'       38       8 gof
OMAN               82     o.9b  5.s20b    2.5<"        12.78      -     -     -     30b?      71x      65         25       -             86          11       14       ..
PORTnCAL           79     9.8b  2.060      3.6         22.2       so   28  1       78        97       20         19'       12.R         88a         45X      17'       8.301
-.OI1A            78    22.1   2.100       3.9bY        6.2?      -     -     -     98       106bx     -          23b      -             98          84bx     22b      10.60bv
SPAIN             76    37.0   4,920       2.1y        16.8Y      -    -    -       -         98by     -          29b       -             _           76by    -        24.10by
SYRIA              78     8.6   1,170      4.40        10.3       39   25   26      s8        $7by     80         35b      -             68          41by     21b      12.60
TtHlISIA          79      6.4   1,130      7.0        19.0       42   39   18      62b      1o0       8o         39b       12.8         30          30X      30        6.00
TURKEY            83      47.5  1.230      3.3         16.2       50   22   24      73b      110       77         31        6.0          55          26       it        8.00
YEMEN A.R.        80      6.8     420      S.o0w       12.0       94    7    7      21b       37        12'       38?      67.0          85           3       20        1.10
YEMEN P.D.R.      82      2.Ob    420b    7.6           9.7       63' 14'  8'    53           61       34         25       22.0'         46          17       20        2.50
SUMMARY FOR DEVEOPIW COUNWstrIS
.Mber of Countries:                      84              93      70   69   67      8l        92       68         95       65            7s          91       88       85
Range:                                   (1.4-          (3.7-  (23-  (8-  (5-    (8-       (12-     (12-        (17-     (1.4-         (10-        tI-      (8-      (0.03-
10.0)         54.3)  94)   46)  33)    99)       119)      99)        77)       67.0)         100)       84)       48)     29.0)
Quartiles: tpper:                         5.6           21.7     51   36   22      81        98       80         43        20           87          47       26       11.0
MedIan:                       4.0           16.:     41   28   19       53       83        61        35        13           65          26        22       3.7
Lover:                        3.0           11.0      38   21  13       25       60        35        28         9           40          14        19       1.0
Quartile Deviation:                       1.3            5.4    6.5  7.5  4.5   28.0       19.0     22.5        7.0      5.6          23.5        16.5      3.5        5.0
Mean:                                     4.4           17.0     46   28   18      53        76       59         36        16           62          31       23        6.9
Standard Deviatton:                       1.9            8.7     L2   10    7      29        27       24         11        13           27          23        7        7.4
Median:                                   4.0           16.0     43   28   19      53        83       61         35        13           65          26       22        3.7
. . . .. . . .. _ . ... ~~~~~~~~~-A__._- ...___-----___- _
SYMBOL$:                                                              FOUTROTSS:
-^  DATUM UNAVAILABlE                                                    A * DATUM PRIOR TO RAEg Y1AR               S - MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (NOE) ONLY
MAKNITUDE HnL OR INELICILE                                         8 - DATUM tO Rl RECENT TRAM MAE TEA         T    NOE AND STATE GOVERNMENT ONLY
I    DATUM QUESTONBLE                                                   N . CURRENT PRICES                          k - PUBLIC EIPENDITURE ONLY
INCLVDS PART-TIE STUDETSf g                                          * NET      LLMENt RATIO                   X - INCLUDES OVER-AGE STUDENTS
P - GROSS ENROLLME   RATIO                 Y - UNESCO SOURCeS
P G QDP
SOURCES:        Columns I and 2g  World Btank Atl7 or Edueation sector fi led eeions.
Colum   3 to 14:  World Bank Education metor aidions, Goverment soures sad/or the Unesco Statistical Yearbook.
Co40aratfy  Education Data are mStful In the evlmation of varioues  ducation eystes  nd *n lywis of relative stagq, of aducational development between vatious
countries.  8kwever, on the baest  of the preeet data, eros-natioeal ecoprison should be approached with great caution. Date pre  nted in the above table have
been collected largely by Bank  lsolon, from goverant eoureas; the reminder are staff estisates or data from Uneeco. Efforts bhew  been made to stendardise
definition, and, within liatts, to eheck the sccura        of the data.  Nevertheless, such data are still imperfect in several respets sad the Bank ic working to
improve them progressively on the occsion of its operational work.  In the wee of tbhe  dote, the foll-wing quelifietion  shmuld be kept in miad:
(1)   'Educatlon' as defined in the table Inclades all education  and training, both foral ead non-formel.
(2)   'Prisary' deueation refers to education at tie first level nd *secondary' education refor. to all education At the secondery level retardless of type
(e.g. generel, technical, agricultural).
(3)   'Literacy rates' (col. 6) ar  often obtained from country census".  In many countries tbey "a  only appromtioat   and It to doubtful thit any uniform
definition of 'literate' bas bten followed eoniteatly.
(4)   'Public aipenditure in edmcatio ' (cola. 4  nd 5) refere to *11 captal end reurrent expenditures devoted to education by public and quasi-publitc
agencias.
(5)   'Inrollmnt ratios' (cole. 7, 12 and 14) rotfr to school Fear snd are the percentag  of eligible children te-.pled full-ttm  in the appropriate school,
public and ptivate by levl.  They are oftten aubject to a wide _rgin of error tn the developing countries owinX to vartations In the accuracy of basie
data (i.e.,  g-spectifie population and enroll_ent.). Irollmnt figurem  frequently are higher then the n_er of students actually in school.
Over-a*d studente may be included in tbe  figure   nd cma inflate the traot.



- 31 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT (NFVT)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Manpower Context - Summary Data
Two Bank documents provide the manpower context for the proposed Non
Formal Vocational Training Project: the Industrial and Vocational Training
Survey (Document No. 4496-TU, dated July 27, 1983) and the Industrial Schools
Project Staff Appraisal Report (Document No. 5482-TU, dated April 18, 1985).
Table 1 suimarizes the data concerning the projected additional labor
demand over the period 1985--95 in relevant occupational categories, as it
appears in the Industrial and Vocational Training Survey.
Table 1: ADDITIONAL LABOR DEMAND BY OCCUPATIONAL CATEGORY
FOR ALL SECTORS OF THE ECONOMY
Occupational      Labor Demand Due        Labor Demand Due       Total Additional
Category         to Economic Growth         to Attrition           Labor Demand
1985-95                   1985-95                1985-95
C2 1                 881,100                   238,600               1,119,700
D2 -'                 723,200                  604,700               1,327,900
E  3'                650,200                3,147,800               3,798,000
1/ C2 corresponds to skilled manual occupations requiring secondary school
completion and job-related training.
2/  D2 corresponds to skilled manual occupations requiring
primary/intermediate intermediate school completion plus pre-vocational
instruction.
3/ E corresponds to semi-skilled occupations requiring functional lit3racy
plus job training.
The Industrial and Vocational Training Survey shows that severe shortages
of skilled and semi-skilled manual workers will persist over the next decade.
In the category of skilled manual workers for instance, only 602 of the
additiLnal demand, estimated at 2,447,000 (category C2 and D2) will be met by
the supply of the MOE's vocational and technical schools (estimated at
1,430,000 for the period).
The additional output from the institutions assisted in the proposed NFVT
project falls into two categories. On the one hand the graduates from the



- 32 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
Apprenticeship Training Centers, estimated at 3,700 annually (Annex 6),
belongs to the category of skilled industrial manpower (level C2) and
constitute one of the main source of supply together with the graduates of the
Industrial Schools for the Industrial Sector. On the other hand, the
graduates from the Public Training Centers and other NFVT institutions,
estimated at 56,000 (Annex 6), belongs to the category of semi-skilled
manpower (E).
Projections of manpower demand and supply completed for the preparation of
the Industrial Schools Project provide some insight into the question of
skilled industrial manpower shortages as shown in Table 2.
Table 2: ESTIMATED DEMAND AND SUPPLY FOR SKILLED INDUSTRIAL MANPOWER 1985-95
Skilled Industrial       1985-1995 Supply/Demand      1990/91 Supply Demand
Manpower                                 %                          X
Manpower Demand             734,900                        73,490
Manpower Supply             632,000         86.0           64,800      88.2
The supply from the industrial schools will meet approximately 86% of the
estimated labor demand in the industry sector over the period 1985-95. The
combined output from the industrial schools and the apprenticeship system,
assisted through the proposed NFVT project would still fall short of the
projected demand for skilled and semi-skilled manpower.
Finally in light of the estimated 380,000 additional semi-skilled workers
required annually in all sectors of the economy over the period 1985-95 (Table
1), the 56,000 estimated additional output from the NFVT institutions assisted
in the proposed project provide an important source of supply for this type of
manpower.
3S24V/48-49



- 33 -
Annex 3
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Distribution of Urban Unemployment by level of education in 1984
Schooling level achieved          Sex        Unemployed       Dist:ibution
Illiterate                   Male          4y,016              8.6
Female       21,453               7.0
Total        68,469               8.0
Primary School               Male         262,169             47.9
Female       98,659              32.1
Total       360,828              42.2
Middle School                Male          63,001              li.5
Female       35,455              116
Total        98,456              11.5
Vocational High School       Male          45,343               8.3
Female       35,589              11.6
Total        80,932               9.5
General High School          Male          68,024              12.4
Female       86,163              28.1
Total       154,187              18.0
Higher Education             Male          22,892               4.2
Female       12,096               3.9
Total        34,988               4.1
Other                        Male          39,302               7.2
Femiale      17,484               5.7
To,tal       56,786               6.6
Total                        Male         547,747             100.0
Female      306,899             100.0
Total       854,646             100.0
Source: 1984 Urban Household Survey
State Institute of Statistics.
3524V pg. 2



- 34 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Non-Formal Education and Training in Turkey
Background
1.       Historically, non-formal education (NFE) in Turkey started with the
alphabet reform in 1928 which aimed at eradicating illiteracy. Its present
format originated in 1960 with the formation of the General Directorate of
Popular Education, which was part of the Ministry of National Education and
charged with the organisation of literacy improvement, basic education,
cultural activities and community development.
2.       Re-organisations have been frequent, but following the restructuring
of the Ministry in December, 1984, as the Ministry of National Educatior.,
Youth and Sports (MOE), apprenticeship training and adult education were
merged under a new General Directorate of Apprenticeship and Non-Formal
Education (GDANE).
Main Providers
3.       Although a number of entities exist to provide NFE in various forms,
the major part is carried out by the GDANE and its role is to be the
validating agency for all NFE courses. Extended courses (4 - 8 months) in
employment related subjects were provided to 900,000 people in 1985.
Approximately 851 of these people were enrolled in MOE institutions, the rest
in the Ministries of Industry and Commerce, Defense, Agriculture, Culture and
Tourism.
Type of programs and range of subjects
4.       Non Formal Education and Training in Turkey is basically of three
types - (1) Communication skills such as literacy, (2) Life skills imparted by
social/cultural courses and activities, useful to improve the quality of life
and ameliorate the condition of unemployment, and (3) Production skills, given
by technical, vocational, craft and management courses, intended to stimulate
economic activity.
5.       In the third category, the emphasis is on stimulating local economic
development by imparting the skills necessary to:
-    increase family income (weaving, carpet making, garment)
-    improve employment prospects (basic industrial occupations)
-    improve production methods (irrigation)
-    improve decision making and management (marketing, accounting)
-    stimulate creation of small businesses (business start-up courses)



- 35 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
These categories are not exclusive of each other and the subjects
offered may well be suited to different purposes. The total coverage consists
of 240 subjects with each center offering an average of 20 subjects. Some 65
subjects are available in social-cultural and literacy areas, including
several to upgrade education levels. In the category of training for local
economic development, 175 subjects are offered with 135 being offered by the
MOE and 40 by the Ministry of Agriculture. The section below describes Non
Formal Vocational Training (NFVT) within the MOE only.
National and Regional Organization of NFVT within the MOE
6.       National Organization.  Within the MOE, 4 General Directorates and
one Directorate are involved in NFVT, under the umbrella of the assistant
under-secretary for technical and vocational education. The main
responsibility for NFVT lies with the General Directorate for Adult and Non
Formal Education (GDANE) which is also the largest provider of NFVT programs.
Currently the GDANE, on behalf of the MOE, has responsibility for ensuring
co-ordination and collaboration between other Ministries conducting similar
activities, autonomous educational institutions, and public and private
enterprises.  All other General Directorates and Directorate are mainly
involved in the provision of formal vocational and technical programs, but
also provide some NFVT in the respective training institutions under their
responsibility.
7.       General Directorate of Adult and Non Formal Education (GDANE).  This
General Directorate oversees a country-wide network of 651 Public Training
Centers (PTCs). In the major cities, the PTCs have classrooms and sometimes
workshop facilities of their own, but also run programs in other premises,
both because of lack of space and because of a well established policy of
extension work in neighbouring suburbs and villages. Elsewhere, the PTCs
generally have only administrative offices and training programs are run in
other premises, some of which are provided by the local municipalities free of
charge. Although the lack of space in the PTCs has some obvious
disadvantages, it has probably been instrumental in fostering the growth of a
large network of NFVT programs in suburban areas, urban settlements
(gecekondus) and villages, which might not have developed if there had been
more extensive- centralized facilities. It has also encouraged a degree of
decentralized management. In 1985 a total of 681,000 students enrolled in 4
to 8 months duration courses provided by PTCs in 149 trades. At the same time
GDANE oversees 59 Apprenticeship Training Centers (ATCs) located in 37
provinces of which 19 have independent buildings and facilities and 40 use the
facilities of vocational high schools. Training is provided in 40 trades and
involves practical training being undertaken in industry, with theoretical
studies being taken in ATCs one day a week. Apprenticeship training lasts
three to four years, and in 1985 there were more than 13,000 apprentices
enrolled in ATCs.
8.       General Directorate of Technical and Vocational Education (GDTVE).
This General Directorate oversees a network of 53 Industrial Practical Trade
Schools (IPTS) of which 49 are located within industrial vocational schools
and 4 are located on independent premises. Courses of 4 to 8 months duration
are offered to young persons and adults, who have a primary school diploma.
Programs are modular, have a 80b workshop content, and cover 28 trades. In
1985 a total of 4,760 students were enrolled in IPTS. A new type of program
which caters for the needs of adults mainly for skill upgrading or career



- 36 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
change is now being developed by GDTVE. Although a total of 13 centers have
been designated as Adult Technical Training Centers (ATTCs). 2 centers only
operated such programs and in 1985 a total of 246 students w#t-e enrolled in
ATTCs.
9.      General Diractorate of Technical and Vocational for Girls (GDTVEG).
This General Directorate is the largest provider of NFVT programs after
GDANE. Courses of various durations (4 to 8 months) are offered in 84 trades
in a network of 463 Practical Trade Schools for Girls (PTSGs). Approximately
half of these institutions are attached to vocational secondary schools and
the other half operate on separate premises. In 1985 a total of 202,000
students were enrolled in PTSGs. In addition GDTVEG operates 6 Women Training
Centers (WTCs) which offer a 2-year program in 11 trades for students who want
to acquire specialized skills through production work. A total of 2,640
students were enrolled in WTCs in 1985.
10.      Directorate of Commerce and Tourism Education (DTCE).  This
Directorate oversees 51 Commerce/Tourism Training Centers (CTTCs) which offer
2 to 6 months training courses in six trades predominantly to people already
employed. All these CTTCs are attached to commercial or tourism secondary
vocational schools. In 1985, a total of 2,650 students were enrolled in these
CTTCs.
11.      Regional Organization.  In each of the 67 Provinces, the Director of
National Education who reports to the Governor, is responsible for all
education and training activities in the Province. He is assisted by a number
of directors, including the Director of Non Formal Vocational Training. The
Director of NFVT has the overall responsibility for overseeing the programs
and deciding upon course offerings according to the needs. He is assisted in
his tasks by various boards and committees. The Adult Education Planning and
Coordination Board at the provincial level is headed by the Governor and
includes the Director of National Education, the Director of Adult Education
representatives from the University, the Provincial administration, the
Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Culture, the Chamber
of Agriculture and voluntary associations involved in non formal education.
The main mission of this Board is to ensure coordination among all agencies
involved in non formal education in the province. At the Provincial level the
Adult Education Planning Board, headed by the Director of Adult Education and
consisting of Directors of Adult Education Centers and specialists provide the
main directions with regard to the training needs, planning and evaluation of
all type of Non Formal Education Programs. The Adult Education Planning and
Coordination Board at the county level, an administrative subdivision of the
Governorate, is headed by the Director of Education and includes
representatives from the schools, municipal administration, chamber of
agriculture, agricultural credit cooperative, local development banks,
chambers of Industry and Commerce. The main mission of this Board is to
implement at the county level, the decisions of the Adult Education Planning
Board of the Province. In addition training centers have Planning Committees
which are headed by the Director of the Public Training Centers and group
senior instructors and specialists in relevant fields. These boards and
committees are the appropriate vehicles to identify the needs and plan
training programs accordingly. At the moment periodic surveys of training
requirements are completed at the county level.
3347V pg. 20-22



- 37 -
Annex 5
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Ministry of Education
Enrollment, Number of Teachers
and Number of NFVT institutions by type, 1985
Number of        |             Enrollment
Directorate/Center  I Centers I Instructors      B 8oys   i Girls      Total
GDE
App Trng Ctr             59         447         13,136                  13,136
Public Trng Ctr         652      3,770         204,241     476,600    680,841
12,000 /a
GDVT!
Adult Tech Trng Ctr      13          -  /b         246           -         246
lndustrial Pr Tr Sch     53         17 /c        4,759           -      4,759
GDCTE
Commerce & Tourism Ctr   51            ./b       1,593       1,062       2,655
GDVTEG
Pr. Trade School        463       7,437             -      201,998    201,998
for Girls
Women Training Centers    6         316                       2,642      2,642
Total                1,297      23,987        223,975     682,302    906,277
Notes:
/a Number of part-time/temporary instructors
/b No separate instructors' training is provided by secondary school
instructors
/c Instructors for 4 independent centers only
3347V/29



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
MON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Ninber of Places Eaui obed. Re-epuuipped. Total Enrollment.
Total Additional Enrollment and Estimated Additional
output from PrletSunrted Institutions
Total Number Total Enrollment Total Additional Annual Total Additional Annual
Catesory of          jiNumberof 1'arnesof Places                 in Project    Enrollment at Project          Output from
Center        B.e-auipined1a EguiRRed/L    Eauipped         Supported Trades ---.   ortep   Centers      Pro lect Centers
App. Trng Centers       2.500        2,800           5,300           27.000                14,000                   3.700 Lkl
Public Trng Centers   13,200        10,900          24,100          144,500                65,200                  52,200 LrC
Adult Tch Trng Ctrs                    500             500            1,100                 1.100                     900 Ld
Corn. & Tourism Ctrs      600        1,200           1.800            4,300                 2.900                   2.300 La
Women Trna. -Centers      300          901.200                        2401.800                                        600 le
TOTAL             1!5.600       16.300 2l90                     179Z300Qf              AL.D0                   iL9f700
,S.gre: Staff Working Papers
Notes La   Total number of training places to be equipped and re-equipped have been estimated on the basis of the first phase.
Lb   Courses are 3 - 4 yr duration and attrition rate is 5-6% per year (80% pass on average).
Lf, Courses are 4 to 6 months duration and attrition rate is 20% per year.
Lgl Courses are 4 to 8 months duration and attrition rate is 20% per year.
La   Courses are 2 yrs duration and attrition rate is 15% per year.
3524V/p23



- 39 -
Annex 7
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORNAL VOCATIONAL TRAIt4ININ  PROJECT
.- - -  -     _ ----   -   --  --- -- -- --- -- --
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Expenditures on Non Formal Education and Training
TL tns
Agency                           1984 actual            1985 est.     1986 budget
6DANE        Investment       1,268.0               1,130.0                  965.0
Recurrent        8,278.0               9,667.0               14,015.0
Subtotal         9,546.0              10,797.0               14,980.0
GBDTE       Investeent          279.0                 920.5
Recurrent          284.5                  64.5                   90.4
Subtotal           563.5                 985.0                   90.4
SDyTEG       Investment         350.0               1,525.0                3,256.0
Recurrent        2,333.0               3,350.6                5,292.0
Subtotal         2,683.0               4,875.6                8,548.0
6DCT         Investment         290.0                 320.0                  457.0
Recurrent        1,470.0      -        2,094.0                2,729.0
Subtotal         1,760.0               2,414.0                3,186.0
TOTAL        Investment       2,187.0               3,895.5                4,678.0
Recurrent       12,365.5              15,176.1               22,126.4
Total           14,552.5              19,071.6               26,804.4
81984 prices   14,552.5               14,105.0               14,149.5
Total flOE   Investeent     46,314.0               66,290.0              94,062.0
Recurrent      312,882.0             399,692.0             524,336.0
Total          359,196.0             465,982.0             618,398.0
NF asX of total
Investment           4.7                    M.9                   5.0
Recurrent            4.0                   3.8                    4.2
Total                4.1                   4.1                    4.3



- 40 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAJNING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Criteria for Assessing Sub-Projects
The criteria agreed upon between the Bank and the MOE for purposes of
selecting non formal vocational training subprojects included in each phase of
the Project are the following:
(a) Eligibility Criteria
Assistance will be provided to existing or new non formal vocational
training programs for school leavers and adults related to the following
skills:
i)  trade skills for productive employment or self employment such as:*
electrical trades, electronics, carpentry, plumbing;
I
(ii) skills related to household production providing income generation
opportunities such as: handicraft, garment making, tricot.
(iii) employable business skills such as typing, word processing, marketing
and foreign languages.
Assistance will also be provided to apprenticeship training programs
covering the full range of industrial trade skills.
Subprojects will focus on segments of the population with little
opportunAy for formal education. These groups include persons in rural
areas, the urban poor and unemployed.
(b) Economic Relevance Criteria
The subproject will be selected on the basis of the following factors:
(i) Economic Demand: Proposals for upgrading existing training programs,
or creating new ones, should be based on the analysis of the
relationship between regional and local trained manpower requirements
and the output from current training programs. Evidence of
appropriate consultations with public and private employers and
municipalities should be presented.
(ii) Income Generation Opportunities: Proposals should also reflect the
current local conditions and explicit the main income generating
activities which could be undertaken by the trainees upon completion
of bhe program with evidence of the costs and benefits of such
activities.



- 42 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Information Summary Sheet
A. Background Information: Socio-economic
1.   Governorate:  Istanbul
2.   Population of district:  59858,600
3.   Literacy rate:  86.92
4.   Main economic activities in district, i.e., type of industries,
household activities, local handicrafts and other employment:
Main activities: manufacturing industries, fisheries, tourism,
handicrafts. Main companies include cable, central heating,
ship repair, motorcycle, matches, shoemaking, jewelry.
5.   Involvement of local employers, trade associations, municipal
authorities and individuals with the center's activities (e.g., land
given, equipment and material donated, trade association involvement);
Land for the new building was donated by the municipality; the
advisory council is very active; and the center gets part-time
teachers, raw materials for instruction from industries.
6.   Information on the Center:  Vocational programs
Equipment
Capacity
Available   Adequacy
Enroll-                              for (Give     of
Trade/                  ment       Output      Existing       Numbers   Equipment
Program     Duration  Last Year  Last Year   Instructors  of Persons)   (YIN)
Heating       24 days      180       158           1             20         N
Sewing         8 m        681        647          19             20         N
Accounting     6 m          34        31            1            20         N
Handicrafts    4 m         134       122           2             20         N
Machine
Embroidery    4 m        155        132           1             20         N
Typing         4 m         85         78           1             20         N



- 41 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
(c) Feasibility Criteria
The feasibility analysis will take into account the following factors:
(i) Social Demand: The selection of the subprojects will take into
account the availability of a sufficient number of applicants with low
educational level and the relative lack of appropriate training
opportunities in the area.
(ii) Instructor Availability: The selection will also be based on the
availability of local instructors for the training specialties to be
offered; otherwise, it should include specific recommendations on
recruiting and retraining required instructors.
(iii) Status of buildings: Availability of good buildings or workshops will
be regarded as essential.
(iv) Lack of equipment: Evidence of the need for equipment in the trades to
be assisted will be provided.
(v) Cooperation of Productive Sector: The explicit interest of local
authorities and leaders of the productive sector is a determining
factor in the success of training programs. Thus the willingness to
offer buildings, equipment, practical release of instructors, or any
other material or general assistance would be important factors in
selecting subprojects.
(vi) Timetable: Subprojects should be implemented within the scheduled
time frame of each phase.
(d) Financial Criteria
The analysis would also take into account the following:
(i) Size of the project: In order to ensure regional equity, each project
will not exceed $500,000.
(ii) Availability of financial resources: Particular attention should be
paid to the assessment of recurrent costs implications of proposed
training activities. The availability of local resources or resources
provided by the Center to cover instructor salaries, materials,
maintenance costs, utilities and others will be a key criteria.
Production Revolving Fund should be created in order to generate
additional revenues.
Doc. No. 3347V/53-54



- 43 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
B.  7.   District needs assessment survey:
Carried out: October-November 1985
How carried out: By provincial committee and the staff of the
center. The committee interviewed individuals and employees.
C.  8.   Center proposals:
New or              Number  of
-   Existing           Training Places           Priority
Trade/Program                N/E              to be  Equipped      (1-High; 2-Low)
Sewing                        E                      20                    2
Garments                      E                      20                    2
Leather Garments              N                      20                    1
M/C Embroidery                E                      20                     1
Shoe Making                   N                      20                    1
Language Lab                  E                      20                    1
Typing                        E                      20                     2
Handicrafts                   E                      20                     1
9.   These proposals for Trades/Programs are in agreement with the needs
of Assessment Survey: Yes.
D. Implications of this Proposal:
10. No. of new instructors required: 6
11. No. of instructors requiring in-service training: 25
12. Availability of space for proposed program: Yes.
E.  Recommendations/Comments by the Director of Education for Governorate
(e.g., expected benefits, priority/importance of this proposal, etc.):
The proposal meets the needs of the district and the center has
adequate capacity to organize the programs efficiently and is therefore
recommended for support.
Signature of
Director of Education
for Governorate
3 347V/i58-5



- 44 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Location of Institutions to be assisted in the first phase
General Directorate of Apprenticeship and Non Formal Education (GDANE)
Public Training Centers
Province         Town
1. Adiyaman   -   Merkez             21. Istanbul    -   Kadikoy
2. Agri       -   Merkez             22. Istanbul    -   Sariyer
3. Agri       -   Tutak              23. Ismir        -   Karsiyaka
4. Ankara      -   7. Aksam Sanat   24. Kars          -   Merkez
5. Ankara      -   Altindag          25. Kars         --  Selim
6. Ankara      -   Yenimahalle       26. Kastamonu   -   Tosya
7. Bingol     -   Merkes             27. Malatya          Akcadag
8. Bingol     .-  Kigi               28. Mardin       -  Merkez
9. Bitlis     -   Merkez             29. Mugla        -   Koycegiz
10. Bitlis      -   Adilcevaz         30. Mus          -   Merkez
11. Bursa           Merkez            31. Mus              Varto
12. Cankiri    -   Merkez             32. Siirt        -   Merkez
13. Diyarbakir -   Lice  ,            33. Siirt        -   Kurtalan
14. Ersinacan  -   Merkex             34. Sinop        -   Merkez
15. Ersurum    -   Merkez             35. Sivas            Merkez
16. Giresun    -   Kesap              36. Sanliurfa   --  Merkez
17. Gumushane  -   Merkez             37. Tunceli      -   Merkes
18. Gumushane  -   Bayburt            38. Tunceli      -   Mazgirt
19. Hakkari    -   Merkez             39. Van          -   Merkez
20. Istanbul   -   Eminonu            40. Van          -   Ozalp
General Directorate of Technical and Vocational Education (GDTVE)
Adult Technical Training Centers
1. Ersincan   -    Markez II.
2. Kastamonu  -    Taskopru
3. Kutahya
General Directorate of Technical and Vocational Education For Girls (GDTVEG 
Women Training Centers
1. Ankara
2. Izmir
3. Samaun



45 -                          Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Directorate of Commercial and Tourism Education (DTE)
Location of Commerce and Tourism Training Centers
1.  Adana       -      Cobanoglu
2.  Ankara      -      Ayranci
3.  Antalya    -       Ayerkez
4.  Bursa       -      Merkez
5.  Gaziantep  -       Merkez
6.  Icel        -      Mersin
7.  Istanbul   -       Zeytinburnu 100.Yil
8.  Iamir       -      CZuhuriyet
9.  Kayseri    -       Merkez
10.  Samsun      -      Merkez
General Directorate of Apprenticeship and Non Formal Education (GDANE)
ApprenticeshiR Training Centers
-.  Adana       -      Merkes
2.  Adana       -      Osmaniye
3.  Ankara      -       Siteler
4.  Ankara      -       Ostim
5.  Ankara      -      Kirikkale
6.  Antalya    -        Menkez
7.  Aydin       --     Merkez
8.  Cankiri    -        Merkez
9.  Denizli    -       Merkez
10.  Eskisehir  -       Merkez
11.  Gaziantep  -        Merkez
12. Istanbul
13. Izmir
14.  Izmir       -       Aliaga
15.  Izmir       -       Odemis
16.  Kayseri    -        Merkez
17.  Konya       -      Merkez
18.  Tokat       -       Merkes
3524V/3  -32



- 46 -
Annex 11
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Cost of Equipment per Student
Cost in US$ (mid-1983 prices) per student
Equipment
Non Formal Vocational
Training Project                                   1,300
Bank wide experience for (78-80)
comparable facilities a/
First decile                                  3,854
Fifth decile                                  1,207
Ninth decile                                    791
aI Source: Unit Area and Unit Cost Estimates in Education Projects,
World Bank (November 1983), Non Formal Vocational Training
Institutions.
3524V pg. 45



- 47 -
Annex 12
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Unit Recurrent Costs per Student in selected trades in 1985
Program           Duration           Recurrent          Unit Recurrent
(in months)     Cost per Student      Cost per Student
In TL           per month in TL
Electricity           3               10,537                3,512
Electronic            4               13,017                3,254
Metal work             8              22,257                2,782
Plumbing              4               14,017                3,504
Garment               8               25,457                3,182
Carpet making          8              21,857                2,732
Source : General Directorate of Adult and Non Formal Education
3524V pg. 44



- 48 -
Annex 13
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Related Documents Available in Proiect File
IBRD - Turkey: Education and Training Sector Survey, July 1986, No. 6249-TU
IBRD - Turkey: Industrial and Vocational Training, July 1983, No. 4496-TU
MOE   - Proposed Project Document (Ankara, March 1986)
MOE   - Equipment Specification List
EMPED - Selected Staff Working Papers
3524V/47



- 49 -
Annex 14
Page I of 11
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Technical Assistance
Terms of Reference
The Government of the Republic of Turkey concluded a loan agreement with the World Bank for US$58.5 million
in support of the Non Formal Vocational Training Project. The proposed project has two objectives: (a) to increase
and improve the supply of well-trained labor for manufacturing industries; and (b) to improve eaployment and income
generation opportunities for young people and adults with little education and training. These objectives would be
achieved by improving the quality of NFVT programs and enhancing their relevance to the labor market needs and by
expanding the num0er of training places in various institutions such as APprenticeship Training Centers and Public
Training Centers.
In particular the project would include:
(a) t'.ining program design and development services (126 months of specialist services and 687 months of
fellowships), to improve the effectiveness of the in-service instructor training system, to strengthen
vocational training programs through improved training needs assessment, program design, instructional
materials development, skill testing and certification. evaluation and development of entrepreneurship
courses;
(b) assistance to NFVT institution through re-equipping of 16,600 existing places and equipping 16,300 new
places, together with minor works; and
(c) new Production Revolving Funds established for the purchase of consumable materials.
The expert services foreseen under the TA component (126 man-months) will be as follows:
Post No.            Number                                   Title                                                  man-Months
1                   6                     In-Service Training Specialists                                           36
2                   1                     Training Needs Assessment Specialist                                       12
3                   1                     Program Design Specialist                                                  18
4                   1                      Learning Resources Specialist                                             12
i                   1                     Skill Testing and Certification Specialist                                 12
6                   1                      Entrepreneurship Development Specialist                                   12
7                   1                     Procurement Specialist (PIU)                                               18
8                   1                     Evaluation Specialist                                                       6
The fellowships foreseen under the TA component (687 man-months) will be as follows:
Duration     Total Duration
Number                                               Purnose                                     --     tin man-months)-
so                               In-service instructor training                                    9               450
4                               Program design                                                   21                84
6                               Learning resources development                                   10                 60
3                               Skill testing and certification                                  12                36
9                               Entrepreneurship development                                      S                45
2                               Procurement                                                       6                 12



- 50 -
Annex 14
Page 2 of 11
REPUBLIC Of tURKEY
NON FORHAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
S-TAFf APPRAISAL REPORT
Technical A5sistance
Terms of Reference
Past No. I                  In-Service Training Specialists (6)
Cauntry                  : Turkey
Prgiect                     Non Formal Vocational Training Project
eneral Fiid              : Technical teacher training
Title of  Post              In-Service Training Specialist in:
1.1 Computing
1.2 Electronics
1.3 Leather garments
1.4 Entrepreneurship development
1.S Skill area to be identified
1.6 Skill area to be identified
Duty Statign                Ankara
Duration of Apoointment    6 months
Suggested Startina Date : November 1987
Descri2tion of Duties
Each specialist will be assigned to an in-service training center identified by GOANE. The specialist will
work in close collaboration with NFEI staff and other specialists assigned to the TA component. The specialist's
major respons'oility would be to train a team of 6 national counterpart staff in the following areas:
(a) the deiign. implementation and teaching of in service training programs;
(b) the prnparation and review of traAning material for in-service programs; and
(c) the eva.uation of in-service training programs.
In addition. the specialist would assist the counterpart team in performing the above duties and would
prepare quarterly progress reports.
The specialists will complete these duties in two phases as follows:
Phase                            Duration                                     Main FocuS
I                             2 months                   lead role in designing and conducting in-service
programs, training counterparts
II                             4 months                   back-up supoort to counterparts, evaluation of
institution development, and remedial action as
needed
Qualifications Reguired :  (a) University degree or equivalent diploma in the speciality area with relevant instructor
training qualifications and industrial experience; (b) extensive experience in appraisal of staff development needs:
planning, designing and conducting in-service training programs in vocational education/NFVT with part of it in
developing countries; (c) famlQiarity with modular instruction and its implications for in-service training.
Lanuage                  : A sound working knowledge of English is essential.  A knowledge of Turkish would be an
advantage.



- 51 -
Annex 14
Page 3 of 11
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FQRMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SITAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Technical Assistance
Terms of Reference
Post No. 2               : Training Needs Assessment Specialist
QMtWrY                   : Turkey
Proiect                  : Non Formal Vocational Training Project
GeneraL Fteld            : Educational research
Title of Post               Training Needs Assessment Specialist
Olity SatiDn                Ankara
Duratigo  of AopointMent :  12 months
Suggested Starting 4ate : November 1987
Description of Duties
The specialist will be assigned to NFEI. The specialist will work, under the general supervision of GOANE,
in close collaboration with NfEl staff and other specialists assigned to the TA component.  The specialist's major
responsibility would be to train a team of four national counterpart staff in the following areas:
(a) the improvement of existing methodology for needs assessment surveys leading to program design in each
district/county (the studies would include socio economic profiles, changing technologies, and overall
economic development prospect, particularly for entrepreneurs):
(b)  the design of instruments and preparation of package for surveys;  and
(c) the design and development of programs and training materials for survey coordinators and teams and
implementation and teaching of in-service training programs.
In addition, the specialist would assist the counterpart team in performing the above duties and would
prepare quarterly progress.
The specialist will complete the work in two phases as follows:
Phase                            Duratjon                                     hain Focus
I                             6 months                   design of survey, completion of pilot surveys,
training of counterparts, coordinators and team
members
II                             6 months                   refinement of study material and methodology,
back up support for counterparts, evaluation of
institution development and remedial action as needed
Oualifications Reauired :  (a) Relevant advanced degree, preferably a Ph.D., including training in research; (b) about
10 years' experience in designing and conducting needs assessment for program development in vocational training and
NFVT with some experience in a developing country.
Language                 : A sound working knowledge of English is essential.  A knowledge of Turkish would be an
advantage.



- 52 -
Anngx 14
Page 4 of 11
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON F1RHAL VOCATIONAL TRAINXHi PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Techntcal Assistance
Terms  of Refekrence
Post No. 3               : Program Design Specialist
country                  : Turkey
Prolect                  : Non Formal Vocational Training ?roject
Genera1 Fiteld              Curriculum development
Title a  Post               Program Design Specialist
Duty St n                : Ankara
Duration of Aplntment :  18 months
Suggested Starting Date    December 1987
Descrintion of Opties
The specialist will be assigned to mFEl. The specialist will work in close collaboration with NFEI staff and
other specialists assigned to the TA component. The specialist's major responsibility would be to train a team of
four national counterpart staff in the following areas:
(a) the preparation of guidelines for program design;
(b) the design of program(s) in some speciality area;
(c) the design, implementation and teaching of in-service training programs in program design; and
(d) the preparation and updating of training material for in-service programs in program design.
In addition the specialist will assist the counterpart team in performing the above duties and wouid prepare
quarterly progress reports.
The specialist will complete these duties in three phases as follows:
Phase                            Duration                                     Main Focus
I                             3 months                   diagnostic work, guidelines for program development
XI                             12 months                  program design. in-service training for national
staff
III                             3 months                   back-up support for counterparts, evaluation of
institution development and remedial action
qu1aifications Required : (a) University degree or equivalent qualification in one of the project specializations
with relevant industrial experience and training/qualifications in program design; (b) extensive experience in program
design in vocational training, including modular program design and preferably some experience in a developing
country: and (c) instructor training experience.
Language                 . A sound working knowledge of English is essential.  A knowledge of Turkish would be an
advantage.



- 53 -
Annex 14
Page S of 11
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINXNc PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
techntca1 Asststance
Terms of Qaference
Post  No. 4              : Learning Resources Specialist
Country                  : Turkey
erlectL   *                 Non Formal Vocational Training Project
General fie]d               Education technology
Title of Post            : Learning Resources Specialist
Quty. Station            : Ankara
Duration of Appointment :  12 months
Sugggted StArtig Date : November 1987
Descriotion of Duties
The specialist will be assigned to NFEI. The specialist will work under GDANE in close collaboration with
NfEI staff and other specialists assigned to the TA component. The spectalist's major responsibility would be to
train a team of six national counterpart staff in the following areas:
(a)  the preparation of guidelines for adaptation of available learning materials and development of new learning
material including modules;
(b)  the development/adaption of learning materials and modules in some speciality areas;
(c)  the design. implementation and teaching of in-service training programs in learning materials
adaptation/development for prospective authors; and
(e)  the design review, trial, and validation procedures for the development of learning materials.
In addition the specialist will assist the counterpart team in performing the above duties and would prepare
quarterly progress reports.
The specialist will complete these duties in two phases as follows:
Phase                             Duration                                     Main Focus
1                             6 months                   adaptation, procedures for modules
adaptation/development. training of counterparts
II                             6 months                    back-up support to counterparts, trial and
validation procedures, development of new learning
materials, evaluation of institution development
remedial action as needed
Oualifications Reouired : (a) University degree or equivalent qualification in one of the project specializations
with relevant additional training/qualifications in design and 4evelopment of learning resources; (b) extensive
experience in design and development of training modules in vocitional training/NFVT and part of it in a developing
country; and (c) instructor training experience.
Language                    A sound working knowledge of English is essential.  A knowledge of Turkish would be an
advantage.



- 54 -
Annex 14
Page 6 of 11
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPOR
Technical Assistance
Terms of Refergpce
Post No, S                : Skill Testing and Certification Specialist
counstry                  :Turkey
Praiect                   : Non Formal Vocational Training Project
General Field                Measurement and testing
Tjtle of Post             :  Skill Testing and Certification Specialist
Duty St±t'jn              : Ankara
Duration of Angointment    12 months
Suagested Starting Date : November 1987
Descriation of Duties
The specialist will be assigned to NFEI. The specialist will work in close collaboration with NFEI staff and
other specialists assigned to the TA component. The specialist's major responsibility wou7d be to train a team of
three national counterpart staff in the following areas:
(a)  the review and assessment of the existing skill testing system;
(b)  the preparation of national guidelines for certification in NFVT
(c)  the preparation of guidelines for performance assessment in NFVT programs with industry's participation;
(d)  the design. implementation and teaching of tn-service training programs in skill testing and certification;
and
(e)  the preparation of material for in-service training programs.
In addition the specialist will assist the counterpart team in performing the above duties and would prepare
quarterly progress reports.
The specialist will complete these duties in three phases as follows:
Phase                             Duration                                      Main Focus
I                              3 months                   diagnostic work, preparation of guidelines
II                              12 months                  certification standards. in-service training
III                              3 months                    back-up support to counterpart, evaluation of
institution development and remedial action as needed
'Ralifications Required :  (a) University degree or equivalent qualification in one of the project specializations
with relevant additional training/qualifications in assessment and testing and industrial experience; (b) extensive
experience in skill testing and certification and part of it in a developing country; and (c) instructor training
experience.
Lancuaae                  : A sound working knowledge of English is essential.  A knowledge of Turkish would be an
advantage.



- 55 -
Annex 14
Page 7 of 11
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NHO  fA.L VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TeChnital Assistance
Terms of Reference
Entrepreneurship Development Specialist
Country                   :  Turkey
Praiect                      M : Non Formal Vocational Training Project
General Field                Management
Title of Post             : Entrepreneurship Development Specialist
RlLtx..5±uX..on           :Ankara
Duration of Aooointment :  24 months
Suggested Starting Date : November 1987
Description of Duties
The specialist will be assinned to GDANE.  The specialist will work in close collaboration with NFEI.
provincial governments, banks, chamber: of coamerce and industry, and other specialists assigned to the TA component.
The specialist's major responsibility would oe to trair a team of five national counterpart staff in the following
areas:
(a) the design and implementation of training programs in entrepreneurship skills and implementation of
in-service training programs for instructors;
(b) the improvement of advisory services currently provided by NFVT centers;
(c) the initiation of credit facilities to NFVT graduates by improving liaison between NFVT centers and
development banks; and
(d)  the reinforcement of follow-up of NFVT graduates by recommending appropriate procedures to GDANE and
provincial governments.
In addition the specialist will assist the counterpart team in performing the above duties and would prepare
quarterly progress reports.
The specialist will complete these duties in three phases as follows:
Phase                             Duration                                      Main Focus
I                              6 months                   diagnostic work, plan training programs and
establish contacts with development banks and
extension organizations
II                              12 months                   start training programs, implement plans, train
counterpart staff
III                              6 months                    support counterpart staff, evaluate implementation,
remedial action as needed
Oualifications Required : (a) Advanced degree, preferably M.B.A., including training in business management and
economics; (b) extensive experience in entrepreneurship development and part of it in a developing country; and
(c) instructor training experience.
Lanuace                   : A sound working knowledge of English is essential.  A knowledge of Turkish would be an
advantage.



- 56 -
Annex !4
Page 8 of 11
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Technical Asststance
Terms of Reference
Post No.                    Procurement Specialist (PIU)
Couantr                  : Turkey
Progct                   : Non Formal Vocational Training Project
General Ejiel               Project management
Title of Post               Procurement Specialist
Duty Sta                    Ankara
Duration of Aaaointment    18 months
Suaaested Starting Date    November 1987
Oescription of Duties
The specialist will be assigned to the PIU. The specialist will work in close collaboration with PIU staff
and other officers responsible for procurement in the MOE. The specialist's major responsibility would be to train a
team of two national counterpart staff in the following areas:
(a) the development of equipment planning and procurement procedures;
(b)  the management of technical assistance program as necessary;  and
(c)  assistance in:
-    preparation of final equipexnt list (as necessary):
-    specifications, bid packages _." bid documents;
-   bid evaluation and selection o-. suppliers;
-    equipment reception, inspection and testing;
equipment installation and commissioning;
-   design of fellowship training progr&ms.
In addition the spccialist will assist the counterpart team in performing the above duties and would prepare
quarterly progress reports.
The specialist will complete these duties in three phases as follows:
Ph,se                            Duration                                     Main Focus
I                             3 months                   diagnostic work, setting up procedures
II                             12 months                  direct involvement in procurement and training
counterparts
III                             3 months                   back-up support to counterparts and further
assistance in procurement as necessary
Oualifications Required :  (a) University degree or equivalent diploma in one of the project specializations and
appropriate qualifications in international procurement; (b) extensive experience in international procurement in
developing countries; and (c) familiarity with World Bank guidelines for procurement.
Lancuaae                    A sound working knowledge of English is essential.  A knowledge of Turkish would be an
advantage.



- 57 -
Annex 14
Page 9 of 11
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
_9N FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
tect ical AssiStanea
Terms of Reference
Post me. J               :  Evaluation Specialist
CQuntr                   : Turkey
Prciect                  : Non Formal Vocational Training Project
General F1iel            : Educational research
Title of Post            : Evaluation Specialist
Duty Station,               Ankara
Duration of AgoginiMent : 6 months
Suggested Startino Date : July 1989
Descrigtion of Duties
The specialist will be assigned to GOANE.  The specialist will work in close collaboration with NFEI staff
and other specialists assigned to the TA component. The specialist will plan, design and execute an evaluation study
focussing on:
(a) responsiveness of training program to the labor market needs;
(b)  adequacy of curricula and instructional materials to the needs of the target group;
(c) ability of graduates to find employment and performance in the workplace;
(8)  efficiency of in-service training programs and performance of Instructors;
(e) developnent of entrepreneurship skills.
The report would be completed by June 1990.
Qualifications Reguired :  (a) Advanced degree. preferably a Ph.O.. including training in research and/or evaluation
methodology; (b) extensive experience and familiarity with NFVT in a developing country; and fc) experience in
conducting similar studies In developing countries.
Lanouage                 :A sound working knowledge of English is essential.  A knowledge of Turkish would be an
advantage.



- 58 -
Annex 14
Page 10 of 11
REPUpLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAff APPRAISAL REPORT
Fellowshin Prooram
Terms of Reference
1.       In Service Training
The fellowship training program in in-service training will be organized to upgrade and update the knowledge
of SO senior trainers in the NFVT system and to prepare them to provide in-service training to other instructors at
selected centers.
Each fellowship program will be organized by a competent agency and will consist of:
(a) content and skill upgrading in speciality areas;
(b) design of in-service training programs and relevant instructional material;
(c) instructor training skills;
(d) a study tour of similar NFVT centers in selected countries.
Duration        : 9 months
Oate               January 1988 and October 1989
2.       Program Design
The fellowship training program in progsam design will be organized to prepare a group of four senior NFVT
trainers to increase relevance of training programs to labor market needs. These trainers will conduct in-service
training in program design at selected centers in Turkey.
Each fellowship training program in program design will be organized by a competent agency and will consist
of:
(a) needs assessment methodology;
(b) design of instruments
(c) data collection, interpretation and report writing;
Id) modular program design and implementation
(e) instructor training skills.
uration         : 21 months
Oate               October 1987
3.           ajjo Resources Development
The fellowship program in learning resources development will be organized to prepare a group of six senior
NFVT trainers to adapt and upgrade existing' learning material and to develop new learning resources, including modules
and conduct in-service training programs in,learning resources development.
Each fellowship program will be organized by a competefnt agency and will consist of:
(a) learning resources development cycle;
(b) methodology for adapting/developing modules;
(c) development of a variety of learning resources;
(d) instructor training skills.
Duratign        :  10 months
Date               January 1988
4.       Skill Testing ang Certification
The fellowship program in skill testing and certification will be organized to prepare a group of three
senior NFVT trainers to improve employability of NFVT graduates by developing skill standards and certification
procedures.
Each fellowship program will be organized by a competent agency and will consist of:
(a) skill assessment techniques;
(b) performance assessment in modular instruction;
(c) techniques of establishing trade certification standards;
(d) instructor training skills.
Ourat10n        :  12 months
Oate            : January 1988



- 59 -
Annex If
Page 11 of ll
REPURLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Technigal Assistance
Terms of Referenge
5.       Entreareneurship Develooment
The fellowship program in entrepreneurship development will be organized to prepare 9 managers in the HOE to
improve NFVT program planning and management for entrepreneurship development.
Each fellowship program will be organized by a competent agency and will consist of:
(a) design of entrepreneurship development programs;
(b) management of entrepreneurship development;
(c) prospects for innovations in Turkey;
(d) a study tour of entrepreneurship development programs in selected countries.
Duration           S months
OAte            : January 1988, January 1990
6.       International Procurement
The fellowship training program in international procurement will be organized to prepare two senior
procurement officers in the PIU to manage the complex procurement of equipment for an estimated 270 different
institutions in the project.
Each fellowship program will be organized by a competent agency and will consist of:
(a) international procurement procedures;
(b) preparation of bid documents and bid evaluation;
(c) equipment reception, inspection and testing;
(d) management of technical assistance.
Duration        : 6 months
flaLn           : January 1988, January 1989
3347V/62-72



- 60 -
Annex 15
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT (NFVT)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Terms of Reference of Evaluation Study
The study will make a thorough evaluation of the following aspects:
(a) improvement of training needs assessment surveys and their impact on
the relevance of trainivg programs to the labor market needs;
(b) ability of graduates to find employment, to include a follow-up of
the employment record of the graduates (first graduates of the
project will enter employment in 1988);
(c) performance of the graduates on tbe job through interviews with
employers;
(d) success in adapting existing curricula and developing new one;
(e) effectiveness of new in-service training for instructors and
performance of instructors;
(f) development of the entrepreneurship skill training and information
system on financial and advisory services.
When completed (by June 1990) the study will be sent to the Bank for
review and comments. The Bank will follow up with the Government on proposed
recommendations and appropriate corrective measures.
3S24V/SO



- 61 -                             Schedule I
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON-FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Technical Assistance: Specialists
I              Staffmonths (FY)
Component            I 88  | 89  1 90  | 91  I 92             93    Total)
1. In-Service Training                12             24                             36
2. Training Needs Assessment           6              6                              12
3. Curriculum Design                   3             12      3                       18
4. Instructional Materials             6       6                                     12
5. Skill Testing and Certification   3         6             3                      12
6. Entrepreneurship Courses            3       6      3      -                       12
7. Support to PIU                      3      12             3                       18
8. Evaluation Study                                   6 _  6                          6
TOTAL                              36      30     51      9                     126
Technical Assistance: Fellowships
I              Staffmonths (FY)
Component            188        89     90      91     92 1931 Total
1. In-Service Training                150      75    200      25                    450
2. Curriculum Design                   40      44                                     84
3. Instructional Materials             38      22                                     60
4. Skill Testing and Certification   18        18                                     36
5. Entrepreneurship Courses            20             25                              45
6. Support to PIU                        6     _6                                     12
TOTAL                              272    159    231       25                    687
3S24V pg. 46



REPUBLIC OF TIUREY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINI  PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL tEPt)T
Imelementation Schedule (All Tranehes)
CY      87       1     8;U     1     8 I          9|      I 90   I     91  II     93               I     94
_       ~~Conmonelnt                FY   87          8889                       9°91                       92            93            94            95
Publjc Training Institutions:
-  Refurbishing Institution Survey                                     ***** ****                 00000 00000
- Tendering                                =====                                                    000000
- Contract Implementation                                  =oooooooo oo
- Equipment:
-  Final Equipment Lists                                                                               0000000
-  Equipment Layouts                                                                                        000000
- Tender Ducuments                                       _=0 000
- Tender and Contracts                                                                                                000000
-  Delivery and Installation                                                                                                 00 000000
Aporenticeship Training Institutions:
- Equipment:
-  Final Equipment Lists                 ==== =                                                        0o 
-  Equipment Layouts                                                                                 00000000
-  Tender Documents                                                                                       0000
- Tender and Contracts                                 ---- ==_                                               0000 00
-  Delivery and Installation                                    ===* *                                                 o o
FY                                                                                   93            94            951,    4 l v I 9                          
CY   87      1  88990                               i     91     1     92    9       9    i                              -
Project Completion_
June 1995
Closing Date
December 1995
1st tranche
2nd tranche
ooooo 3rd tranche                                                                                                                                              m c
1524V/p21/158w
on0



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY.  4NM FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Imni ueentation Schndule tAl1 Tran(A) es
C ~   ~      ~    ~~~      87 IF                             i    988            91     1 ~9Q§  92      93         14    95
Adult Technical Training Centers:
- Equipment:
-  Final Equipment Lists              =====00000 00000
- Equipment Layouts                                                        *                     ooooooo
- Tender Documents                                                                                  0000
- Tender and Contracts                              -==, t==                  ***** ***                  00000 0000
- Delivery and Installation                                                                                      00000090
Comnerce and Tourism Trainina Centers:
-  Equtpment.
-  Final Equipment Lists                         = =* *                                               o
-  Equipment Layouts                               =__==                                               000000
- Tender Documents                                    ==                                                    00 000
- Tender and Contracts                                      = -.                                                  0000000                                   0
- Delivery and Installation                     .00 000000
Maturity Centers:
- Eauipment:
-  Final Equipment Lists                      = ==0*                                                   o
-  Equipment Layouts                                                                                    000000
- Tender Documents                                    == =*o
- Tender and Contracts                                     = ==**o
- Delivery and Installation                                        =*                                                       000000
CY             I      a ig                      go 8!i                     i;           91 ,
FYY  87 Si     8      1    89       1    90      1    91      1    92       1    93      1     94     1     9
Project effectiveness                                                                        Project Completion_
July 1. 1987                                                                               June 3. 199S
Closing Date
December 31. 1995    I
1st tranche                                                                                                                                       X 5
2nd tranche                                                                                                                                        m  
ooooo 3rd tranche                                                                                                                                          o.
3!..4-. p20/158w                                                                                                                                         K  -
P-



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
WON ii)RNAL VOAINA   RINING PROJ2C
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IqlJientation Schedule (All Tranchesl
-        ~~~CY                          I             I    90       I    91            92 1    92 I    9                  i
Comoonent                 F    87         ,8            89            90      .    91            92 .         93            94           95
Technical Assistance:
-  Preparation of Terms of Reference
-  Preparation  of Bid Dociments             ---
-  Bidding and Award                             =
- Specialists
-  Fellowships
Books and Nodules:
-  Acquisition                                                                                           oooooO
- Copyright Negotiations                                                                               00000000
.                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oooo oooooooooooo oooooo   ooooo
-  Translation                                                                                                 000S00000
- Printing
0000 000000000000 000000000000 00000000000
Strenathenina PIU:
-  Additional Staff Procurement Sp.                 ==                       =
CY        I           8       89    8      90            1 1          92       1    93 1         1      9              -5  _
Project Completion_
June 199S
Closing Date
December 1"9S
1st tranche
2nd tranche
ooooo 3rd tranche
3524V/pl9
58 w
*0 



- 65 -
MIE    or TILY                                        Schdue  III
aN Vm  UWISIL PRJICI
Sir wams& KM
Estiated Scledule of Dlsburseaents
(in USI Killins)
.......... . ............ . ..... ............... ..... . ........_ . _. _.._...... ..............._ ._ ....----
Oisbut$
10  fiscal Yer             ... . .     ----*..--                 Lean              Ihts              lurkey
ad Ster                 Sister           Cwlatie            8ale1             Project a/         vRa   w
.................... ................................ .................. ................................... . . .......... ._........................... 
--- -----        (US$ llIlins)     --------          ---------    I   --------
1988
1                       3.0                3.0              S5.5               5.1               1.0
2                       0.5                3.5              55.0               6.0               5.0
1989
1                       1.0                4.5              54.0               7.7              11.0
2                       2.0                 6.5             52.0              11.1              18.0
1                       3.5               10.0              48.S              17.1              27.0
2                        .S               14.5               4.O              24.8              36LO
1991
1                       6.0               20.5              38.0              35.0              46.0
2                       6.5               27.0              31.5              16.?              55.0
1992
1                       7.0               34.0              24.5              58.1              64.0
2                       7.5               41.5              17.0              70.9              72.0
1993
1                       6.0               47.5              11.0              11.2              80.0
2                       4.5               52.0               6.5              88.9              86.0
19"
1                       3.0               55.0               3.5              94.0              91.0
2                       2.0               574)               1.5              97.4 c/           95.0
1995
1                         1               58.0               0.5              99.1                98
2                       0.5               58.5               0.0             100.0               100
.. __ . ...... . . .............. ... ... __ ----........... . ... . .......... . .. . ... . ....
at This profile ds Anmulaive  dl         e   wertags for the prood project.
bh  This profile as cucstted  sing bisorical dMa fro 65 projects
reprunting all low  ad creits in Turkey during the priod fm6-85
et Project Clositg lte: December  31,  1995



- 66 -
Schedule IV
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Implementation Plan
Component                                                   Target Dates
Prolect Implementation Unit
1. Appointment of additional staff                                    12/31/87
Technical Assistance
1. TA proposals sent to Bank for review                               02/28/87
2. Short list of selected bidders sent
to Bank for review                                                05/30/87
3. Invitations to submit proposals
from selected companies/
institutions issued by PIU                                        06/31/87
4. Contract awarded for TA                                             09/30/87
5. Draft TA contract sent to Bank
for review                                                        10/31/87
6.  TA contract signed                                                 12/31/87
7.  Target completion date for all TA                                 06/30/91
Technical Books/Modules
1.  Acquisition of textbooks/modules completed                         12/31/87
2.  Copyright negotiation                                              12/31/87
3. Translation (continuous)
4. Development of modules (continuous)
5. Reproduction (continuous)
Supply of Equipment for National
Institute of Non-Formal Education and PIU
1.  LCB for equipment                                                  12/31/87
Revolving Funds
1.  Opening of revolving funds                                         12/31/87
2. All revolving funds opened                                          12/31/93



- 67 -
Schedule IV
Page 2 of 2
Component                                                      Target Dates
1st          2nd           3rd
Tranche      Tranche       Tranche
Refurbishment of PTCs
1.  Survey of PTCs                              07/31/87      07/00/89    07/00/91
2.  Completion of work                          07/31/89      07/00/91    07/00/93
Equipment
1. Finalization of equipment lists
for all institutions included
in the first tranche                        08/31/87     08/00/89    08/00/91
To be followed six months later
by all other component lists
2.  Lists forwarded to Bank for review          11/30/87      11/00/89    11/00/91
3. Preparation of bidding
specifications and bidding
documents                                   02/29/88      02/00/90    02/00/92
4. Specifications and bidding
documents sent to Bank for review           04/30/88      04/00/90    04/00/92
5. Completion of bidding and bid
evaluation                                  10/31/88      10/00/90    10/00/92
6.  Delivery completed                          04/30/89      04/00/91    04/00/93
7.  Installation and commissioning              07/31/89      07/00/91    07/00/93
3524V/40-41



REPUOLIC OF TURKEY
NO Fol"L VICATXDMAL TRAThXMB PMIECT
BrmIzatiefn Ghar gf 4 
----------------------------------Minister o  Eductont-i--------------------------------------
National Education                                                                   Technical and       outh adservie
Coinssion                                                                        Vocational            Cooission
,    Education
Cmdission
Schools      Legal      National        Research
Inspectorate                Board of       Planning
Education        and
Coordination
-------------------------------------------------O0 E P A R T N E N T S ---------------------------------------------
I                          I                                  I                               I                       I
Personnel                  Financial                         Technical                       Youth and                General
and Vocational                       Sports
Educational
I                ehncl  an                        
------------ _________-______----__ -__ _D 1 r e c t o r a t e s--------------------l-----------------------
Investment. establishment,          Tec    :&I and              Education aids,            Sports and physical       General secondary
and building services (DIEBS)       vocational (DTVE)           materials and              education                 schools
- Accounts and a_inistration        Project Imple-              equipment (DEANE)                                    Primary schools
- Health                            mentation Unit (lPIU)                                                            Overseas education
- Publications                      - Apprenticeship and                                                             Special and
- Data proedssing                     non-formal training                                                            handicapped
- Commercial and tour-                                                          schools
tsw schools                                                                   Religious schools
- Girls technical and                                                           Private schools
vocational education                                                          Relations with YK
- Revolving funds
Inservice training
3476V



REPUBUC OF TURKEY
NON-FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Structure of Educotion and Training System and Access to NFVT, 1986
PrimwrY                   Lower Secondary                    Seoonday                               HIgher
General Lycee
Vocoltional Lycee'
Technicai Lycee                         Univers1ty (4 yamrs
ANADOLU Lyooee'              _UniVersity 12years) 2
Vocatlonal Programs              cAtem                           Nontfomal Vowcfionol
Include provision of                                                Training Centers
-Industrial trodes                                          * Practicol Trade Schools
-Commerce & Touisrm                                          * Public Training Centers
-Vocational program for girls                               * Proctical Trode School for Girls
2 year Prograrns Include                                      * Adult Technicol Tradning Center
-Instructor Training                                        * Commero & Tourism Center
-Technical Training Centers etc.                            * Maturity Center
Grode 1       2      3      4       5         6      7       8           9      10    'I                        12     13       14      Is
Age  6        7      8      9       tO       11    12       43          14      IS     16                       17     18        19     20
World Bonk-30495



- 70 -
Chart III
REPLIC OF TURKRY
Structure of Technical and Vaatioflal Education
in the Ministry of Educatlin
Minister
Board of
Education
Under-Secretary
Deputy Under-Secretary   |                                         Other Deputy
Technical - Vocational                                           Under-Secretaries
Education
|P.I.U. |
I _
General Directorate          | General Directorate               G General Directorate
Vocational and               of Apprenticeship and              of Technical and
Technical Education             Non formal Education             Vocational Education
I _______________________   I                   I     I       for Girls                  Directorate of Commercel
and Tourism Education
3347V/p.31
120w



-71l -                                            Chart IV
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Mot FORMAL IoctoATIDL TRAINING
Structure ot General Direetorate ot Aporenticeshin and Non Formal gducation
Goneral Director  of
Apprenticeship and
mroanliatiFnr
I    Assistant                                                                          f      Assistant
General D1racttor |                                                                        aerAl D1Arector|
NEducaton rnstm tual
Degartm.nt Director                             eAnartz ht Director                       Deoartment Director
- Literacy                                     - Apprenticeship                            - Administrative Affairs
- Vocational/Technical Education               - Program development                       - Legal
- Budget                                       - General. social and cultural              - Personnel
education
- Equipment                                                                                - Data Processing
- In-Service training
- textbooks Publication                                                                    - Evaluation
- Research/Planning Coordina-
- Research/Planning Coordination                 tin
3147V/l.30
120w



- 72 -                                    Chart V
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
INON-FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STRUCTURE
DEPUTY
UNDER-SECRETARY
FOR TECHNICAL
& VOCATIONAL
EDUCATON
MANAGEMENT
COMMITE
P.I.U.                     WORL BANK
GENERAL
DIRECTORATL3
ANKARA
GOVERNOR
OF THE
PROVINCE
PROVINCIAL ADULT
EDUCATION
PLANNING &
COORDINATION
BOARD
PROVINCIAL
DIRECTOR OF
EDUCATION
_   ~~~~~~~~I_
DIRECTOR OF
NON-FORMAL
VOCATIONAL
TRANING
COUNTY ADULT
EDUCAnON
PLANNING &
COORDINAnON
BOARD
NON-FORMAL
TRAINING
I NSTITUTaONS
WORLD BANK 30605



280                                                          320
BULGARIA ,-f                   \l
EDIRNE  @KIRKLAFELI                                                                                                             A   3SINOP
A                                                 @ ZONWJLDAK                  Task6ptu
GREECE                  TEKIRDA              0   Seriyero                                                                        a
7                  @          ISTANBUL        A                                                              KASTAMONU
I                             > ^ ~~~~~~~~~~KaqlkiSY
Zeylinburnu Enonu                                                                      A
IZMIT                                                     Tosya;
@  @                 B~~~~~OLU
,                                                    ~~~~~~~~~ ~         ~~~AOAPAZARt  0@
ADAPAZAI                                     i;ANKIRI                         AMASY
40;ANAKKALE                                  A 0                                                                                         ORUM
3URSA          BILECIK                                        A
A  Altindag
BALIKESIR                                                          YeniMahaIIeoo    I
0  0   ESKI$EHIR              Ayranfl   ANKARA0KirikkOe             @ YOZGAT
3                                              KUTAHYA
KIR5EHIR
Atlilga                                                                                                         .
(                  <it MANISA                          UIAK            0AFYON
;               0IZMIR                                                                                                              NEVSEHIR             KA
Odemis
Aydin               OENIZLI                                                 KONYA         '
\   * i ISPARTA                     0
8URDU
)                   MUGLA
Koycegiz                               0
(                                                         3A ANTALYA                                                        M
MERSIN    ~ N
36e
Uesa                                                                                                        CYPRUS
fxfd- IS Of
wIse  of 55.MW  _s
_IIS Sw* of nW 
280                                                               320
c*~~_wa>r.c s 



IBAD 19788
U.S. S.R.
I ARTVIN
eSAMSLIN-
OROU @      @ RIZE
OROU (9                          TRABZON
GIREXU8                                                                     0 1ARS
IASYAs0 ASeSlim
TOKAT                    GUMbSHANE                                                                 aOt
BayBurt
EZURUM
0A                      A AdRi
SIVAS                                   ERZINCAN                                        0Tutati                      IS       C
A      A                      A                       S ~~~~~~~~~ISLAMIC
A              Q.          AO ,   ^ to                                      tREPLIBLIC
TUNCELI                               v\ (EUL
MazQiI              orNGOL           MU$         Aducevaz                   oO&'p   IRAN
KAYSERI                                             LZi                                                                    VANA<
K A Y~~~~~~~~ R I ~~~~E                L A Z IG 0                 0   L i c e             0 A                  * A
.) L!e                 WTLUS/
Cl, MdALATYA 
jkcadas                               @tDIYARBAKIR    Kurtaan         T                                   /
A   DIYAMAN                                                                                  HAKKAR        \
KAHRAMAN MARAS
MARDIN                        /          -  ..-      /  -
sokNLIURFA_,J
Osmaniye o                                         A                     ,
NhA                         GAZIANTEP
tNA  ~ ~~~~~/I R A Q
)               SYRIAN  ARAB  REPUBLIC                                                                                               3
i                                            1                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~36t
ANrAKYA     )
TURKEY
NON FORMAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
A    Public Training Centers                           o   Cities and Towns
Apprenticeship Training Centers                  o   Province Capitals
A    Adult Technical Training Centers                 ®    National Capital
'    Commerce and  Tourism Training Centers                 Province Boundaries
Maturity Institutions                                 International Boundaries
LEBANON 
160  z                                                            400                                                                  440
JULY 1986



