      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      Proj. in Support of Restruc. of Health (P102172)



                                                                                                                    Report Number : ICRR0020218


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                              Project Name
 P102172                                                 Proj. in Support of Restruc. of Health

 Country                                                 Practice Area(Lead)
 Turkey                                                  Health, Nutrition & Population



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                       Closing Date (Original)                                        Total Project Cost (USD)
  IBRD-77170                                             31-Jul-2013                                                                 75,125,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                     Closing Date (Actual)
  11-Jun-2009                                            30-Sep-2015

                                                                IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                     Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                              75,125,000.00                                                             0.00

  Revised Commitment                                               66,446,322.22                                                             0.00

  Actual                                                           65,495,550.35                                                             0.00




 Sector(s)
 Public administration- Health(78%):Health(17%):Compulsory health finance(5%)

 Theme(s)
 Health system performance(64%):Injuries and non-communicable diseases(13%):Other communicable diseases(8%):Administrative and
 civil service reform(12%):Public expenditure, financial management and procurement(3%)

 Prepared by                          Reviewed by                          ICR Review Coordinator               Group
 Antonino Giuffrida                   Soniya Carvalho                      Joy Behrens                          IEGHC (Unit 2)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    According to the Loan Agreement, “the objectives of the project are: (i) to increase the effectiveness of the Social Security Institution (SSI)
    and Ministry of Health (MOH) in formulating and implementing reforms in provider payments and health systems performance; and (ii)
    piloting output-based financing for non-communicable diseases (NCD) prevention and control.”
    A Level 1 restructuring took place in January 2014, and the development objectives were revised as follows: “The objective of the Project is
    to increase the effectiveness of the Ministry of Health in formulating and implementing reforms in provider payments and health systems
    performance.” The revisions consisted of the dropping of the second original objective, and the removal of the SSI from the first original
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        Proj. in Support of Restruc. of Health (P102172)



     objective.
     This review will undertake a split evaluation of the project, prior to and following the Level 1 restructuring. When the restructuring took place,
     US$49.12 million of the Loan had been disbursed, 68.7% of the US$71.54 million disbursed at closure.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     Yes


     Did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
     Yes


     Date of Board Approval
     15-Jan-2014


c.   Components
     There were three original components:

     Component A: Support for MoH’s Strategic Plan for 2010-2014 to build the capacity of the MoH to become an effective steward of
     the health sector and complete service delivery reforms (appraisal US$61.82 million, actual US$70.55 million). Sub-components:
     A.1. Strengthening preventive and primary health care services by scaling-up the family medicine program, and supporting the MoH in
     implementing preventive health care services for the control of communicable and non-communicable diseases.
     A.2. Implementing public hospital reforms: to pilot and implement nation-wide the Public Hospital Union model, this would transform MOH
     hospitals in Turkey into public enterprises.
     A.3. Improving the quality of health services: to build the capacity of the MoH’s Performance Management Department and enhance its
     role in the implementation of pay-for-performance (P4P) systems in Turkey and regulate health providers with the objective of ensuring
     good quality health services.
     A4. Institutional restructuring and capacity building: to support the restructuring of the MoH, and the strengthening of strategic
     management capacity to implement new financing methods in the field of performance-based budgeting while ensuring standardization,
     continuity and coordination in specialty and in-service training programs.
     A.5. Managing pharmaceutical and medical devices regulation: to assist the MoH in implementing the National Medicine Policy, which
     aims at ensuring rational drug use, increasing the quality of medicine, vaccines and biological products, implementing institutional
     arrangements for assuring Good Clinical Practices and Good Manufacturing Practices, and increasing capacity to implement market
     surveillance and inspection. In addition, with the January 2014 restructuring, the undisbursed funds under sub-component A.5 were
     reallocated within Component A as the newly established Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency would not be able to disburse
     funds due to its new budget structure.
     A.6. Improving health information systems: to support the expansion of the MoH National Health Information System (HIS) in order to (i)
     improve health informatics standards, confidentiality, security and privacy principles of personal and institutional health records, (ii)
     establish a data warehouse within the scope of decision support systems; and (iii) initiate data the establishment of tele-medicine and tele-
     health systems.
     A.7. Supporting inter-sectoral health responsibility implementation of the Government’s Health Transformation Program and aligning
     health policies with world standards: to: (i) assist the MoH implement inter-sectoral cooperation and aligning health policies with
     international standards, especially in accordance with European Union (EU) guidelines; (ii) strengthen the capacity of the Project
     Management and Support Unit (PMSU) to efficiently coordinate the use of international financing/donor resources in the health sector; and
     (iii) build capacity within the “Public-Private Partnerships (PPP) Unit of MoH”.

     Component B: Piloting Output-Based Financing for Non-communicable Diseases (NCD) Prevention and Control (appraisal
     US$9.16 million, actual US$0.00 million). Sub-components:
     B.1. Output-based financing for family medicine practices.
     B.2. Capacity-building for provincial and central levels implementation of output-based financing pilot.

     Component C: Capacity building of the Social Security Institution (appraisal US$4.14 million, actual US$0.81 million): to enhance
     the Social Security Institution’s (SSI) capacities for the implementation and promotion of UHI so that SSI becomes a strategic purchaser in
     the health sector and makes evidence-based decisions vis-à-vis the implementation of provider payment reforms, public and private
     provider contracts and continuous update of the Universal Health Insurance (UHI) benefits package. Sub-components:
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       Proj. in Support of Restruc. of Health (P102172)



    C.1 SSI capacity-building for the implementation and promotion of UHI: technical assistance on: (i) provider payment systems, enhanced
    contracting mechanisms and pay-for-performance systems; (ii) implementing an Integrated Claims and Utilization Management System;
    and (iii) development of capacity in producing evidence-based information for the Reimbursement Commission on clinical guidelines, cost-
    effective health, pharmaceutical and medical technology interventions through the development of Health Technology Assessment (HTA)
    capacity.
    C.2. Project management: to finance the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).

    The project was restructured three times:

       • March 2013 - Level 2 restructuring: (i) extension of the Loan Closing Date by 22 months from July 31, 2013 to May 31, 2015; (ii)
       change of the project name from “Health Transformation and Social Security Reform Project (HTSSRP)” to “Project in Support of
       Restructuring of Health Sector (PSRHS)”; and (iii) project components revisions: (1) sub-components A.3 and A.4 were revised in line
       with the organizational restructuring according to the Decree Law no. 663; and (2) sub-component A.9 was introduced to strengthen
       collaboration with other countries and international institutions in health policy development and to share Turkey’s experiences.
       • January 2014 - Level 1 restructuring: (i) Component B was cancelled in accordance with the decision not to pilot the output-based
       financing scheme for non-communicable diseases, but to implement it nationally; some funds originally planned for support to
       implementation and monitoring of the activities were reallocated to Component A; (ii) all the capacity building activities for the SSI
       (except for a few training sessions already completed) were cancelled; (iii) the project development objectives were modified as the
       parts related to the output-based financing pilot and capacity building in the SSI were no longer relevant; and (iv) some funds originally
       planned for support to implementation and monitoring of the pilot under Component B were reallocated to Component A.
       • May 2015 - Level 2 restructuring: (i) a second 4 months extension from May 31, to September 30, 2015.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
    Project cost. At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US$75.12 million equivalent. Actual total cost was US$71.54 million,
    including a front-end fee of US$0.18 million (ICR, Annex 1).
    Financing. The Loan was denominated in euros. The original Loan amount was €56.10 million (US$75.12 million equivalent, equal to the
    expected total project cost). €2,475,591 (US$3.89 million equivalent) of IBRD financing was cancelled at the Level 1 restructuring of
    January 2014 (ICR, Table 1, page 7). Final disbursement was equivalent to US$71.36 million (the total project cost at closure less the
    front-end fee).
    Borrower contribution. No Borrower contribution was envisaged.
    Dates. The closing date of the IBRD Loan was extended twice for a total of 26 months: (i) the March 2013, Level 2 restructuring,
    extended the closing date by 22 months from July 31, 2013 to May 31, 2015; (ii) the May 2015, Level 2 restructuring, authorized a further
    extension of 4 months from May 31, 2015, to September 30, 2015.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   Original Objectives: Substantial
   The objectives were relevant to the World Bank Group’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) with Turkey for the period 2012-2015, in
   particular to the second of three pillars or strategic objectives: “Improved Equity and Public Service.” The CPS (paragraph vii) mentions
   among the activities to be supported under this pillar “strengthening the Ministry of Health’s stewardship functions (not its role as service
   provider),” as well as the Bank contributing to “a more effective and financially sustainable health system.” The PDO were also relevant to the
   2008-2011 CPS. Specifically the project’s goal of increasing the effectiveness of the health system supported Pillar II of the CPS: “Equitable
   Human and Social Development.”
   The project supported the Government’s Health Transformation Program (HTP) and overall Ninth Development Plan that aimed to improve
   public health, provide health insurance for all citizens, expand access to care, and develop a patient-centered system that could address
   health inequities and improve outcomes, especially for women and children. The envisaged output-based financing pilot for family medicine
   practices for non-communicable diseases (NCD) prevention and control was appropriate to the country’s epidemiological transition toward
   NCDs.

   Revised Objectives: Modest
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            Proj. in Support of Restruc. of Health (P102172)



       The revised objective, which is restricted to increasing the effectiveness of the Ministry of Health to formulate and implement reforms, remains
       relevant to the second pillar of the 2012-2015 CPS. However, both the dropping of the output-based financing for NCDs and the removal of
       nearly all the planned capacity building activities in the SSI reduce the relevance of the project’s objectives. The emphasis of the CPS (see in
       particular, paragraph 34) is on improving the operation of UHI, addressing the underlying drivers of health spending to strengthen further the
       long term sustainability of the health system, a review of the basic benefits package, strengthened pharmaceutical policies, hospital autonomy,
       and the introduction of incentives for family medicine providers to act as gatekeepers to the system, particularly in strategic areas like Non-
       Communicable Diseases.




       Rating                                                                               Revised Rating
       Substantial                                                                          Modest


   b. Relevance of Design

       Original Objectives: Modest
       The project was designed to provide technical support to the ongoing process of health sector reform in Turkey. The project envisaged reforms
       involving both the financing and the delivery of health services. Key among these were strengthening primary health care (through scaling up
       the family medicine model and addressing NCDs via output-based financing), continuing hospital reforms (principally by converting hospitals
       into public enterprises), enhancing health management information, and building institutional capacity. However, as the ICR (page 11)
       acknowledges there is an element of disconnect between the primary objective of assisting the Ministry of Health to become a more effective
       steward of the health system, and many of the activities, which were largely aimed at improving the quality of service at the primary care level.
       This is clearly reflected in the set of outcome and intermediate outcome targets focusing on inputs (training), outputs (the number of visits) and
       outcomes (patient satisfaction) relating to service delivery.

       Revised Objectives: Modest
       The elimination of the activities related to output-based financing for NCDs and (except for a limited number of training sessions) to
       strengthening the capacity of the SSI, brought the disconnect referred to above into sharper relief. More than half the activities (both in terms of
       number and of financing) in Component A (which was dedicated to the Ministry and was in effect the only component remaining after the
       restructuring) were linked directly to improved service delivery and only indirectly to enhancing the Ministry’s stewardship role.




       Rating                                                                               Revised Rating
       Modest                                                                               Modest




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     Increase the effectiveness of the Ministry of Health (MOH) in formulating and implementing reforms in provider payments and health
     systems performance.

    Rationale
    Outputs
    Strengthening primary health care through expanding the Family Medicine model:

        • 575 family physicians and 3173 community health care staff were trained.
        • A workload analysis was conducted to standardize work procedures for more effective service delivery and better quality of care by
        family physicians. Job descriptions of Family Medicine personnel were revised in line with the results of the analysis.
        • Various research studies were conducted on areas including workload of FM physicians, patient and provider satisfaction, women’s
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      Proj. in Support of Restruc. of Health (P102172)



   health, infant and under-five mortalities, reimbursement and pricing policies on pharmaceuticals.
   • A Distant Health Learning System (USES) was established. USES has a total of 31 training modules (15 modules on public health, 4
   modules on personal development and 16 modules on health management). There are 27,215 health care personnel registered to
   USES. Each registered participant completed three programs on average.
   • Evidence-based clinical practice guidelines for family physicians were developed and published on the web.


Implementing public hospital reform:

   • A proof-based diagnosis and treatment manual for secondary health care services was developed.
   • Training was provided to over 300 Ministry of Health personnel and social workers on increasing access to treatment and quality of
   services in the clinics of the Alcohol and Substance Addicts’ Treatment and Training Center.


Improving the quality of health services:

   • Training was provided to key MoH staff on quality standards and assurance, and on the operation of ICD 10 AM DRG (a WHO
   medical classification system).
   • Four international congresses were held on performance and quality systems in the health sector.
   • The fifth version of the Health Quality Standards, and accreditation standards in health, were developed.
   • The number of Diagnostic Related Group clinical codes was increased.
   • The clinical quality development system was developed to keep the health data of every patient in xml format (Extensible Markup
   Language or xml is a markup language that defines a set of rules for encoding documents in a format that is both human-readable and
   machine-readable).


Institutional restructuring and capacity building:

   • Training was provided to MoH personnel and family physicians in health system performance assessment, organization of
   stakeholder meetings, research techniques in healthcare services, basic cancer registry, early cancer diagnosis and screening,
   mammography techniques, and communication skills.
   • A cancer registry system was expanded from 14 provinces to all 81 provinces nationwide.
   • The Project Management Support and Public-Private Partnership Units were staffed under the General Directorate of Health
   Investments (GDHI).
   • The institutional capacity of the Department of Public-Private Partnership was strengthened to support the ongoing city hospitals
   investment program.
   • In-house capacity in legal, financial, operational, and structural aspects of contract management was developed within GDHI.
   • The accounting systems of Provincial Health Directorates were aligned with international accounting standards.


Improving health information systems:

   • Consultancy services were provided, and MoH staff trained, on various aspects of health management information systems.
   • The electronic health record system was made fully in line with the general data privacy and security as well as privacy of personal
   health records.
   • A drug tracking system was put in place to support the efforts on rational drug use.
   • A National Health Data Dictionary was developed and updated to introduce national and international standards for the collection,
   storage and analysis of data.
   • Telemedicine and tele-radiology implementation systems were put in place.Establishing


Establishing a National Public Health Agency:

   • Technical assistance, goods and training were financed to enable the conversion of the Refik Saydam Hygiene Center Presidency
   into the National Public Health Agency, responsible for all key public health functions for Turkey including: disease surveillance,
   outbreak management, development of policies and plans related to public health, and public health regulation.
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      Proj. in Support of Restruc. of Health (P102172)




Sharing Turkey’s experience:


   • Three international conferences on health reform were financed to evaluate 10 years of Turkey’s Health Transformation Program,
   implementation of the Islamic Cooperation Strategic Health Action Plan, and a meeting of the Turkey-Germany Health Symposium.


Managing the regulation of pharmaceutical products and medical devices:

   • There were no outputs under this heading since disbursements were discontinued following an internal reorganization of the Health
   Ministry.


Outcomes

   • The reorganization of the Ministry of Health to enable it to focus on policy formulation, regulation and monitoring was completed.
   Actions supported by the project followed the approval of the Decree Law on the Organization and Duties of the Ministry of Health and
   Its Affiliates on November 3, 2011. However, no evidence is presented of any change in the Ministry’s actual activities.
   • The expansion of the Family Medicine model has not had the results that were hoped for. The number of per capita annual visits to
   family physicians increased from 2.00 in 2009 (the baseline year) to 2.76 in 2014, compared to a target of 4.00. The share of family
   medicine visits as a percentage of total medical visits actually declined from 35% to 33.5% between 2009 and 2014 (the target was
   40%). There are four main reasons for this. First, human resources are insufficient. The ICR (page 16) reports that there has been no
   significant increase in the number of family physicians in recent years, thereby increasing the workload of those in practice. According to
   WHO, Turkey has 54 general practitioners per 10,000 population, compared to 75 in Spain, 66 in Germany, and 160 in France. The high
   volume of patients reduces the time the physician can devote to each one, thereby decreasing patient satisfaction as well as the quality
   of diagnosis and treatment. Second, almost half the population with social insurance, and two thirds of those without, prefer to seek care
   in public hospitals rather than with family physicians. They feel that they receive a higher level of service and make lower co-payments
   than with the general practitioner. Waiting times tend to be lower and in some areas of the country access to hospitals is easier than
   finding a suitable family physician. Third, partly because of the high workload of general practitioners, the formal, mandatory referral
   system, which was piloted in the early stages of the reform program, has not been implemented. Fourth, there is a lack of public
   awareness that the family medical practice should be the place to go for prescriptions and referrals to specialists.
   • Client satisfaction with health services in Turkey has declined rather than increased since 2011. Major sources of discontent include
   co-payments, expensive medicines and high laboratory fees, long waiting times, and insufficient numbers of qualified medical personnel.
   • Broader health outcomes have improved in Turkey. Maternal mortality rates have fallen by 70% since 1990 and infant mortality by
   40% between 2009 and 2013. Ante-natal care has increased in scope and geographical coverage, as has immunization. There is also
   less regional inequity in access to health services. However, as the ICR (page 17) points out, the main driver of these enhancements
   has been increased health expenditures. Public and private spending on health care rose from 4.8% of GDP in 1990 to 6.1% in 2008,
   before falling back to about 5.3% in more recent years.




Rating
Modest




Revised Objective
This objective was not revised.

Revised Rationale
This objective remained the same and outputs and outcomes are described above.
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            Proj. in Support of Restruc. of Health (P102172)



    Revised Rating
    Modest

PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     Increase the effectiveness of the Social Security Institution (SSI) in formulating and implementing reforms in provider payments and health
     systems performance.

    Rationale
    The only activity related to this sub-objective that was implemented consisted of a few training sessions. As the ICR (page 9) reports, “The
    SSI had informed the Bank team of its decision in early 2011 to cancel the undisbursed portion of the loan under Component C (Capacity
    Building of the Social Security Institution) but the new SSI management decided not to cancel the unused loan proceeds until late 2011. As
    the SSI could not get an agreement with the MoH on the activities to be implemented under the project, the remaining funds under
    Component C could be cancelled only in 2013.” As there were few outputs and no outcomes, the efficacy of this sub-objective is rated
    negligible.




    Rating
    Negligible




    Revised Objective
    The objective was dropped.

    Revised Rationale
    Level 1 project restructuring that took place in January 2014 removed the SSI from the original objective.




    Revised Rating
    Not Rated/Not Applicable

PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 3

    Objective
     Piloting output-based financing for non-communicable disease (NCD) prevention and control.

    Rationale

    Outputs

        • Control programs were developed for chronic pulmonary disease, cardiovascular disease, and kidney disease.
        • A chronic diseases and risk factors study and a child obesity surveillance study were conducted.
        • National physical activity guidelines were developed, healthy diet and obesity counseling units were established within community
        health centers, national physical activity guidelines were developed, and outreach materials were developed and disseminated on
        obesity, diabetes, and physical exercise.
        • A European Action Salt Network meeting was organized to increase awareness on reducing salt consumption.
        • School canteen regulations (for healthy food consumption in primary and secondary schools) were issued.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         Proj. in Support of Restruc. of Health (P102172)



    • Training of trainer activities were organized to improve the capacity of health care personnel on disease management for diabetes.
    • A vital registration system (on deaths) was established.


 Outcomes
 The output-based financing pilot for NCD prevention and control was dropped, apparently because the Government was to implement a
 nationwide scheme. However, there is little discussion or evidence in the ICR related to this national roll-out. Little evidence is presented on
 trends in NCD prevention and control. There is some indication of a small decline of between one and two percent in smoking prevalence
 during the period 2008-2012. No data is shown on other indicators such as high blood pressure or obesity.




 Rating
 Modest




 Revised Objective
 The objective was dropped.

 Revised Rationale
 The revision at the Level 1 restructuring consisted of dropping the activities related to the output-based financing pilot for NCD prevention
 and control.




 Revised Rating
 Not Rated/Not Applicable




5. Efficiency

 The project documents present no estimates of the project’s economic rate of return, cost effectiveness or other quantitative indications of
 value for money. Annex 3 uses the “Musgrove framework” to analyze the Health Transition Project, which was the first phase of the APL. The
 analysis, which is carried out from a public finance angle, is more geared towards efficacy than efficiency.
 There were significant operational and administrative inefficiencies reflected in a delay of 2.2 years in the closing date. The project
 restructuring to change the development objectives and intermediate outcome indicators took almost two years to complete due to changing
 decisions of the implementing agencies on major issues. Disbursement was slow in large part because of changes in the Ministry of Health’s
 management and to its reorganization. Implementation capacity at the Project Management and Support Unit was weakened due to turnover
 of key staff causing challenges especially in the areas of project management, financial management and procurement. Necessary legal
 changes were approved only in November 2011 (a delay of almost two years).




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?              Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                             0
 Appraisal                                                                 0
                                                                                                             Not Applicable
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         Proj. in Support of Restruc. of Health (P102172)



                                                                                                              0
 ICR Estimate                                                              0
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Under the original objectives, relevance of objectives is rated substantial and relevance of design is rated modest. The efficacy of two of the three
sub-objectives – to increase the effectiveness of the Ministry of Health in formulating and implementing reforms, and piloting output-based
financing for NCD prevention and control – are rated modest. There was an extensive number of outputs with regard to the Health Ministry
reforms, but not all outcome targets were reached. Although the project supported some actions to enhance NCD control and prevention, the
pilot output-based financing was not implemented. The efficacy of the third sub-objective -- to increase the effectiveness of the SSI in formulating
and implementing reforms – is rated negligible since there were few outputs and no outcomes. With efficiency rated modest for both original and
revised objectives, the outcome for the original objectives is assessed as moderately unsatisfactory. The revised objective was identical to the
first original sub-objective -- to increase the effectiveness of the Ministry of Health in formulating and implementing reforms. Efficacy is therefore
rated modest as is relevance of design. However, relevance of objectives is also rated modest since the dropping of the SSI and NCD related
activities reduced the project’s relevance to the Bank Group’s country strategy. Outcome under the revised objective is therefore rated
unsatisfactory.
Given that almost 70% of the final disbursed amount had been disbursed at the time of the Level 1 restructuring, overall outcome on a weighted
basis is assessed as moderately unsatisfactory.



a.     Outcome Rating
       Moderately Unsatisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Key reforms supported by the project were sustained and confirmed in the relevant legal framework and strategies (e.g. 10th Development Plan
and MoH Strategic Plan), and are, therefore, unlikely to be reversed.
The project mainly funded capacity building, training and institutional strengthening within the MoH and closely involved stakeholders such as
family physicians. Since the MoH staff and family physicians are direct beneficiaries of the capacity building efforts, medium to long term effects
are considered sustainable (ICR P. 20).
The primary care/family medicine service delivery model has been definitively adopted and the intention is to implement it nation-wide.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The project benefited from extensive background work and analysis, a sustained engagement and support to Turkey’s health system reform,
     and a clear rationale for Bank’s involvement. The project focused on improving the coverage and accessibility of health services in favor of the
     poor population and emphasizing the health and well-being of women and their children. However, there was a certain degree of disconnect
     between the development objectives (PDO), components and the activities which became more noticeable after the Level 1 restructuring and
     the elimination of some of the outcome targets. In general, while the primary development objective was strengthening the stewardship
     function of the MOH, but components, activities and indicators were focused on service delivery). Thus, many of the activities envisaged
     within the scope of the project were only indirectly linked to the expected outcomes of the results framework, especially after restructuring.
     Though data collection instruments were selected carefully, and responsible units for data collection were defined prudently, the M&E design
     had some shortcomings during the preparatory phases. Risk assessment and risk mitigation plans were sound overall, with the exception of
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       Proj. in Support of Restruc. of Health (P102172)



   the legal risks related to Component B. These risks were significant and in fact materialized -- necessary legal changes were only approved in
   November 2011 after a delay of almost two years (ICR page 21).



   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   The Bank teams engaged with the MoH and SSI on a wide variety of health and social security policy and technical issues at all stages of the
   Project, and provided technical support. Three Bank staff assumed Task Team Leadership responsibilities during Project implementation with
   handover missions. Though the supervision activities were performed regularly, and aide-memoires and supervision reports were prepared
   periodically, the Bank teams could not effectively rate the performance of implementing units. Although the Bank teams provided timely and
   precise support to the implementing units in an environment where the decision making processes of the MoH and SSI were slowed down due
   to organizational restructuring and frequent changes in managerial levels, the Bank teams did not note the badly performing PDO indicators
   and did not make timely changes on the development outcome ratings. This was critical as the restructuring failed to adjust the results
   framework to make it align more closely with project activities (ICR page 22).



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The Government provided a strong enabling environment, especially politically, as several important pieces of legislation were passed such
   as the MoH Restructuring Decree Law, and relevant regulations for the establishment of affiliated institutions of the MoH (including the
   Public HeaIth Institutions, and Public Hospital Instituions). The performance of the Treasury (Borrower) and the Ministry of Development
   (MoD) – in charge of the development plans and annual programs - were notable in providing timely support and guidance to the project
   and overall program management. However, the planned high level Inter-Agency Steering Committee (IASC) with representatives of the
   Treasury, MoD, MoH and SSI to provide inter-agency coordination, oversight and policy guidance for overall implementation of the project,
   was never functional (ICR pages 22-23).



   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   MoH’s commitment to the health reform and ownership of the project remained high throughout, even though there were shoprtcomings
   related to its reorganization, the restructuring of the Project, and the changes in upper management – including the Minister. The SSI has
   also continued strengthening its institutional capacity. However, due to changing decisions of the implementing agencies on major issues,
   the project restructuring process took almost two years. Additionally, the delays in decision making resulted in less than full disbursement
   of the loan proceeds. While the role of the Bank in sharing knowledge and policy advice was generally recognized in some areas, the
   implementing agencies could not establish a direct link between the reforms and the project.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       Proj. in Support of Restruc. of Health (P102172)



    Moderately Unsatisfactory




10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The PAD included a M&E framework comprising six PDO indicators and ten Intermediate Objective Indicators (IOIs). However, baseline data
   were not available for three outcome indicators and three intermediate outcome indicators.
   While original PDO indicators and intermediate indicators captured the essence of the two PDOs, their use was limited by the lack of baseline.
   The outcome indicator linked to component A (on patient satisfaction) and those linked to components B and C (on selected NCD prevalence,
   coverage, behavior change and strategic purchasing) were considered appropriate in measuring critical areas of health system performance. A
   key issue with the M&E design highlighted in the ICR (see p. 10) was that the indicators were selected on the basis of their predictive validity to
   gauge the implementation of the overall reform program, rather than of the activities under the project.




b. M&E Implementation
   The ICR (see p. 10-11) shows that the majority of the indicators were tracked regularly for the purpose of the supervision reports. However,
   there were challenges in data collection and consistency:
   • Data collection for intermediate outcome indicators related to Component B was contingent upon the actual start of the output-based
   financing pilot. However, the pilot did not materialize and, therefore, the necessary data collection did not take place.
   • Different data sources for some of the intermediate outcome indicators were used after the MoH reorganization, which led to data
   inconsistencies as noted in supervision reports (e.g. data on patient satisfaction varied from 89 percent (in September 2012 and February
   2013 Implementation Status Reports) to 73 percent (in September 2013 Implementation Status Report).
   • New reporting methodologies were used by the MoH after its reorganization. For instance, data on annual visits to family physicians were
   collected from the MoH statistics yearbook starting in December 2014, as recorded by supervision reports.
   • Timely monitoring of some indicators was adversely affected by the transfer of the Turkish Institute for Health (TUSAK) to the General
   Directorate of Health Research (GDHR) as part of the MoH reorganization of 2011.
   • As the downturn in the development outcome indicators after 2013 was not effectively monitored, corrective action could not be realized
   until the last stages of project implementation.
   The ICR (p. 11) also noted that the development objectives and intermediate outcome indicators were revised in March 2013 and January
   2014. However, it appears that the restructuring papers did not provide enough clarity about the revisions of the M&E framework including
   information on reporting frequency, data sources and responsible units and justification for revision, cancellation, progress to date and
   likelihood of achievement. The restructuring mainly focused on addressing changes related to the outcome indicators that were linked with the
   dropped or discontinued components. For the remaining component (Component A), the restructuring did not solve the disconnect between
   the project activities and their effect on the PDO indicators.




c. M&E Utilization
   The ICR (page 11) makes the following observations with regards to M&E utilization:
   • Findings of surveys and studies conducted by MoH implementing units on NCDs were used for strategy development. Survey results
   proved to be important in defining priorities for adopting new strategies and health care programs and developing prevention and promotion
   programs.
   • The involvement of the Project Management and Support Unit in M&E activities was limited to monitoring intermediate outcome indicators.
   • Many of the intermediate outcome indicators reflected a specific action being accomplished and were, in effect, process indicators. Hence,
   these indicators had little value for decision making or resource allocation.
   • Indicators which would have had an impact on decision making and resource allocation were dropped due to the cancellation of
   components B and C. These indicators could have measured results on critical interventions, such as coverage, behavioral change, and
   intermediate health outcomes.
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                           Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             Proj. in Support of Restruc. of Health (P102172)




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   During the preparation phase, no safeguard policy was triggered as project activities were going to be implemented within the physical
   footprint for all types of construction – including minor civil works. The project was therefore classified as Category C for purposes of
   environmental assessment. The restructurings had no implications for environmental or social safeguard policies. Since safeguards were
   not triggered, there was no environmental or social assessment prepared for the project and safeguard-related implementation support
   visits were not needed during implementation (ICR pages 11-12).




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management. The project had initially two implementing entities (the MoH and SSI). MoH maintained satisfactory financial
   management arrangements throughout implementation. SSI maintained satisfactory arrangements until Component C was cancelled (ICR page
   12). The ICR contains no mention of external or internal auditing.
   Procurement was rated moderately satisfactory over the life of the project to reflect the weak capacity of the implementing agency in this area,
   especially around the time of the Level 1 restructuring (January 2014). The Bank worked closely with the MoH to address this aspect, through
   focused implementation support and capacity building efforts in the area of procurement. There were no reported instances of misprocurement.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   None reported.




d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                               Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                               Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Moderately Unsatisfactory         Moderately Unsatisfactory          ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                            Modest                             ---
Bank Performance                          Moderately Unsatisfactory         Moderately Unsatisfactory          ---
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Unsatisfactory         Moderately Unsatisfactory          ---
Quality of ICR                                                              Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         Proj. in Support of Restruc. of Health (P102172)



13. Lessons

The following lessons were identified (ICR pages 23-24):

     • If specific indicators in the results framework clearly track advances toward achievement of the PDOs, monitoring of expected development
     outcomes becomes much easier.
     • International technical assistance (TA) can be effective in sustaining health system reforms and improvements. Examples of particular high
     valued TA provided by this project are: (i) TA and training to enhance quality of care at hospital and primary health care settings; (ii) TA to
     estimate the impact of the health sector reform efforts; and (iii) TA to develop capacity at the General Directorate for Health Investments to
     manage Public and Private Partnership (PPP) investments (e.g. legal, financial and operational aspects of PPP).
     • In general, proper risk identification, monitoring and a flexible design allows the mitigation of risks. However, the pilot contemplated under
     Component B suffered from uncertainty surrounding the legal framework that was not sufficiently considered at appraisal among the possible
     scenarios.
     • Retaining critical human resources (e.g. civil servants and the consultants) within the MoH Project Management Unit to minimize or avoid
     delays and challenges in project implementation is important, but so are the development of handover arrangements and training to ensure a
     smooth transition. In the long term, these are also important for institutional memory. Frequent loss and high turnover of human capacity
     caused many delays and created challenges throughout the Project, especially in the areas of project management, financial management,
     and procurement.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR provides adequate detail on objectives, outputs and outcomes. The document is analytical and arrives at conclusions that are largely
supported by evidence, with clear explanations for the ratings. Overall, the ICR is both internally consistent and consistent with OPCS
guidelines. There is no discussion of external or internal auditing of project accounts.




a.    Quality of ICR Rating
      Substantial
