Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15387-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
CHONGQING INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL
AND REFORM PROJECT
May 15, 1996
Environment and Municipal Development Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 31, 1996)
Currency Name = Renminbi
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00 = I00 fen
Y 1.00 =$0.11
$1.00 =Y8.32
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I millimeter (mm) = 0.039 inches
I meter (m) = 3.28 feet
I square meter (m2) = 310.76 square feet
I cubic meter (m3) = 35.3 cubic feet
I kilometer (kIm) = 0.62 miles
I hectare (ha) = 10,000 square meters = 15 mu
I kilogram (kg) = 2.204 pounds
1 megawatt (MW) = 1,000,000 watts
ACRONYMS
ABC      -   Agricultural Bank of China
CAF      -   Continuing Advisory Facility
CEPB     -   Chongqing Environmental Protection Bureau
CFB      -   Chongqing Finance Bureau
CISDI    -   Chongqing Iron and Steel Design Institute
CISCG    -   Chongqing Iron and Steel Company (Group) Limited
CLB      -   Chongqing Labor Bureau
CMB      -   China Merchants Bank
CM       -   Chongqing Municipality
CSSC     -   Chongqing Special Steel Company (Group) Limited
EAF      -   Electric Arc Furnace
EAU      -   Environmental Audit Unit
EBBC    -   Everbright Bank of China
EIA      -   Environmental Impact Assessment
EPB      -   Environmental Protection Bureau
ERR      -   Economic Rate of Return



FRR      -   Financial Rate of Return
GDP      -   Gross Domestic Product
GEF      -   Global Environmental Facility
GOC      -   Goverinment of China
GVIO    -   Gross Value of Industrial Output
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
ICBC     -   Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
JGF      -   Japanese Grant Facility
JV       -   Joint Venture
LIB      -   Limited International Bidding
l LCs    -   Limited Liability Companies
LLSCs   -   Limited Liability Shareholding Companies
LOC      -   Line of Credit
LSE      -   Labor Service Enterprise
MOF      -   Ministry of Finance
Mt       -   Million Tons
NEPA    -   National Environmental Protection Agency
NO,      -   Nitrogen Oxide
NSOE    -   Nonstate-Owned Enterprise
NSRAF   -   Nonstate Enterprise Restructuring Advisory Facility
PBC      -   People's Bank of China
PFI      -   Participating Financial Institution
PIP      -   Project Implementation Plan
PLG      -   Project Leading Group
PMO      -   Project Management Office
PRC      -   People's Republic of China
RAF      -   Restructuring Advisory Facility
RAP      -   Resettlement Action Plan
SAMB    -   State Asset Management Bureau
SAOC    -   State Asset Operating Company
SLC      -   Single Currency Loan
SOEs    -   State-Owned Enterprises
SO2      -   Sulfur Dioxide
SPEC     -   State Environmental Protection Commission
TA       -   Technical Assistance
TOR      -   Terms of Reference
TSP      -   Total Suspended Particulates
TVEs    -   Township and Village Enterprises
Ul       -   Unemployment Insurance
ZICC     -   Zhongxing Industrial and Commerce Company



I



- 1 -
CHINA
CHONGQING INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL
AND REFORM PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                The People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency:    Chongqing Municipal Project Management Office
Beneficiaries:           Chongqing  Municipality, Chongqing  Iron  and  Steel
Company (Group) Limited, Chongqing Special Steel
Company (Group) Limited, other industrial enterprises,
Chongqing Environmental Protection Bureau, Chongqing
Labor Bureau, Chongqing State Asset Management Bureau
Poverty:                 Not applicable
Amount:                  $170 Million
Terms:                   20 years including 5 years of grace, at the standard interest
rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans
Commitment Fee:          0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:         From Chongqing Municipality to the participating financial
intermediaries: 20 years, including 5 years of grace at the
standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single
currency loans, and a commitment charge of 0.75 percent
From Chongqing Municipality to the steel companies: 12
years including 5 years of grace at the standard interest rate
for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans, plus a
spread of 1.2 percent per year and a commitment charge of
0.75 percent. The companies would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
From the participating financial intermediaries to the
industrial enterprises: up to 12 years including up to 5
years of grace at the standard interest rate for LIBOR-based
US dollar single currency loans, plus a spread of not less
than 2.0 percent per year and a commitment charge of 0.75
percent. The enterprises would bear the foreign exchange
risk.



- 11 -
Financing Plan:         See Table 4.2
Economic Rate of Return: Industrial Relocation Component:
Chongqing Special Steel Company (Group) Limited: 24
percent
Chongqing Iron and Steel Company (Group) Limited: 20
percent
Map:                    IBRD 27875
Project ID Number:      CN-PE-3646



- 111 -
CONTENTS
1. CHINA: INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND ENTERPRISE
REFORM .............................................................I1
A. Introduction ..............................................................1
B. China's System  for Environmental Protection ....................................................2
C. Chinese Industrial Structure and Performance ....................................................3
D. China's Reform of Industrial SOEs                                                 ................................4
E. The Bank's Strategy ..................................6
F. Rationale For Bank Activity in Chongqing ..................................8
2. CHONGQING'S ECONOMY AND PROGRAMS FOR INDUSTRIAL
POLLUTION CONTROL AND ENTERPRISE REFORM .........................................9
A. Chongqing's Economy ..............................................................9
B. Chongqing's Program  for Industrial Pollution Control .................................... 11
C. Enterprise Reform  Program  .............................................................                   15
3. THE PROJECT .............................................................                                             18
A. Project Objectives .............................................................                            18
B. Project Performance Indicators .............................................................                18
C. Project Description .............................................................                           19
D. Project Organization and Management ............................................................. 29
4. THE LOAN, PROJECT COST, FINANCING PLAN, PROCUREMENT,
AND DISBURSEMENT .............................................................                                           31
A. Main Features of the Loan .............................................................                    31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited China in
November/December 1995. The report was prepared by: N. Hughes (Senior Operations
Officer and Task Manager), H. Broadman (Senior Economist), B. Baratz (Principal
Environmental Engineer), J. Saba (Principal Private Sector Development Specialist),
R. Heath (Principal Chemical Engineer), R. Roulier (Principal Banking Specialist), P. de
Sa (Financial Analyst), ), Y. Zhang (Operations Officer), D. Elsen (Counsel), M. Meunier
(Consultant/Steel Engineer), R. Hall (Consultant/Labor Economist), and S. Ferguson
(Consultant/Resettlement). The peer reviewers are: P. Harrold (Policy Reform), Y. Ziv
(Environment) and F. Montes-Negret (Financial Intermediation). The Division Chief is
Katherine Sierra and the Department Director is Nicholas C. Hope.



- iv -
B. Project Cost ..................................................                                32
C. Financing Plan ..................................................                              33
D. Procurement .................................................                                  33
E. Disbursement .................................................                                  36
F. Monitoring and Reporting ..................................................                     37
G. Accounting and Auditing ..................................................                     37
5. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION  AND  RISKS .......................................................                 38
A. Financial and Economic Benefits of the Project ............................................... 38
B. Financial Analysis of the Industrial Relocation Component ............................. 38
C. Economic Benefits of the Industrial Relocation Component ............................ 43
D. Environmental Aspects of the Industrial Relocation Component ..................... 45
E. Major Project Risks ........................................................                   48
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................................... 50
ANNEXES
Annex 2.1:  Chongqing's Economic Structure .55
Annex 3.1:  Economic Policy Statement of Chongqing Municipality .61
Annex 3.2:        Chongqing Municipality Economic Policy Reform
Agenda and Action Plan .65
Annex 3.3:    Environmental Protection in Chongqing and the Chongqing
Industrial Pollution Control and Reform Project .73
Annex 3.4:    Terms of Reference: Hazardous Waste Inventory and Hazardous
Waste Data Management System .93
Annex 3.5:    Terms of Reference: Consultant Services for a Hazardous Waste
Site Selection Study for Chongqing Municipality .97
Annex 3.6:  Regulatory Reform Action Plan .101
Annex 3.7:    Terms of Reference: Preparation of an Industrial Pollution
Control Plan .102
Annex 3.8:    Terns of Reference: Operationalizing an Environmental Audit
Unit in the Chongqing Environmental Protection Bureau .106
Annex 3.9:  Chongqing Special Steel Company (Group) Limited .115
Annex 3.10:   Resettlement Associated with the CSSC Relocation ............................... 123
Annex 3.11:  Zhongxing Industry and Commerce Company, Subsidiary of
Chongqing Iron And Steel Company (Group) Limited ........................... 140
Annex 3.12:   Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) .......................................................  147
Annex 3.13:   China Merchants Bank (CMB) .......................................................            165
Annex 3.14:   Everbright Bank of China (EBBC) .......................................................  175
Annex 3.15:   Redeploying Surplus Labor .......................................................           192
Annex 3.16:   Technical Assistance for a State Asset Operating Company ................... 202



- v -
Annex 3.17:  Project Implementation Plan ...................................     206
Annex 4.1:   Schedule of Disbursements ...................................       213
Annex 4.2:   Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities ...................................     214
Annex 4.3:   Selected Documents Available in the Project File ................................... 215
TABLES IN TEXT
Table 2.1: China's and Chongqing's Economic Structure.                             9
Table 2.2: China's and Chongqing's Labor Structure                .0
Table 3.1: Institutional Performance Indicators                .1 9
Table 3.2: Development Objective Indicators .19
Table 4.1: Summary of Project Costs .32
Table 4.2: Project Financing Plan .33
Table 4.3: Procurement Arrangements .34
Table 5.1: Efficiency Gains, 1993 and 2002 .40
Table 5.2: Financial Rate of Return (FRR)-Sensitivity Analysis .41
Table 5.3: Economic Rate of Return (ERR}-Sensitivity Analysis .44



I



- 1 -
1. CHINA: INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND
ENTERPRISE REFORM
A. INTRODUCTION
1.1   Pollution associated with China's burgeoning economic growth continues to exact
a sizable toll on the Chinese people and on the environment. China's industrial sector
generates significant levels of air, water and solid waste pollution. Despite progress in
establishing institutions and policies to reduce industrial pollution, there remains
considerable scope for improvement, especially in implementation and enforcement.
Effectively integrating environmental protection objectives into economic policies,
particularly those aimed at reform of industrial state-owned enterprises (SOEs), continues
to be a major challenge.
1.2   China's industrial pollution management system  relies on a mixture of
administrative controls and market-based incentives. These are intended to lead to the
abatement of pollution produced by existing facilities and to the adoption of cleaner
technologies.  Neither the application of administrative controls nor the incentive
structure has been effective, and the current regime of fees and fines is deficient for
enterprises that fail to meet environmental standards; penalties are small and collection
rates are low. Reforms must focus on implementing incentives and disincentives that
make it more cost-effective for firms to stop polluting. Also, regulatory institutions must
be strengthened, especially their monitoring and enforcement capabilities.
1.3  Industrial pollution control and enterprise reform and restructuring are part of the
same process because controlling industrial pollution is integral to transforming Chinese
SOEs into modem corporations. Exacerbating the impact of the weak environmental
regulatory regime is the fact that many major Chinese industrial polluters are SOEs
utilizing obsolete-and polluting-technologies, but lacking autonomy, particularly
adequate control over costs and prices, to pass on the cost of pollution control. They
therefore have no economic incentive to make needed improvements to comply with
environmental standards, and the result is continued pollution of the air, water and land.
The alternative of replacing the obsolete highly polluting technology with efficient
nonpolluting technology is beyond the reach of most SOEs, which do not generate
sufficient retained earnings or have access to sufficient bank financing to support such
transformation. In addition, unless this is accompanied by the introduction of modem
corporate governance structures in SOEs, including their divestiture of the social service
functions they now perform (e.g., provision of housing, education, health care and
pensions, among others), the polluting state industries will remain inefficient and unable
to afford improved, environmentally beneficial technology. The successful transition of
the Chinese economy from a command system to a "socialist market economy" will



depend largely on how industrial SOEs can respond to market incentives, including those
related to pollution abatement. China cannot afford to slacken the pace of SOE reform
and it must deal with industrial pollution.
B. CHINA'S SYSTEM FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
1.4   The legal basis for environmental protection is established under the Chinese
Constitution of 1982. Below the Constitution are basic and specific laws, promulgated
by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress. The Environmental
Protection Law (EPL) (1989) is a basic law and sets forth four guiding principles:
(a)environmental protection must be integrated and coordinated with economic
development; (b) pollution prevention should receive as much emphasis as pollution
control; (c) polluters should pay for environmental degradation ("polluter pays"
principle); and (d) better environmental quality can be achieved through more effective
environmental management. The EPL provides for active enforcement by government
agencies, prohibits locating new industrial plants near populated and protected areas, and
specifies that existing industries may be relocated or closed to comply with the
environmental law. Twelve specific laws, e.g., the Water Pollution Prevention and
Control Law, the Air Pollution Prevention and Control Law (both recently revised), and
the Solid and Hazardous Waste Law govern certain subjects that are addressed more
generally by the EPL.
1.5   Underpinning these statutes are more technical and specific regulations. They are
issued at the state, provincial, regional and municipal levels (for municipalities having
province status). The regulations governing air and water pollution will have to be
revised in accordance with the new laws (regulations governing disposal of solid and
hazardous waste have yet to be drafted). Supplementary edicts are promulgated as
required by local Environmental Protection Bureaus (EPBs) for their own jurisdictions.
1.6   The EPL authorizes the National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA) to
establish national ambient quality and source discharge standards.  Provincial and
municipal governments can set discharge standards if they are more stringent, or if a
national standard does not exist. Emissions standards are generally uniform for a given
pollutant across industries, but not necessarily across sectors (e.g., thermal power plants
have lower air pollution standards than industrial plants).
1.7   The State Environmental Protection Commission (SEPC), which includes the
heads of all relevant ministries and agencies, convenes quarterly to provide policy
direction and resolve interagency disputes. SEPC relies heavily on NEPA, which
functions as its secretariat. NEPA became an independent agency in 1988, reporting to
both the State Council and SEPC. NEPA is responsible for all aspects of environmental
policy and environmental management. NEPA also supervises subnational EPBs,
established in all provinces and municipalities and in most counties, under local
environmental policy commissions.  Subnational EPBs bear the main burden of
enforcement.



- 3 -
1.8   China's approach to regulating industrial pollution has focused on four
instruments:  (a) environmental impact assessments (EIAs) before approving new
projects; (b) the "three synchronization" licensing strategy, which requires project
designs to include pollution control abatement measures in the actual investment and
proper operation of abatement equipment; (c) pollution levy fees charged against air
emissions and wastewater streams that have concentrations of pollutants above permitted
levels; and most recently, (d) wastewater discharge permits based on volume (mass)
emitted.
1.9   The most comprehensive official statement of China's industrial pollution control
strategy is the "Environmental Action Plan: 1991-2000." The Action Plan focuses on the
metallurgical and chemical industries, China's two most polluting industries, and sets
forth the following objectives: (a) to promote cleaner production technology and more
efficient use of energy and other inputs; (b) to improve recovery and recycle the "three
wastes" (flue gas, industrial wastewater and solid waste); (c) to improve control over
industrial point source pollution; (d) to implement "the polluter pays" principle, by
making enterprises responsible for treatment and removal of pollution; and (e) to pursue
more rational industrial development in accordance with urban master planning.
1.10  China's major obstacle to controlling industrial pollution is its weak regulatory
system, which suffers from: (a) a lack of systematic and comprehensive planning;
(b) inadequate enforcement of environmental regulations; (c) inadequate funding of
regulatory agencies; and (d) conflicts between economic development and environmental
protection. While most municipalities have pollution control plans, they are often too
general, incomplete, and not time-bound. The problems inherent in enforcement are
typified by the pollution levy system. Fees are typically set considerably below the
marginal cost of effluent treatment, which encourages enterprises to pay the fee rather
than operate or invest in treatment facilities or cleaner production technologies. Also, by
setting fees on a concentration basis, surface water could fail to meet standards even
though all enterprises in a watershed individually meet standards.  Conversely, if
assimilative capacity is high and enterprises are few, the concentration standard could
force average compliance costs far above the discharge damage.
1.11  The problem of agency funding is linked to the pollution levy issue. Because
EPBs are allowed to retain 20 percent of the fees collected, they have become dependent
on pollution levies as revenue sources to cover operating costs. Conflicts between
economic growth objectives and environmental protection can be resolved through better
planning and management. However, because local governments usually are the effective
owners of SOEs within their boundaries, pressures to relax regulations or fee collection
inevitably arise.
C. CHINESE INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURE AND PERFORMANCE
1.12  There are about 10 million industrial enterprises in China. Of these, 102,200 are
SOEs; 1.9 million are "collectively owned enterprises" (COEs)-rural, township and



- 4 -
village enterprises (TVEs) and urban collectives; 8.0 million are family or individually
owned "private businesses" with no more than seven employees; and 44,500 are "other"
enterprises, which include private firms employing more than seven persons, foreign-
owned and foreign-domestic joint ventures. In 1978, at the beginning of reform, the
share of the gross value of industrial output (GVIO) accounted for by SOEs was 78
percent and for COEs it was 22 percent. Currently, SOEs account for 34 percent of
GVIO; COEs account for 40 percent; "private businesses" account for about 12 percent;
and "other" firms account for 14 percent.
1.13  Because of significant differences between SOEs and their nonstate counterparts
in terms of location, ownership forn, property rights regime, functional structure and the
policy environment that govems their conduct and performance, nonstate-owned
enterprises (NSOEs) operate more akin to competitive enterprises found in mature market
economies. Functionally, SOEs not only carry out productive operations, but also are
burdened with the obligation to provide an array of social services, including housing,
education, health care, pensions, food services, fuel and retail outlets. By contrast, COEs,
for example have no obligation to provide social services (although many choose to do so
and charge user fees to workers). As a result, these firms can focus more squarely on
commercial objectives. Unlike SOEs, which historically have had access to on-budget
subsidies from government agencies and off-budget subsidized credits from (the state-
owned) banks, COEs have had to operate in an environment free of direct fiscal and
quasi-fiscal government subsidies. Although the nonstate sector has been the major
source of employment growth since the opening up of the economy, SOE employment is
still growing, and about 70 percent of all urban Chinese industrial workers-about 45
million persons-are employed in SOEs. SOEs also provide about 65 percent of national
income tax revenues, account for about 72 percent of industrial net fixed assets, and
utilize 70 percent of all bank credit.
1.14  Despite a series of reform initiatives (see below), many industrial SOEs continue
to perform poorly. Although total factor productivity for SOEs is rising, its growth is
only about one-third to one-half the corresponding rate for nonstate enterprises. SOE
losses have been declining, but are still sizable; about 40 percent of all SOEs registered
losses in 1994. Explicit and implicit subsidies to SOEs have also been declining in recent
years, from about 6 percent of GDP in 1990 to about 4 percent in 1994; but their
continued existence poses a risk to containing inflationary pressures and macroeconomic
stability.
D. CHINA'S REFORM OF INDUSTRIAL SOES
1.15  The GOC recognizes that to sustain the nation's pace of economic growth,
centrally planned and financed growth must be replaced by decentralized economic
decision-making, competitive market forces and a liberalized external sector. As a result,
reforms have been introduced over the past 18 years in the state industrial sector. The
most salient SOE reform experiments involve adopting the modern corporation as a mode
of organization; granting increased authority to SOE managers to make business



- 5 -
decisions; and include implementing labor contracts as altematives to "lifetime
employment." In addition, the policy framework has been reformed so that prices and
production have been largely decontrolled, and trade and foreign investment increasingly
liberalized. The official economic philosophy changed from a "planned economy on the
basis of socialist public ownership" to a "socialist market economy" in October 1992. In
November 1993, the Third Plenary Session of the Fourteenth Party Congress issued the
Decision on Issues Concerning the Establishment of a Socialist Market Economic
Structure. This Decision outlines a 50-point agenda for economic reform to be attained
by the end of the century, including (a) creating a "modern enterprise system"; (b)
encouraging the development of diversified forms of enterprise ownership, especially the
"privately owned, individually owned and foreign-invested" sectors; and (c) providing for
enterprises of all types to be able to compete on "equal terms." The Decision is the most
ambitious plan for China's SOE reform, but it is only a statement of principles.
Establishing a program to implement the Decision is the challenge now being undertaken
by the Government.
1.16  The "10,000-1000-100-10" enterprise reform experiment, announced in January
1994, is the latest effort in this regard. This reform provides for: 10,000 large and
medium SOEs to adopt by 1996 new accounting standards; 1,000 large SOEs to adopt by
1997 new state asset administration regulations; 100 large and medium-size SOEs to be
fully "corporatized" by 1996 as limited liability (LLCs) or limited liability shareholding
companies (LLSCs) under the Company Law; and 18 municipalities (expanded from the
original 10) to undergo "comprehensive" enterprise, economic and social policy reform.
1.17  SOE reforms have made real progress to date, but significant challenges remain.
First, restructuring initiatives have not yet appreciably squeezed out economically
wasteful resource use in most SOE operations, let alone raised resource productivity to
technologically feasible levels. Second, SOE management lacks sufficient autonomy and
operates according to risk-reward incentive structures that are not based on market
principles. Third, reforms have not fully eliminated distortions in the overall policy
regime (e.g. some price controls and subsidies remain). Fourth, self-sustaining factor
markets for labor, capital and technology have yet to develop, and without these reform
of SOEs is constrained. Finally, the SOE reform program has not adequately stressed the
complementary linkage between achieving economic goals and environmentally
sustainable development. The existing SOE reform program must be modified to:
(a) phase out SOE fiscal and quasi-fiscal subsidies; (b) foster SOE ownership
diversification, management autonomy, recombined corporate assets and competitive exit
and entry; (c) shed redundant labor and enterprise social service obligations and ensure a
government-sponsored "social safety net"; (d) create employment growth conditions,
particularly in high value-added services industries; (e) develop an independent, viable
financial system; and (f) control and reduce industrial pollution.



- 6 -
E. THE BANK'S STRATEGY
1.18  The Bank Group's assistance to China emphasizes environmental protection and
enterprise reform, as articulated in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to
the Board on June 1, 1995, and the Progress Report discussed on March 26, 1996. The
Bank's environmental strategy for the industrial sector brings together these two major
CAS objectives: it seeks an improved environmental regulatory regime and regulatory
enforcement, combined with enterprise reform initiatives. A considerable amount of
Bank sector work underpins and validates this approach. The central statement of Bank
strategy, China: Environmental Strategy Paper (1992), highlights, among other things,
the interrelationships between environmental issues and economic growth and
development, to the extent that "until price and enterprise reforms are more extensively
undertaken, neither pollution fees or fines nor administrative regulations are likely to
carry sufficient force to be systematically applied to encourage the most cost-effective
means to reduce environmental degradation." China: Efficiency and Environmental
Impact of Coal Use (1991) identifies various means of reducing China's serious SO2 and
TSP pollution problem by using coal more efficiently and, in line with the Strategy Paper
and the proposed project, continuing enterprise and labor market reform, enhancing
technology transfer, employing a municipally-based approach to air pollution abatement,
and improving the operating efficiency and technical quality of conventional industrial
boilers. The China. Urban Environmental Service Management Study (1994) indicates
the need for, among other things, increased financial and social incentives to improve
compliance with environmental regulations, better monitoring of environmental
conditions, and introduction of hazardous waste regulation-an area largely ignored in
most Chinese cities. Finally, China: Issues and Options in Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Control (1994) echoes the same central themes, noting, first, the key role of successful
economic reform in pollution control of all types, including control of greenhouse gas
emission levels, and, second, China's need to improve and modify enforcement of its
environmental regulatory system. The CAS also calls for working with the Global
Environmental Facility (GEF) in China to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, preserve
biodiversity and conserve energy, and with the Montreal Protocol Fund to support a
Chinese program for reducing the production of ozone-depleting substances.
1.19  The Bank's industrial sector strategy, as described in the CAS and in the 1995
paper, Meeting the Challenge of Chinese Enterprise Reform, is guided by four principles:
(a) creating autonomous corporate enterprises, with clear lines of governance, fully
transparent modem accounts, and clearly defined management responsibilities;
(b) separating social welfare responsibilities from enterprises; (c) subjecting enterprises to
market discipline by eliminating subsidies and promoting competition (or regulation for
natural monopolies in infrastructure); and (d) promoting ownership diversity to acquire
new technologies, management expertise and financing.
1.20  The proposed project supports the CAS objectives and recommendations of Bank
sector work. It addresses Chongqing's environmental problems through investments in
modern, clean production technologies, buttressed by support for improving



environmental management and enforcement of regulations, as well as restructuring and
commercializing local industries through a slate of reform initiatives. The project would
help eliminate key point sources of industrial pollution, transforrn enterprises into
modem, efficient production units, and ensure that municipal economic reforms are
compatible with environmental quality. The project also furthers GEF objectives to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions by including an S02 reduction program to be supported
under an associated Efficient Industrial Boilers Project, for which GEF financing is being
sought.  The proposed operation would thus contribute to making Chongqing an
environmentally cleaner, more efficient and internationally competitive market
economy-one that would be more attractive to both domestic and foreign investors.
Moreover, achievements and lessons learned from this pilot operation would have a
demonstration effect for other industrial enterprises in Chongqing and in other cities in
China.
1.21 Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Group Operations. A review of Bank
Group industrial projects in China and elsewhere sheds light on lessons that directly
apply to this pilot project. Bank experience in industrial pollution control, as reflected in
by the Bank's Industry and Energy Department report, Industry and Environment:
Patterns in World Bank Lending, emphasizes pollution prevention as well as control,
ambient quality improvement over source reduction, and incentives to comply, and
institutional capability to monitor and enforce standards. The same lessons are indicated
in the China Environmental Strategy Paper and the report on China's urban
environmental services. In ongoing projects developing environmental infrastructure in
eight Chinese cities, success in introducing policy, pricing and institutional reforms is
closely correlated to the municipality's overall commitment to reform, including that of
city services and enterprises. An extended dialogue during preparation of the proposed
project, therefore, sought to mobilize support for the project among a broad range of
stakeholders and to incorporate in the project design a program combining enterprise and
environmental action.
1.22  A  study  by the Bank's Operations Evaluation  Department, Industrial
Restructuring: A Review of World Bank Operations, which covers 46 countries over a
14-year period, concludes that both private and public sector industrial restructuring
results in only limited success when the overall economic environment is not taken into
account. The report also concludes that public sector enterprise restructuring has the best
chance of sustainability in China, due to the Governnent's commitment to reform, as
evidenced by market competition, reduced subsidies, and increased autonomy for SOE
management. Linking sectorally targeted projects that embrace broader policy objectives
with enterprise reform concepts, supported by strong ESW was especially noted in the
report. Experience in China bears this out. The Bank's industrial lending to China in the
1980s was based on studies identifying subsectors with strong growth potential, targeting
major coastal municipalities, and focusing on regional centers of economic growth and
reform. By the early 1990s it was clear that the subsectoral approach was not fully
effective. Sector studies took too long to complete, they were not always relevant to the
Clients' needs and were sometimes rendered irrelevant by economic events. A new



- 8 -
approach was adopted under the Shenyang Industrial Reform Project (Ln. 3788-CHA,
FY95), which placed industrial restructuring within the context of a municipally based
reform strategy. The proposed project is the second in the series to take a municipal
enterprise reform approach, with the major focus on achieving immediate as well as
longer-term environmental benefits. It applies the lessons of the past by incorporating a
clear policy focus, monitorable project objectives, and a well-defined investment
program.
1.23 The proposed pilot project also applies lessons learned from other countries in
transition, e.g., findings in the Bank's Bureaucrats in Business (1995). International
experience demonstrates that effective public enterprise reform requires management
autonomy and accountability, "hard budget constraints." implementing a neutral
regulatory regime, and addressing major externalities, such as industrial pollution. While
public enterprise privatization is a key element in SOE reform in other countries, the goal
of the Chinese government is to achieve SOE reforn by changing incentive structures;
separating government administration from ownership responsibility; and diversifying
enterprise ownership, among other things.
F. RATIONALE FOR BANK ACTIVITY IN CHONGQING
1.24 The Bank and GOC have agreed there should be a shift in emphasis from lending
to relatively developed areas, such as the Coast, South and East regions, to less developed
areas-in particular cities in Central, Southwestern and Northwestern China. Chongqing
has been selected because: (a) it is the largest repository of accumulated capital and skills
in China's Southwest, yet it must cope with serious enterprise productivity and industrial
pollution problems; (b) its municipal government is committed to economic reform,
especially reducing industrial pollution and restructuring SOEs; and (c) it has the central
government's strong support to experiment with economic reforms.
1.25  Chongqing Municipality has requested Bank assistance to support a program to
help reduce industrial pollution and carry out reforms to commercialize and restructure
industrial enterprises, particularly SOEs. The Bank is uniquely positioned to respond to
CM's request. A Bank-financed operation supporting industrial pollution control and
SOE reform would help eliminate key point sources of industrial pollution, provide for
transforming  enterprises  into  modern,  efficient production  units,  strengthen
environmental regulation enforcement and help assure that CM's economic reform
measures are compatible with environmental quality. Thus, the Bank would help
transform Chongqing into an environmentally cleaner, more efficient and internationally
competitive market economy-one that would be more attractive to both domestic and
foreign investors. Moreover, achievements and lessons from this pilot operation would
have a "demonstration effect" for other industrial enterprises in Chongqing and in other
cities in China.



-9-
2. CHONGQING'S ECONOMY AND PROGRAMS FOR
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND ENTERPRISE
REFORM
A. CHONGQING'S ECONOMY
2.1   Economic Structure. Chongqing, the largest city of Sichuan province, with an
area of 23,114 km  and a population of more than 15 million, has traditionally been one
of the most important centers of industry and commerce in Central China. ChongqingIs
diversified natural resource base and skilled work force have supported the development
of the coal, iron, petroleum refining, metallurgical, chemical, petrochemical, and
engineering industries. However, despite its strong historical legacy and rich resource
endowments, Chongqing did not benefit from the 1980s boom as much as many of
China's coastal cities. While Chongqing has been growing at 10.0 percent per year
during 1980-94, today, the urban standard of living in Chongqing is about 10 percent
lower than the average for coastal cities, and its rural living standard is lower than the
national average.
2.2   During 1980-94, the major change in Chongqing's economic structure was the
doubling of the GDP share of the trade and services sector, at the expense of the
agricultural and industrial sectors; this compositional change brought Chongqing in line
with the rest of the country (Table 2.1). Industry remains the dominant sector in
Chongqing, responsible for about 48 percent of the city's GDP, which was Y 54.3 billion
in 1994.
TABLE 2.1: CHINA'S AND CHONGQING'S ECONOMIC STRUCTURE
Share of GDP by Sector (in percent)
Agriculture              Industry           Trade and Services
Year     China   Chongqing       China   Chongqing       China   Chongqing
1980     30.4       28.7         49.0       55.0         20.6      16.3
1994     18.8       20.2         48.5       47.5          32.7     32.3
Source: China Statistical Yearbook (1995); Chongqing Statistical Yearbook (1995).
2.3   As Table 2.2 indicates, the changes in Chongqing's economy shifted the structure
of employment during 1980-94 in ways similar to the country as a whole. Employment
in the agricultural sector decreased, while the share of employment in both industry and



- 10 -
trade and services increased. In 1994, CM had a total work force of 8.5 million, of whom
2.1 (25 percent) were state workers and staff, including 1.5 million in SOEs. Industry
currently employs about 2 million workers. Unemployment in Chongqing in 1994 was
officially reported as 60,000 persons, and the official unemployment rate was 2.76
percent. However, as in other cities, a much higher level of disguised unemployment
prevails through the practice of keeping redundant workers on the payroll in "job
waiting" and other categories.
TABLE 2.2: CHINA'S AND CHONGQING'S LABOR STRUCTURE
Employment (in percent)
Agriculture             Industry           Trade and Services
Year     China   Chongqing       China   Chongqing       China   Chongqing
1980     68.7       67.2         18.3       19.5         13.0      13.3
1994     54.3       53.2         22.7       18.2         23.0      28.6
Source: China Statistical Yearbook (1 995); Chongqing Statistical Yearbook (1995).
2.4   CM's financial sector is comprised of eight banks (with 1,364 branches) and
1.182 nonbanking financial institutions (94 percent of which are rural credit
cooperatives). The Chongqing branch of the People's Bank of China (PBC) supervises
all financial institutions in CM. The banking sector in CM is dominated by the Industrial
and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) and the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC). At
the end of 1994, ICBC held 56 percent of total bank loans and 47 percent of bank
deposits; ABC's corresponding market shares were 18 percent and 19 percent,
respectively. Two new banks, China Merchant Bank and Everbright Bank, are in the
process of establishing branches in Chongqing. In part, the entry of these two new
competitors into CM's banking market is due to the proposed project.
2.5   Chongqing's economy is becoming more competitive. However, the city's state-
owned industrial sector is still inefficient and-without reform-will be an impediment
to future growth. There are 7,519 industrial enterprises in Chongqing, of which 1,301 (17
percent) are SOEs, 5,962 (79 percent) are collectives, including township and village
enterprises, and 256 are "other" enterprises, including joint ventures and private
enterprises. SOEs account for 76 percent of CM's GVIO, whereas the more numerous
collectives account for 19 percent of GVIO and "other" enterprises account for 5 percent.
Of the industrial SOEs, 504 are under CM's budget and 190 are defined as "large and
medium." A more detailed description of key aspects of Chongqing's economic
structure-in particular the system of state asset management, the social security system,
and the financial sector-is contained in Annex 2.1.



- 11 -
B. CHONGQING'S PROGRAM FOR INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL
2.6   Institutional Organization and Regulatory Authority.  The Chongqing
Environmental Protection Bureau (CEPB), which was established in 1974, reports to the
Mayor's Office and to the Sichuan Provincial EPB. The system of EPBs in Chongqing is
organized on three levels: the municipal CEPB, district and county EPBs and subdistrict
and village Environmental Protection Offices. The CEPB is responsible for developing
local environmental programs and regulations, monitoring ambient and point sources of
air, water, and hazardous waste pollution, and enforcing compliance with environmental
regulations. The 9 urban districts and 12 county EPBs are responsible for implementing
CEPB's programs within their jurisdictions, and for providing CEPB their monitoring
results.
2.7   To implement the EPL, the People's Congress of Chongqing Municipality issued
the Chongqing Environmental Protection Ordinance (CEPO) in 1990. It specifies seven
responsibilities of the district and county-level EPBs:
*  Monitor and enforce environmental laws, regulations and standards
*  Develop and implement environmental plans
*  Participate in preparation of economic and social development plans
*  Assist responsible agencies in protecting natural resources
*  Organize environmental research and education
*  Investigate and resolve environmental accidents and disputes
* Receive complaints on activities resulting in environmental damages
Anne3.3  contains a more detailed description of CM's environmental regulatory
framework.
2.8   Industrial Pollution Control Strategy of Chongqing Municipality. Over the
last 10 years, CM's environmental strategy has focused on control of industrial air, water
and hazardous waste pollution.  It has also concentrated on reformning the overall
regulatory framework. Preparatory work for the proposed project included four studies
assessing CM's initiative in these areas; see paras. 2.12-2.15 below.
2.9   Chongqing has the highest levels of ambient sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions in
China, and possibly in the world. Unfortunately, in recent years the air pollution in CM
has worsened, primarily from the increased use of coal with high (3.5-4.5 percent) sulfur
content. Added to that are very high ambient levels of total suspended particulates (TSP).
Air pollution in CM also results from industrial waste gas emissions (from the
metallurgical, pharmaceutical, and chemical industries), from inferior quality transport
fuel and from household coal-burning stoves. CM has implemented a number of
measures to reduce SO2 emissions. A primary target has been the power sector, which
utilizes almost 30 percent of the coal consumed. A total of 720 MW of power generation
capacity has been retrofitted with flue gas desulfurization technology, another 400 MW
of existing 600 MW capacity has advanced plans for such retrofitting, and all new power



- 12 -
generation capacity will require it. CM has also experimented with establishing "sulfur
control districts," where any coal containing an excess of 2.7 percent sulfur is charged a
levy of Y 5/ton. This measure has stabilized SO2 levels, but it has not resulted in any
significant reduction.
2.10  In 1987, a wastewater permit system was introduced to control discharges from
the top 200 water polluters, who are responsible for 80 percent of wastewater discharges.
By 1995, the total industrial pollutant tonnage in wastewater had been reduced from
300,000 to 150,000 tons per year (tpy). This still represents 30,000 tpy more than the
estimated assimilative capacity of the surface water system, and permit levels have been
further restricted to reach discharge limits.
2.11   Currently  the regulations governing  hazardous wastes management are
inadequate, and hazardous waste disposal is largely uncontrolled. CM recognizes this
serious problem and will regulate and manage waste handling and disposal, based on the
recently enacted law.
2.12  As part of project preparation, four studies were carried out under Japan Grant
Facility (JGF) financing to assess ways the proposed project can support enhancing CM's
industrial pollution control strategy. One study examined the adequacy of the air quality
monitoring network in CM to define the nature and locations of priority air pollution
problems. It also examined consistency between air emission standards and ambient air
quality standards applicable in CM.  Air quality data, analytical procedures and
monitoring problems were reviewed. An urban airshed model recently developed by the
Beijing Environmental Research Institute was utilized to examine consistency between
air quality standards and regulated emission limits. The study concluded that the air
quality monitoring network is inadequate and recommendations for equipment
improvements were made. With the exception of SO2, air emission standards, if
enforced, would provide air quality levels meeting the standards. Further regulatory
reforms are needed to reduce S02 emissions so that ambient levels are within standards.
2.13  A second study examined the adequacy of the existing ambient water quality
monitoring network and the status of industrial hazardous waste management. It also
examined consistency of effluent discharge standards with ambient water quality
standards. Water quality data, laboratory facilities and current monitoring programs were
reviewed, and attempts were made to collect data on industrial practices for hazardous
waste management. Additionally, a water quality model was used to predict changes to
water quality after completion of the Three Gorges Dam. The study concluded that the
water quality monitoring program must be improved after the dam is completed.
Recommendations were also made for equipment and laboratory facility modernization.
Although the dam would adversely affect CM's water quality even if existing wastewater
discharge standards are met, water quality should remain within acceptable limits.
However, serious water quality problems may arise when the dam is completed if
enforcement is not improved. The study also concluded that there was effectively no



- 13 -
institutional capacity or meaningful data for regulating industrial practices in hazardous
waste management.
2.14  The third study examined the overall legislative and regulatory framework for
environmental management in CM. It studied institutional responsibilities, capacity for
implementing legislative mandates, and the practices of the CEPB for industrial
compliance monitoring and enforcement mechanisms. The study concluded that the
regulatory framework requires some modifications, but is for the most part acceptable.
The current system of enforcement (including penalties) has significant shortcomings,
particularly with regard to (a) registration of new industry, (b) EIAs, (c) compliance with
the "three synchronization requirements" for design, construct and operate appropriate
pollution control systems and (d) assessment, collection and utilization of penalties for
violators.
2.15   The fourth study examined the health effects of air pollution in CM. Based on
data from 1993, a highly significant association of increased cardiovascular disease
mortality was found with ambient concentrations of particulates (40 percent increase for
100 .g/m3 increase), SO2 (23 percent increase for 100 p.g/m3 increase) and NO, (37
percent increase for 20 pig/mi3 increase). Independent measurements of fine particles
(PM1O/PM2.5) and SO2 were taken in different air quality zones in the city in summer
and winter and correlated with cross-sectional health survey data gathered from 3,500
adults and 300 primary school children. Among other findings, a significant association
was found between air pollution and reduced pulmonary function. A study of ambient air
pollution and the association of hospital admissions, emergency room visits, and daily
mortality was begun in February 1995. Preliminary results from the most recent time-
series analysis confirm the correlation between high concentrations of particulates and
sulfur and excess deaths and health impacts in Chongqing. Results of the study will be
finalized in August 1996.
2.16  Iron and Steel Sector Pollution Control Action Plan. CEPB has prepared lists
of the top air and water polluters in CM, including 88 industrial air pollution sources and
93 industrial water pollution sources. Of these, 32 industrial enterprises have been
identified by NEPA as among the 3,000 worst industrial polluters in China. Mitigation
plans are required for all polluters listed, and a major part of the environmental control
strategy is based upon the implementation of these plans. Enterprises associated with the
iron and steel sector represent a significant number of all the industrial sources on these
lists. Recognizing this, CEPB, in conjunction with the iron and steel companies in CM,
has prepared a detailed pollution control action plan for this sector. The plan identifies
major sources of pollution, necessary mitigation technologies, and associated costs.
Analogous plans for the remaining industrial polluters are still to be formulated.
2.17 Source Monitoring. Ambient air and water quality monitoring in CM is
performed with two networks: an automatic network consisting of five stations, and a
manual network at nine stations, to measure sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon
monoxide and suspended particulate matter. The automatic monitoring network is



- 14-
operated continuously only 12-20 days per month. It is unreliable and subject to frequent
breakdowns. The manual network is of limited scope, and only operates over a five-
consecutive-day period at a given site once every three months, which does not provide
CEPB with meaningful data. Water quality monitoring is conducted by CEPB at seven
locations, four on the Yangtze River and three on the Jialing River. At each location a
three-point traverse is sampled, one at each bank and one in the center of the river. There
are 64 tributaries to these two main rivers and 15 are monitored regularly by local EPBs.
Sampling on the rivers is done six times per year at five of the stations, and monthly at
the other two stations. Twenty-seven water quality parameters are to be analyzed. The
water quality monitoring network is satisfactory, but the monitoring frequency is too low
along the tributaries, and monitoring equipment is obsolete.
2.18 Compliance Monitoring. Compliance monitoring is based upon a plan prepared
by CEPB in conjunction with the local EPBs. A total of 272 major industrial pollution
sources (190 for wastewaters and 88 for waste gases) are monitored regularly. They
account for 70 percent of the pollution load. Wastewaters are monitored twice per year,
and for waste gases once per year. Another 600 or more medium polluting enterprises are
monitored less frequently, and the remaining industries are self-monitoring. The major
problem  with the compliance monitoring program  is insufficient equipment and
personnel to increase the number of industries surveyed, the numbers of specific
pollutants being monitored, and the frequency of monitoring.  The problem  is
compounded because available equipment is mostly of inferior quality and constantly in
need of repair.
2.19  Regulatory Enforcement.  The existing set of industrial pollution control
enforcement tools-enterprise/investment registration, EIA, the "three synchronization"
program, and the pollution levy/discharge permit system-has not been effective in
Chongqing. CEPB's registration system is not enforced; consequently, CEPB is not fully
aware of the number and nature of new industrial projects and their pollution potential.
New projects require an EIA, but compliance is 70 percent for enterprises affiliated with
CM, and 50 percent for enterprises affiliated with district and county governments.
Industrial enterprises generally comply with the first of the "three synchronizations"
because of the need for EPB approval before construction can begin. For the second
synchronization, CEPB must inspect the construction site to insure pollution control
facilities are being built. Actual site visits occur much less frequently than required
because of insufficient personnel. Finally, compliance with the third synchronization is
extremely small because enforcement is weak. Overall, compliance is low because of
limited penalties.
2.20  In Chongqing fees and fines are collected in a pollution levy fund. The fund is
used to: (a) make grants or low-interest loans for pollution control to firms that have paid
levies, or (b) retained by CEPB/EPBs for monitoring, research, equipment, supplies, etc.
Several problems have developed with this system. First, the charges are too low to
encourage enterprises to install and operate pollution control equipment. Second, rather
than enforcing the fees on the basis of priority of the biggest polluter (the "polluter pays



- 15 -
principle") backed up by the threat of temporary or permanent closure, the levies are
enforced on the basis of the polluter's ability to pay. Third, proceeds from the fund have
been used to pay CEPB/EPB staff salaries, leading to ambivalence about enforcement.
Finally, since discharge limits are concentration-based, many industrial enterprises
simply dilute their discharges to reduce concentrations and comply.
2.21   Regulatory reform and comprehensive planning for industrial pollution control are
necessary elements of a program to reduce industrial pollution.. Currently CM does not
have a comprehensive plan to control industrial pollution. In order for CM to develop
such a plan, a substantial data base of air and water quality, and enterprise-specific
pollution discharge data are essential. CM does not have this data base, nor do they have
the necessary sampling and monitoring equipment to develop it. Chongqing has a sound
regulatory framework in place, but it must take immediate steps to upgrade enforcement
of the system, including compliance monitoring of enterprise registration, EIA
requirements, and the "three synchronizations." Levies for exceeding discharge standards
must be increased. Finally, CM needs to: (a) identify the nature and magnitude of the
hazardous waste problem, (b) locate acceptable disposal sites, and (c) prepare a
management plan to deal with this pollution.
C. ENTERPRISE REFORM PROGRAM
2.22  In part because of its interior location with poor transportation links, its rugged
topography, and its history as the country's defense production hub, Chongqing has been
relatively slow in transforming its state sector-dominated industries. While progress is
being made in improving SOE performance-due to proactive SOE restructuring, market
pressure exerted by domestic NSOEs, and competition from imports and foreign
investment-serious problems remain in Chongqing's large and medium SOEs:
suboptimal economies of scale, excessive vertical integration and exaggerated product
diversification, utilization of obsolete technologies, low productivity growth, poor
product quality, and heavy pollution. Symptomatic of these problems are SOE balance
sheet losses: 1994 losses of SOEs in all sectors total Y 4.2 billion (7.7 percent of CM's
GDP). While a major portion of industrial SOE losses are "policy losses" in the coal and
agricultural support industries (due to controlled prices set below cost), significant
"operational losses" are prevalent in textiles, machine tools, chemicals, and light industry.
2.23  In transforming CM's economy to bring it in line with the principles articulated in
the Fourteenth National Party Congress' 1993 "Decision" (para. 1. 15), CM has developed
a full set of enterprise reforms; these are detailed in CM's "Economic Policy Statement"
and "Economic Reform Agenda and Action Plan" (Annexes 3.1 and 3.2). CM has also
been chosen by the central government to participate in nationally directed reform
experiments: CM is one of 18 cities in the "Comprehensive Urban Reform" experiment;
one of two cities to participate in the "Enterprise Bankruptcy Reform" experiment; and it
participates in the "Modem Enterprise System Reform" experiment for "corporatization"
of 100 SOEs.



- 16-
2.24  CM's current enterprise reform program-which has as its centerpiece the
transformation of SOEs into modem corporations-builds on more than a decade of
reforms prior to the Fourteenth Party Congress. At present, over 40 industrial SOEs have
been converted to limited liability shareholding companies (LLSCs), over 200 have been
converted to limited liability companies (LLCs), and more than 400 TVEs have been
converted to cooperative shareholding companies. Of the SOE shareholding companies,
six are listed on the two domestic stock exchanges. One SOE, which is a beneficiary in
the proposed project (para. 3.14), has been chosen as one of the 100 enterprises in the
national program for corporatization. By the end of 1996 it is expected that 50 percent of
CM's industrial SOEs will be converted into either LLSCs or LLCs, and 100 percent will
be converted by the year 2000.
2.25  Financial discipline is being imposed by CM on SOEs through the reduction of
subsidies to cover losses. All subsidies for "operating losses" were terminated in 1993,
and only the coal and agricultural support industries currently receive direct subsidies due
to "policy losses." Like elsewhere in China, SOEs in CM receive subsidized credit for
technical renovation under CM's budget; they also enjoy working capital and technical
renovation subsidies through the financial system due to directed bank credit lent at
negative real interest rates. However, with the promulgation of the Commercial Banking
Law in 1995, CM's banks must meet market-based performance criteria and are now
increasingly making commercially-oriented lending decisions. SOE bankruptcies are
occurring only on a limited basis in Chongqing (as elsewhere in China).  SOE
rationalizations are largely engendered instead through mergers and acquisitions (often
involving collective enterprises). There are two main constraints to SOE liquidation: the
political consequences of disposing of large numbers of redundant workers; and the
regulatory limits imposed on banks as to the amounts of loans they can write off in any
one year. The new accounting standards required by national law (1993) have been
introduced in all of CM's large and medium industrial SOEs. Independent audits have
been conducted in 40 percent of CM's SOEs; the remaining 60 percent will be
independently audited by year-end 1996.
2.26  The redeployment of surplus workers (many with marginal skills) arising from the
restructuring of SOEs, and the work force requirements of an economy in transition, are
placing demands on Chongqing's municipal labor market institutions. In 1995, CM
introduced a program to encourage SOEs to create alternative employment opportunities
-especially in the service sector-for surplus workers through the creation of new
entities known as labor service enterprises (LSEs). SOEs establish LSEs through direct
investment, and by leasing or selling facilities. LSEs receive an income tax exemption
for the first two years of operation, and a 50 percent tax reduction in the third year. SOEs
are also providing extended leave-up to one year-and granting early retirement to
redundant workers. Restrictions on the outright dismissal of surplus workers remain,
however; there is an annual citywide limit of 2 percent of the total SOE work force.
Chongqing's labor market reforms have also focused on developing a "social safety net"
to ease the social burdens placed on SOEs. For example, pension insurance is being



- 17-
pooled and unemployment insurance is being expanded. Still, these programs are
nascent; it will be some time before they foster significant labor mobility in Chongqing.
2.27  Overall, CM has numerous initiatives under way to introduce market incentives
into its industrial sector to transform SOEs into modem corporations. These reforms
have been facilitated by the policy dialogue that has been established through the review
of CM's "Economic Policy Statement" and "Economic Reform Agenda and Action Plan"
during project preparation. The proposed project includes activities such as the technical
assistance to improve corporate governance by reforming state asset management
institutions, and to strengthen labor redeployment and training activities (see Chapter 3),
which will further help CM's efforts. These activities complement the proposed project's
assistance to CM in introducing market incentives to help control industrial pollution.



- 18 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1   The proposed project supports the Bank's lending strategy in China within a
policy framework that focuses on enhanced industrial pollution control linked to
enterprise reform and technological restructuring. Moreover, the project supports GOC's
efforts to help relatively underdeveloped regions in the interior catch up with the
country's faster growing coastal areas. To achieve these objectives, the project would
help CM to: (a) achieve a significant reduction in pollution and restructure productive
facilities from its most polluting industry, iron and steel; (b) establish a strategy and
prepare a long-term plan to achieve a major reduction in pollution for the whole industrial
sector by, inter alia, increasing the effectiveness of CM's environmental regulatory
framework and pollution management capability; and (c) initiate a pilot effort to assist
industrial enterprises in other industrial sectors to restructure their productive facilities,
control pollution and transform themselves into modem corporations.
3.2   The project design is based on detailed project preparation work involving policy
and feasibility studies (available in the project file) carried out with the assistance of
international and Chinese consultants financed with $0.45 million in IDA funds from the
China Reform, Institutional Support and Preinvestment Project (Credit 2447-CHA) and
$1.6 million in grants from JGF.
B. PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
3.3   Project outputs and impacts will be monitored on the basis of institutional
performance and development objective indicators agreed upon during negotiations. The
level of performance expected is indicated in Tables 3.1 and 3.2, below.



- 19-
TABLE 3.1: INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1997       1998       1999        2000       2001        2002
OBJECTIVE A: CSSC and CISCG/ZICC
Net profit before taxes as % of total sales revenue                 Measured against performance indicators in
5-year rolling financial projections
debt-to-equity ratio                                     70:30     _
debt service coverage                                     1:2
OBJECTIVE B: CEPB
% of priority polluting firms reporting/monitored for    20          35         55          75         90         100
SO2 emissions
% of registered firms completing ElAs                    75          85         95         100         100        100
% cumulative increase in pollution levy revenues          10         20         30          40         50          60
(based on all pollutants)
% of firms completing "third synchronization" approval   30          50         75         100         100        100
OBJECTIVE C
%  line-of-credit commitment                               50         75         100
%  line-of-credit disbursement                             15         35_         65         85         100
%  EIA mitigation plan compliance                         25%
(as percentage disbursements)
Net profit amount, and as % of sales                                 Measured against performance indicators in
enterprise restructuring plans
TABLE 3.2: DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE INDICATORS
1995               1999                                              2000      2001   2002
OBJECTIVEA
Shapingba District     570 per gnm3       Decrease           44% reduction in particulate     monitor        -       *
ambient air quality                       2,600 tons         ambient concentrations           compliance
per year (tpy)
Jiangbei District      520 per 1nm3       Decrease           22% reduction in particulate     monitor           -      -
ambient air quality                      3,800 tpy           ambient concentrations           compliance
Jinkou Farm            220 per ptnm       Increase           no adverse change in particulate   monitor     -
a;mbient air quality                      107 tpy            ambient concentrations asso-     compliance
ciated with relocated facility
Dadukou District       360 per ,nm3       Increase           no adverse change in particulate   monitor                  0
ambient air quality                       140 tpy           ambient concentrations asso-      compliance
ciated with re-located facility
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.4    The project includes:  (a) support for development and implementation of
economic and environmental policy agendas and action plans; (b) relocation of the city's
two major polluting steel mills; (c) restructuring advisory facilities for industrial
enterprises; (d) a line of credit to support a pilot program in industrial enterprise reform,
pollution control and restructuring; and (e) technical assistance (TA) to strengthen



- 20 -
environmental regulation, surplus labor reemployment and innovation in state asset
management.
Economic and Environmental Policy Agenda and Action Plans
3.5   Chongqing's Economic Reform Agenda and Action Plan. CM has developed
a reform program to implement the 1993 Decision of the 14th Party Congress (para. 1. 15)
and subsequent reform initiatives. CM's policy agenda and action plan focuses on
(a) corporatization and managerial autonomy of SOEs and TVEs, (b) divesting SOEs of
their social welfare functions, (c) hardening SOE fiscal and quasi-fiscal budget
constraints, (d) developing measures to facilitate merger or bankruptcy of nonviable
SOEs, (e) facilitating labor mobility through retraining and redeployment of surplus
workers, (f) developing a market-based corporate government system for managing state
assets, (g) separating investment decision-making from government planning,
(h) promoting competition in the financial sector by facilitating entry of foreign banks
and nonbanking financial institutions, (i) developing a market in residential housing by
increasing housing sales and rents, 6) expanding unemployment insurance to cover 100
percent of Chongqing's labor force, (k) establishing municipalwide integrated pension,
medical insurance and industrial injury compensation funds, (1) downsizing and
consolidating CM, and (m) improving environmental planning, monitoring and
enforcement with a priority to reducing industrial pollution. The policy dialogue between
CM and the World Bank during project preparation has become an important element in
fostering Chongqing's economic reform program, especially as it affects SOEs. A
detailed description of the program is contained in CM's "Economic Policy Statement
Letter" (Annex 3.1) and "Chongqing's Economic Reform Agenda and Action Plan"
(Annax.2).
3.6   Environmental Action Plans. A study of the environmental regulatory system in
Chongqing, which was carried out as part of project preparation, identified the lack of
environmental planning, management and enforcement, as the major impediments to
dealing with Chongqing's severe industrial pollution problem. Building on an iron and
steel sector pollution control plan developed during project preparation, the project would
finance TA to help CM develop the data bases necessary to prepare a pollution control
plan for the whole industrial sector. This would include a plan to deal with solid and
hazardous wastes, which have largely been ignored in Chongqing and elsewhere in China
(only in 1996 will legislation be in place to deal with this problem). The project would
help CM to develop a management system for site selection, storage and disposal of solid
and hazardous wastes. The project would also assist CM to strengthen regulatory
enforcement backed up by incentive measures to improve compliance with industrial
pollution control standards. These initiatives, and the plans that would lead to their
implementation, are discussed in the following paragraphs. Annex 3.3 has a full account
of all the environmental activities undertaken under this project.
3.7  Iron and Steel Sector Pollution Control Action Plan. All enterprises in the
steel sector are part of either the Chongqing Iron and Steel Company (Group) Limited



- 21 -
(CISCG) or the Chongqing Special Steel Company (Group) Limited (CSSC). Iron and
steel production is a major source of pollution in CM, representing 12 of the 88 largest
sources of industrial air pollution, and 7 of the 93 largest sources of water pollution.
CSSC and CISCG have prepared a priority pollution control action plan and investment
schedule for the steel sector, consisting of eight priority investments targeted to reduce or
eliminate major pollution problems in the sector. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that CM would carry out an action plan acceptable to the Bank to control
pollution in the iron and steel sector. The investments are prioritized on the basis of
environmental impact, and the first two priority investments identified in the plan-
namely shutdown of existing steel mills, and their relocation/replacement with modem
nonpolluting steel-making facilities for both CISCG and CSSC-constitute the industrial
relocation component of this project. Both relocated plants will meet national, provincial
and municipal environmental regulations. Specifically, the plan consists of (a) a list of
priority mitigating measures to be taken by each iron and steel plant to assure compliance
with Chinese environmental regulations for air, water, and solid waste management, (b) a
capital cost estimate for each measure and (c) an implementation schedule consistent with
sector restructuring objectives and environmental priorities.
3.8   The projects identified in the plan (in order of priority) are presented below:
CISCG (ZICC) Steel Mill (Jiangbei)   Shutdown and relocate
CSSC Steel Mill (Shapingba)        Shutdown and relocate
CISCG Coke oven (Dadukou)          Cleanup of coke oven gas
CSSC Rolling mill (Shuangbei)      Install air and water pollution control equipment
CISCG Iron Alloy Plant (Chang Sou)  Install dust control equipment
CSSC Refractory Plant (Shuangbei)   Install dust control equipment
CISCG Blast Furnace (Jiang Jin)    Install dust control equipment
CISCG Seamless Pipe Plant (Ba Lan)  Install wastewater treatment facilities
3.9   Industrial Pollution Control Strategy and Action Plan. CM has successfully
implemented a permit system for controlling major industrial wastewater polluters, and
has achieved significant reductions in industrial pollutant loads. Air pollution levels,
however, have considerably worsened over the last 10 years, primarily from the rapidly
growing energy use from boilers fueled by high-sulfur coal. Waste gases from industrial
processes (particularly metallurgical, pharmaceutical, and chemical industries) are also a
major air pollution source. In consequence, major efforts have to be made to control and
reduce air pollution levels; and the two steel plant relocations provide an important
demonstration effect (paras. 3.12-3.14). Also, CM is just beginning, with the help of TA
under this project, to deal with the problem of solid and hazardous waste pollution. The
steel sector pollution control plan discussed above, is therefore simply the first step to
preparing a pollution control plan for the industrial sector as a whole. The study will start
after one year of ambient air and water quality monitoring data obtained with the new
equipment to be financed under the project, the hazardous waste inventory and site
selection studies have been completed, and the Environmental Audit Unit (EAU) in
CEPB is operational. CEPB will establish a Task Force to work with Consultants for the



- 22 -
duration of the assignment (six months). CEPB will (a) review ambient air, water quality
and pollution source data bases, (b) identify industrial enterprises that contribute 90
percent of industrial pollution as priority polluters, and (c) evaluate costs and prepare
least-cost solutions for the priority list. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that CM would prepare an industrial pollution control strategy and action plan
satisfactory to the Bank submit the plan to the Bank nol later than December 31, 1998
and subsequently implement it. Detailed TORs to assist CM in preparing environmnental
action plans are provided in Annexes 3.4-3.7.
3.10  Environmental Regulatory Enforcement Action Plan. A study prepared by an
international consultant as part of project preparation and financed by JGF provided
recommendations for environmental regulatory reform in Chongqing. An environmental
regulatory enforcement plan has been developed to include the following measures:
(a) enforcement of the CEPB registration requirement for industrial projects;
(b) compliance with EIA requirements; (c) adding air quality standards for lead and
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, (d) implementing new municipal regulations
establishing an SO2 emission levy system; (e) modifying the levy system to include all
pollutants; (f) enforcement of the "third synchronization" monitoring of pollution control
measures; and (g) increasing the number of enterprises monitored and the
amount/collection of levy charges. To meet data processing needs for these activities, an
information data processing center has been included in the technical assistance
component to CEPB. During negotiations, CM provided the Bank with a plan for the
municipalwide implementation of the SO2 levy system, which would be approved and
implemented by CM prior to Loan effectiveness. The regulatory reform action plan,
including a schedule of actions and performance indicators, is presented in Annex 3.6.
During negotiations assurances were obtained from CM that it would (a) carry out an
environmental regulatory enforcement plan satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) as part of its
annual report to the Bank prepare an annual report on CM's environmental status,
which would include performance under each of the action plans and the CSSC RAP, as
well as data on its current environmental status and changes from the previous year.
3.11  Associated GEF Project. In parallel with the proposed project, an Efficient
Industrial Boilers Project is being developed for support totaling about $32.8 million
from the Global Environmental Facility (GEF). Both projects involve the restructuring
and modernization of heavy industry with the explicit intention of lowering emissions of
both greenhouse gases and air pollutants, and promoting least-cost alternatives for
pollution control. The GEF project seeks to reduce pollution and improve the energy
efficiency of small and medium coal-fired industrial boilers by acquiring foreign
advanced technology, adapting it to Chinese conditions, and broadly disseminating it
throughout China. Chongqing, which has some of the highest concentrations of SO2 in
the world, can significantly reduce both sulfur and particulate emissions through the
adoption of more energy efficient and cleaner industrial boilers. According to CM, small
and medium boilers account for as much as one-half of the municipality's coal
consumption and associated air pollution. CM has therefore embarked on a program to
implement a municipalitywide S02 pollution levy system (para. 3. 1 0). The GEF project



- 23 -
associated with the proposed project is expected to be appraised in July 1996 and
approved in November 1996.
Industrial Relocation Component
3.12  Chongqing's largest and most polluting industry is iron and steel. The project
would support closing down and relocating the two most polluting steel plants from a
highly populated urban setting, to achieve the goal of (a) reducing industrial pollution in
the urban center, and (b) replacing obsolete and inefficient industrial facilities with
modern highly efficient plants that can meet both Chinese and international
environmental and efficiency standards.  Feasibility studies carried out by local
consultants with the assistance of international consultants, and revised during project
appraisal (see Annexes 3.9-3.11), indicate that both relocations are environmentally,
financially and economically justifiable. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that CSSC and CISCG would carry out a program of closure, physical relocation and
restructuring of production facilities, as well as financial restructuring, according to
feasibility studies agreed with the Bank.
3.13 The Chongqing Special Steel Company (Group) Limited (CSSC) was
established in 1934 to produce steel blooms for further processing in CSSC's mills.
Among all Chongqing's industrial enterprises, it is the worst air polluter, the sixteenth
worst water polluter, and one of the largest producers of solid industrial wastes, which are
dumped on the banks of the Yangtze River. This plant is located in a congested urban
area of Chongqing and poses an immediate health hazard to the local population. CSSC's
10 small highly polluting electric arc furnaces (EAF) at the old site would be closed, and
a single modem, environmentally sound 100-ton EAF would be located in a rural area.
Resettlement of the affected population is presently under way (paras. 5.29-5.30). The
plant's capacity will be about 20 percent greater than the old plant, a level of output
justified by economic scale and market research projections. The proposed relocation is
the highest priority action in a steel sector pollution control plan. An EIA of this
relocation has been prepared by the Chongqing Iron and Steel Design Institute (CISDI),
reviewed by the Bank and approved by NEPA.  The financial, economic and
environmental justification of this relocation is contained in Chapter 5. Additional
information on CSSC is in Annex 3.9.
3.14 The Zhongxing Industry and Commerce Company (ZICC) was established in
1939 as a facility to make steel for CISCG. Its two open-hearth furnaces representing
1940s technology have already been closed. A remaining EAF will be closed in 1998.
ZICC is located in the densely populated city center (Jiangbei district) on the north shore
of the Jialing River. Its air emissions have never been treated and represented a major
source of air pollution in the city. The new plant will be located in CISCG's main steel-
making complex in the Dadukou district, and will produce 300,000 tons per year (tpy) of
continuous cast steel billets for CISCG's Dadukou medium-section rolling mill. This
relocation is the second highest priority action in the steel sector pollution control plan.
An EIA of the relocation has been prepared by CISDI, reviewed by the Bank and



- 24 -
approved by NEPA. The financial, economic and environmental justification for this
relocation is contained in Chapter 5. Additional information on CISCG can be found in
Annex 3.11.
Restructuring Advisory Facilities
3.15  A  major innovation under the project has been to establish independent
restructuring advisory facilities to assist SOEs and NSOEs prepare restructuring plans
setting forth pollution control and commercial objectives and related strategies. For each
firm receiving advice, the final product would be a restructuring plan and investment
proposal that would be expected to meet both the domestic feasibility requirements of the
State Planning Commission and the creditworthiness standards of banks wishing to
finance these enterprises.
3.16  A restructuring advisory facility (RAF) was established through the award of a
contract bv CM on June 28, 1995 to international and local consultants. The contract is
funded by a Japanese grant of $1.1 million equivalent. The RAF's services are available
to medium and large industrial SOEs selected through a competitive process, that can
meet minimun eligibility criteria: (a) completion of an environmental audit by CEPB;
(b) conversion to an LLC or LLSC under the Company Law, and (c) submission of
independently audited financial statements in accordance with the new accounting
standards. The RAF has the right to exercise its independent judgment as to (i) the
enterprises it accepts and (ii) the recommendations it incorporates in feasibility and
restructuring plans. The first four enterprises were selected on September 20, 1995 and
draft restructuring plans for all four have been completed. During appraisal, it was
decided that the rest of the enterprises to be selected would also be subject to an
additional eligibility criterion, that is, they would be ranked according to the severity of
their pollution problem prior to being ranked on their technical, financial and economic
merits. Four additional enterprises were selected on January 25, 1996 and the final two
were selected by the end of March 1996. A key feature of the RAF is that by September
1996 it is expected that 10 enterprise restructuring plans will have been completed by the
RAF and will be available for PFI consideration.
3.17  A nonstate enterprise (NSOE) restructuring facility (NSRAF) is expected to
be established by the end of June 1996 to prepare plans for industrial NSOEs intending to
apply for a loan under the line of credit (LOC). NSOEs are defined as enterprises with
less than 51 percent of their capital owned by the state or by entities that are less than 51
percent owned by the state. The NSRAF would be composed of two local independent
consultants, chosen through public tender, using the same TOR, tendering procedures and
contract formats used to establish the RAF. NSOEs would be able to choose either
consultant.  The NSRAF enterprise eligibility criteria, evaluation and competitive
selection procedures would follow those applied by the RAF. NSRAF funding of
$250,000 would be provided under the project to CM. A continuing advisory facility
(CAF) will be established after the RAF and NSRAF contracts have expired. The CAF
would be available to industrial enterprises meeting all LOC eligibility requirements. An



- 25 -
enterprise could choose any independent consultant and include in the amount borrowed
under the LOC the reasonable cost for the consultant's preparation of its restructuring
plans, provided the consultant's qualifications and TOR are satisfactory to the PMO and
the Bank.
Line-Of-Credit Component (LOC)
3.18  An LOC would be established as a pilot program to support industrial enterprises
that are participating in enterprise reforrn, restructuring productive facilities and cleaning
up pollution. Reliable demand estimates prepared by the RAF indicate a need for an
LOC of about $60 million. Initial PFI estimates indicate they would be able to mobilize
counterpart resources to support an LOC of $50 million. Under the circumstances, an
LOC of $60 million is proposed to be available on a first-come/first-served basis to any
industrial enterprise that could meet the following eligibility criteria: (a) is a limited
liability (shareholding) company or otherwise established as a legal entity; (b) has a
completed EIA by CEPB, and has agreed to a mitigation plan satisfactory to the Bank; (c)
has a satisfactory resettlement plan (if applicable), prepared according to the Resettlement
Principles and Procedures agreed upon during negotiations; (d) has adopted the new
accounting standards and its financial statements have been audited by independent
auditors; (e) has a satisfactory RAF/NSRAF restructuring plan (or other restructuring
plan prepared according to the RAF/NSRAF methodology) demonstrating the technical
feasibility, market potential and financial viability of the proposed investment and (f) has
been appraised and found creditworthy by a PFI.
3.19 Borrowing Limits. To ensure that NSOEs gain access to the LOC, a minimum
of 10 percent of the total amount of the LOC would be available to them. The LOC
would finance goods and services required for enterprise restructuring and pollution
control. Local counterpart financing would be provided by the beneficiary and the PFI, in
accordance with prudent debt-equity limits.   To prevent any enterprise from
monopolizing the LOC, no single company could borrow more than 20 percent or group
company more than 25 percent of the LOC total. Moreover, enterprises would have to
ensure that they would be able to finance at least 25 percent of the subproject's total
investment from their own resources.
3.20  Financial Intermediation.  Recently, the financial system  in China has
undergone rapid and fundamental changes, such as the promulgation of the new
Commercial Banking Law, which focuses on banks as independent entities. The
implications of this are only gradually becoming clear. The requirement that each bank
be responsible for its own profit and loss and asset quality has made banks reluctant to
assume new risks. Consequently, only ABC among the banks that traditionally have lent
to industry in Chongqing has received head office approval to participate. This project
has been a catalyst in enhancing competition in Chongqing's banking sector. Everbright
Bank of China (EBBC), which established a representative office in Chongqing in 1994,
has received head office approval to establish a branch and participate in the project.
China Merchants Bank (CMB) has also received head office approval to establish a



- 26 -
branch in Chongqing and participate in the project. Appraisal of these three banks has
been completed, and included, inter alia, the extent to which the bank: (a) is currently in
compliance with PBC regulations, (b) has the ability to evaluate the risks associated with
proposed projects, (c) has the capacity to mobilize counterpart funds, and (d) presents an
external audit of its accounts for the most recent fiscal year reflecting a satisfactory
financial condition. All three PFIs demonstrated during appraisal that they are financially
sound and have the potential for carrying out the function of financial intermediary under
the LOC component. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that ABC, CMB
and EBBC would, by December 31, 1996, adopt training programs satisfactory to the
Bank to strengthen their institutional capabilities in credit policy procedures and
analysis, and project appraisal and supervision. Assurances were also obtained that
PFIs would furnish the Bank with independently audited annual financial statements
within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
3.21   The Agricultural Bank of China was established in 1951. In 1979, it became
one of four "specialized banks," and, since 1994, it has been categorized as a "state
commercial bank." At the end of 1994, it had 63,816 branches or offices, and 552,709
employees. Although ABC is subject to the official government credit plan, through its
rural network it is able to mobilize deposits that can be lent outside the plan. At the end
of 1994, ABC had total assets of Y 1,253 billion ($150.6 billion equivalent), total
deposits of Y 605.0 billion ($72.7 billion), total loans of Y 595.3 billion ($71.6 billion),
total equity of Y 44.8 billion ($5.4 billion) and net profit of Y 2.7 billion ($324.5
million). As of December 31, 1994, ABC's Chongqing Branch had total assets of
Y 17.4 billion ($2.1 billion), total deposits of Y 5.6 billion ($673.1 million), total loans of
Y 5.9 billion ($709.1 million), total equity of Y 0.4 billion ($48.1 million) and net profits
of Y 14.2 million ($1.7 million). See Annex 3.12 for a detailed description and financial
statements.
3.22 The China Merchants Bank (CMB) was established in 1987 as a commercial
bank. It is subject to the provisions of the Commercial Banking Law, the regulations of
PBC, and is outside the official government credit plan. It has 17 branches and total staff
of 3,100. At the end of 1994, it had total assets of Y 44.7 billion ($5.4 billion), total
deposits of Y 25.6 billion ($3.1 billion), total loans of Y 21.2 billion ($2.5 billion), total
equity of Y 3.7 billion ($444.7 million) and net profits of Y 0.7 billion ($84.1 million). A
detailed annex with financial statements is contained in Annex 3.13.
3.23 The Everbright Bank of China (EBBC) was established in 1992 as a
"nationwide" commercial bank. It is subject to the provisions of the Commercial
Banking Law and the regulations of PBC. EBBC has 10 branches and a total staff of
1,594. At the end of 1994, EBBC had total assets of Y 20.2 billion ($2.4 billion), total
deposits of Y 11.9 billion ($1.4 billion), total loans of Y 6.6 billion ($793.3 million), total
equity of Y 1.4 billion ($168.3 million), and net profit of Y 0.3 billion ($36.1 million).
See Annex 3.14 for a detailed description including financial statements.



- 27 -
3.24 Appraisal Methodology. During negotiations, assurances were received from
the PFIs that they will appraise subprojects and supervise, monitor, and report on
subprojects in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank   Appraisal
procedures will focus on (a) an analysis of the viability of the enterprise undertaking the
subproject, (b) an evaluation of the subproject's EIA mitigation plan, (c) an evaluation of
the subproject's technical, financial, economic and managerial justification, (d) a market
analysis of the justification for expanding existing product lines and/or introducing new
ones, (e) an evaluation of procurement arrangements, and (f) an assessment of the
enterprise's debt service capability. PFI loan agreements with subborrowers will include
appropriate financial and management covenants, and covenants governing the
implementation of EIAs and RAPs (if appropriate). Subborrowers will bear the foreign
exchange risk. PFIs will bear the credit risk and will establish appropriate terms and
conditions for each subloan subject to the following:
(a)   Interest Rate and Fees. Subborrowers will pay a commitment fee of 0.75
percent on the undisbursed balance of any subloan. The minimum interest
margin will be 2.0 percent above the rate provided by the Bank but is
expected to vary based on (i) the PFI's cost of appraisal and loan
processing; (ii) administrative overhead; (iii) repayment risk assessment
and (iv) an appropriate profit margin;
(b)   Maturity. Although the maturity of individual subloans will be based on
projected cash flow of the borrower and on the credit policies of the PFI,
in no instance will the grace period or final maturity of a subloan exceed 5
or 12 years, respectively;
(c)   Rate of Return. Each subproject financed by the LOC will have a
financial rate of return (FRR) of not less than II percent, and an economic
rate of return (ERR) of not less than 11 percent.
(d)   Bank Approval/Review. The first two subprojects for each PFI will be
subject to World Bank approval. For subsequent subprojects below $5.0
million for ABC and below $3.5 million for CMB and EBBC, the PFI will
submit a summary description of the enterprise and subproject, including
the expenditures to be financed, relending terms and conditions and
arnortization schedule to the Bank, requesting its authorization to make
withdrawals.  Subsequent loans above these specified amounts will
continue to require Bank prior approval, based on the submission of a full
appraisal report.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the PFIs would make subloans in
accordance with procedures and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank



- 28 -
Technical Assistance Component
3.25  Chongqing Environmental Protection Bureau. Technical assistance would be
provided to CEPB in four key areas: (a) improving the ambient air and water quality
monitoring networks and providing source monitoring mobile equipment; (b) helping
establish environmental audit capability; (c) developing hazardous waste management
and disposal plans, and an overall pollution control plan for the industrial sector; and
(d) establishing a data processing information center. The monitoring TA would involve
provision of 11 automatic and 28 semiautomatic monitoring stations, four mobile vans,
one laboratory and related equipment. The environmental audit specialists will be trained
in Beijing at the NEPA Center for Clean Production Technology. An international expert
in industrial environmnental auditing will work with NEPA staff in preparing the training
program and in assisting CEPB perform environmental audits at eight industrial facilities.
TORs for the international experts to train the environmental audit unit and prepare the
hazardous waste plans are presented in Annexes 3.4. 3.5 and 3.8. During negotiations,
CM provided assurances that it would establish an EAU in CEPB, with TOR, staff and
resources acceptable to the Bank and provide the Bank with a satisfactory signed
contract with international consultants to train EA U staff one month after Loan
effectiveness. A cost summary of this TA is as follows:
Equipment                                             $4,867,000
Technical Assistance                                    313,000
Total                                            $5I180000
3.26  Redeploying Surplus Labor. A critical factor for the success of CM's economic
reform program depends upon dealing with the much larger number of workers that are
expected to become redundant in the future. CM will establish a Surplus Labor
Employment and Training Center at a total cost of $853,000 equivalent, of which the
Bank would finance foreign exchange costs totaling $590,000 (62 percent of the total
cost), including equipment amounting to $490,000 and TA of $100,000. The Center
would provide training and job placement to surplus workers, using an integrated
approach involving curriculum development and training in emerging job skills, and
labor market information and job placement assistance. The Center will also provide
guidance to enterprises' own redeployment and training efforts, as well as to Chongqing
Labor Bureau's (CLB) county and district employment and training offices. It is
envisioned that, initially, the Center will concentrate on serving the "at risk" workers of
the SOEs and the steel companies being restructured under the project. CEPB and CLB
have agreed to cooperate in the development of training courses in the Center that will
meet the needs of enterprises for skilled environmental and pollution control personnel.
During negotiations assurances were obtained from CM on the Center 's organizational
structure, and on CM's provision of the physical facilities, construction and renovation
requirements, and staffing needs. A description of the Center and the TOR for this TA is
contained in Annex 3.15.



- 29 -
3.27  SOE restructuring with separation of 2 percent of the involved work force (CM
guideline percentage), will place demands on the unemployment insurance (UI) system if
alternative employment is not found. Also, the present scope of coverage of the Ul
system needs to be expanded. CM needs to assess the interactions between the UI system
and CM labor market demand, the adequacy of UI financing, and identify measures
needed to maintain the financial solvency of the Ul system. The Bank would provide
$30,000 for consultant services and $10,000 for computing equipment to support the
development of a UI data base and management system.
3.28  Model State Asset Operating Company.  According to CM's state asset
management regulations, state asset operating companies (SAOCs) are entities
established under the Company Law entrusted with the management of state assets, with
the state asset management bureau (SAMB) acting as owner on behalf of the state.
SAOCs are to be organized through conversion of manufacturing and service line bureaus
into LLCs with 100 percent state ownership. SAOCs will not be operating companies,
but will more closely resemble investment holding companies. To advance reform of its
state asset management system, CM has decided to create a new, model industrial SAOC
that is innovative in its design, structure, operation and management. Specifically, CM
intends to establish, with international and local expertise, a cross-sectoral SAOC. TA of
$120,000 would provide international best practice and local advice regarding corporate
organizational, functional and financial structures; portfolio management; investment and
dividend policy. The TORs and budget for the contract are contained in Annex 3.16.
3.29 During negotiations, assurances were obtained from CM that it would carry out
the institutional strengthening under the project in accordance with a time-bound
program satisfactory to the Bank.
D. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Leading Group and Management Office
3.30  The Chongqing authorities set up a Project Leading Group (PLG) in April 1995 to
oversee the project. The Leading Group is headed by a Deputy Mayor, and comprises the
director of the planning commission and the vice directors of the planning commission,
economic commission, finance bureau, system reform commission, CEPB, CLB, ABC,
CMB and EBBC. The Leading Group will be maintained throughout the project
implementation period.
3.31   Under the PLG, the Chongqing Municipal Management Office of the World
Bank's Capital Utilization (PMO) has been established to carry out the administrative
work of the project. The PMO comprises staff from the same agencies as those
represented in the Leading Group. Its responsibilities include (a) providing coordination
among various project stakeholders; (b) monitoring project implementation, with special
emphasis on meeting performance indicators; (c) preparation of a project implementation
plan; and (d) providing periodic reports to the World Bank on the progress of project
implementation. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from CM that (i) PMO



- 30 -
will maintain a resettlement unit and will establish by December 31, 1996 an
environmental unit to coordinate implementation of the RAP and environmental aspects
of the project, (ii) furnish the Bank with annual progress reports by July 30, on project
implementation and meeting performance indicators; and (iii) not later than March 31,
1999 CM will prepare a mid-term report and hold a Mid-Term Review with all project
participants to assess whether the project is making satisfactory progress in meeting its
objectives. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that CM would maintain (a) the
PLG, with composition and functions acceptable to the Bank; and (b) the PMO, with
competent staff in adequate numbers, functions and responsibilities, acceptable to the
Bank
Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
3.32 With Bank assistance, the PMO has prepared a PIP (Annex3.17) aggregating the
individual PIPs of each project component, to enable the PLG and PMO to carefully plan,
sequence and schedule the activities and corresponding resources that will be required to
complete project appraisal and undertake project implementation. The proposed project
would be implemented over a six-year period from 1997 to 2002. The closing date for
subproject commitments is June 30, 2001, and the loan closing date for disbursements is
December 31, 2002.



- 31 -
4. THE LOAN, PROJECT COST, FINANCING PLAN,
PROCUREMENT, AND DISBURSEMENT
A. MAIN FEATURES OF THE LOAN
4.1   The People's Republic of China will be the Borrower of the proposed Bank single
currency loan of $170 million. GOC and CM have selected LIBOR-based US dollar
single-currency loan terms for the project in order to facilitate management of the foreign
exchange risk of their borrowings by more closely matching the currency of their
liabilities with that of their net trade flow, about 75 percent of which are US dollar
denominated. They selected the LIBOR-based product in order to preserve the full
maturity of the loan, compared to the fixed-rate option that would have resulted in a 15-
year loan. The Borrower judges that it can manage any interest rate risk. China is
eligible for single-currency loans under the expanded program. This loan together with
other FY96 single currency loans represent about 42 percent of the fiscal year IBRD
lending program to China, well within the 50 percent volume guideline approved by the
Bank.
4.2   During negotiations, assurances were provided that (a) the proceeds of the loan
will be made available by the Borrower to CMfor 20 years including 5 years of grace at
an interest rate equal to the standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single
currency loans at the time offunds commitment; and (b) CM would relend the proceeds
of the loan (i) at the standard rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans plus
a spread of 1.2 percent per year to CSSC and CISCG for 12 years including 5 years of
grace, and (ii) at the standard rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans to
PFIs for 20 years including 5 years of grace, allowing the PFIs to retain the "rollover "
between the maturities of the subloans and the maturity of the Bank loan to be relent for
similar purposes. The final date for submission of subloan applications will be June 30,
2001. The closing date of the loan will be December 31, 2002. The commitment fee of
0.75 percent per year would be passed on to the subborrower.
4.3   In order to set out the respective obligations of the entities involved, the following
agreements will be entered into: (a) a Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank; (b) a Project Agreement between CM and the Bank; (c) a Project Agreement
between CSSC, CISCG and the Bank; (d) a Project Agreement between the PFIs and the
Bank; (d) Subsidiary Loan Agreements between CM and CSSC, CISCG and the PFIs;
and (e) Subloan Agreements between the PFIs and the enterprises. As a condition of loan
effectiveness, CM, the steel companies and the PFIs would execute subsidiary loan
agreements satisfactory to the Bank



- 32 -
B. PROJECT COST
4.4     The capital cost estimates on individual project components are summarized
below in Table 4.1. Based on a projected Bank Loan of $170 million, the estimated cost
of the project is $478.1 million (Y 4.0 billion), with a foreign exchange component of
$151.4 million (25 percent). The project cost includes interest during construction of
$18.1 million.
TABLE 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Y million                     $ million        % Foreign
Local    Foreign    Total      Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange
CSSC Relocation                   512.99    367.64    880.63      61.66   44.19   105.85   22.8
CISCG Relocation                  358.13    216.32    574.45      43.04   26.00    69.04    23.2
Line of Credit                    956.80    416.00   1,372.80    115.00   50.00   165.00   30.3
Environmental Monitoring System   186.03     42.68    228.71      22.31    5.18    27.49    18.7
Labor Redeployment Center           3.58      5.24      8.82       0.43    0.63     1.06    59.4
TAto SAOC                           4.24      2.00      6.24       0.65    0.10     0.75   32.1
Total BASELINE COSTS          2,021.77   1,049.88   3,071.65    243.09  126.10   369.19   26.0
Physical Contingencies            112.07     33.36    145.43      13.47    4.01    17.48   22.9
Price Contingencies               124.38      6.32    130.70      14.95    0.76    15.71    4.8
LOCContingency                    108.16     83.20    191.36      13.00   10.00    23.00   43.5
Total PROJECT COSTS           2,366.38   1,172.76   3,539.14    284.51  140.87   425.38   26.1
Interest during construction la    62.90     87.36    150.26       7.56   10.50    18.06   58.1
Incremental work capital          288.12      --      288.12      34.63    --      34.63    0.0
Total FINANCING REQUIRED  2,717.40   1,260.12   3,977.52    326.70  151.37   478.07    25.4
La Interest during construction is based on onlending rates for disbursements of both local currency and foreign
currency loans to CSSC and CISCG.
4.5     The base cost estimates for CSSC  of $105.9 million and for CISCG  of $69.0
million are expressed in January 31, 1996 prices. These estimates were prepared by the
Chongqing Iron and Steel Design Institute (CISDI). Civil works have been estimated
based on current actual construction costs. The machinery and equipment estimate is
based on detailed equipment lists and the latest international price quotations prepared by
CISDI and reviewed by international consultants. The exchange rate used to convert base
cost estimates from yuan to the dollar is Y 8.32 to $1.
4.6     Cost estimates for the Line-of-Credit Component are based on estimates made
during appraisal. Cost estimates of the TA component are based on historical costs of
international and local consultants, and off-the-shelf equipment prices in China.



- 33 -
C. FINANCING PLAN
4.7   The financing plan for the overall project is shown in Table 4.2. The proposed
Bank loan would cover about 36 percent of the total financing required, and would cover
100 percent of foreign exchange costs and 6 percent of local costs. Local banks would
provide the bulk of local currency financing, arnounting to 31 percent of total financing
required. Beneficiaries (CM, CSSC, CISCG and industrial borrowers) would provide 5,
9, 5 and 14 percent, respectively, of total financing.
TABLE 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(in $ million equivalent)
Percentage
Source                              Local   Foreign    Total   of Financing
World Bank                           18.5    151.4    170.0       35.6
CSSC                                 42.0       -      42.0         8.8
CISCG                                25.5       -      25.5         5.3
Domestic banks                      148.3       -      148.3       31.0
Industrial enterprises               69.0       -      69.0        14.4
CM                                   23.4       -      23.3         4.9
Total Financing Required         326.7    151.4    478.1       100.0
D. PROCUREMENT
4.8   CM has assigned the China National Instrument Import and Export Corporation
(CNIIEC) as the lead foreign trade agency to the project, and assigned two local trade
agencies, Southwest Technology Import and Export Corporation (CNTIC) and
Chongqing Machinery and Electrical Equipment Tendering Company (CQMEETC), to
work under CNIIEC. These procurement agencies are experienced and have the
necessary institutional capacity to manage the procurement under the project.
Procurement under the project will be in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement published in January 1995 and revised in January 1996. The model bidding
documents specifically prepared for China based on the Bank's standard documents will
be used for all procurement activities under the project. Table 4.3 summarizes the
procurement arrangements.



- 34 -
TABLE 4.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million)
Procurement Method
Project Component                               ICB           NCB          Others La       NBF 1h          Total
CSsc
Land and Civil Works                              -              -              -            24.8           24.8
Equipment (including freight and duties)        42.9            6.5           13.6           11.8           74.8
(42.9)         (6.5)          (6.2)                        (55.6)
Engineering /                                     -              -             4.0            2.0            6.0
Installation and Utilities                                                      -            19.4           19.4
Others (working capital increase and IDC)         -              -             6.4           30.4           36.8
(6.4)
Subtotal                                      42.9            6.5           24.0          88.4          161.8
(42.9)         (6.5)         (12.6)          (0.0)         (62.0)
CISCG/ZICC
Land and Civil Works                              -              -              -            14.3           14.3
Equipment (including freight and duties)        29.2            4.5           16.6            6.7           57.0
(29.2)         (4.5)          (4.2)                        (37.9)
Engineering L                                     -              -             3.0            1.0            4.0
Installation and Utilities                        -              -              -             7.8            7.8
Others (working capital increase and IDC)         -              -             4.1           11.8           15.9
(4.1)                        (4.1)
Subtotal                                      29.2            4.5          23.7           41.6           99.0
(29.2)         (4.5)          (8.3)          (0.0)         (42.0)
Credit Line
Industrial Subloans                             20.0             -            40.0          128.0          188.0
(20.0)                       (40.0)           -            (60.0)
Environmental Regulation
Working Capital Increase                          -              -              -            21.4           21.4
Equipment                                        3.4             -             1.5            0.9            5.8
(3.4)                        (1.5)                         (4.9)
Technical Assistance and Training                 -              -             0.3             -             0.3
(0.3)                         (0.3)
Subtotal                                       3.4            -             1.8           22.3           27.5
(3.4)                        (1.8)          (0.0)          (5.2)
Labor Reemployment Center
Buildings                                         -              -              -             0.5            0.5
Equipment and Materials                           -              -             0.5            -              0.5
(0.5)                        (0.5)
Technical Assistance and Training                 -              -             0.1            -              0.1
(t I)                        (0. 1)
Subtotal                                       -              -             0.6            0.5            1.1
(0.6)         (0.0)          (0.6)
State Asset Administration
Technical Assistance and Training                 -              -             0.1            -              0.1
(0.1)                        (0.1)
Working Capital Increase                          -              -             -              0.6            0.6
Subtotal                                       -             -              0.1            0.6            0.7
(0.1)         (0.0)          (0.1)
TOTAL                                         95.6           11.0          90.2          281.3          478.1
(95.6)        (11.0)         (63.4)          (0.0)        (170.0)
12   Other procurement methods include intemational and national shopping, direct contracting, consultants services, training, and
financing of Bank interest during construction.
a   NBF denotes non-Bank financing.
&    Engineering services constitute a part of the major equipment contracts.
Notes:  Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by the Bank; figures include contingencies and may not total exactly due
to rounding.
4.9      For the two environmental projects in the steel sector, procurement contracts have
been reviewed and those contracts to be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures have been identified. Contracts with an estimated value of $0.5
million and higher with an aggregate value of $29.2 million for CISCG and $42.9 million
for CSSC, would be procured under ICB. Contracts with aggregate values of $30.5



- 35 -
million for CSSC and $28.2 million for CISCG would be awarded through non-ICB
procedures. Contracts with an estimated value of $0.2 million and higher but below $0.5
million, with an aggregate value of $11 million, would be awarded through national
competitive bidding (NCB) procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Contracts with an
estimated value of less than $200,000 would be awarded through shopping procedures
(up to an aggregate value of $10 million for international shopping and $11 million for
national shopping); those contracts with an estimated value of $100,000 and higher
awarded after evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from at least three
qualified suppliers from at least two eligible countries; and those contracts with an
estimated value below $100,000 awarded after evaluation and comparison of quotations
solicited from at least three qualified suppliers. All ICB contracts with a value of $0.5
million and above would be subject to Bank prior review procedures, and all other
contracts would be subject to postreview, and CSSC and CISCG would retain all relevant
documents in their records for this purpose. All contractors bidding on contracts valued
at $10 million or above would be prequalified.
4.10  For the line of credit component, the PFIs would review the contract packages and
methods of procurement for the various industrial subprojects. The procedures for
procurement would be the same as those for Bank-financed China Investment Bank
projects, which the Bank has reviewed and found satisfactory. Individual contracts with
an estimated value of $5 million equivalent or above would be procured under ICB.
Contracts below $5 million, up to an aggregate value of $35 million, would be awarded
through national shopping procedures in accordance with the Bank's procurement
guidelines, after evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from at least three
qualified suppliers, except proprietary equipment, which would be procured by direct
contracting, subject to the Bank's prior agreement. The Bank's standard review and
approval procedures (from bidding documents to the contract awards) would be applied
to all ICB packages with a value of $5 million and above. All other procurement
contracts would be subject to postreview by the Bank, and PFIs would maintain all
relevant documents in their records for this purpose. PFIs would also be responsible for
the overall supervision of procurement by subborrowers.
4.11  Procurement of the goods (para. 3.25) for the CM project entities, including
CEPB, would be through ICB for contracts with an estimated value of $200,000 and
above. Contracts with an estimated value of less than $200,000 would be awarded
through shopping procedures, up to an aggregate value of $1,800,000. Contracts valued at
less than $100,000 would be awarded through national shopping procedures up to an
aggregate of $900,000. Contracts with an estimated value of $100,000 and higher would
be awarded after evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from at least three
qualified suppliers from at least two eligible countries; contracts with an estimated value
below $100,000 would be awarded after comparison of quotations solicited from at least
three qualified suppliers. A separate category for NCB has not been specified as all of the
items to be procured are expected to be imported for the CM project entities. All
procurement through shopping procedures, whether national or international, would be
carried out by one or more of the assigned trade agencies, and would be supervised by the



- 36 -
PMO. All ICB contracts with a value of $200,000 and above would be subject to Bank
prior review procedures. The PMO would be responsible for maintaining all necessary
procurement records to allow Bank postreview.
4.12   Local qualified bidders participating in ICB for procurement of goods would
receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the CIF price or the prevailing
custom duty applicable to nonexempt importers, whichever is the lower. The consultants
retained for technical assistance and training activities, with an aggregate value of $0.9
million, under the project (paras. 3.25-3.28) will be recruited in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by its Borrowers. Consultancy contracts
will follow the Bank's Standard Form of Contract for Consultant's Services, and with
firms above $100,000 and with individuals above $50,000, would be subject to Bank
prior review. Regardless of contract value, contracts below these amounts would be
subject to Bank prior review for termns of reference and single source selection of
consultant firms. Excluding the line of credit, about 76 percent of the loan proceeds
would be subject to prior review. This would not include any works contracts since they
are not financed under the Loan.
E. DISBURSEMENT
4.13   The Bank loan would be disbursed as follows: (a) for all components other than
the LOC, disbursement would be against: (i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
directly imported equipment and materials; (ii) 100 percent of local expenditures for
locally manufactured items on an ex-works basis; (iii) 75 percent of expenditures for
other items procured locally; (iv) 100 percent of the expenditure for consulting services
and training; and (v) 100 percent of interest during construction capitalized under the
subsidiary loan agreement with the steel companies accrued on or before June 20, 2001
and (b) for the LOC, disbursements would be made against 100 percent of amounts paid
under subloans.
4.14  To facilitate efficient disbursement, a special account in dollars with an authorized
allocation of $10 million (based on four months of average disbursements) would be
established. It would be replenished monthly or whenever the special account was drawn
down to 50 percent of its initial deposit, whichever occurred first. Disbursements for
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: goods contracts for
industrial relocation valued at less than $500,000 equivalent; goods contracts for
institutional strengthening valued at less than $200,000 equivalent; consulting services
contracts valued at less than $100,000 for firms and $50,000 for individuals; subloans;
interest during construction; and training expenditures. The project entities would retain
documents supporting the statements of expenditure and would make these documents
available for inspection and review  by Bank supervision missions.   All other
disbursements will be made against fully documented expenditures. The projected
disbursement schedule (Annex 4.1) is based on composite standard disbursement profiles
for urban and industrial projects in China.



-37 -
F. MONITORING AND REPORTING
4.15  Satisfactory procedures for monitoring, evaluating, and reporting on the project
have been agreed upon by CM, CSSC, CISCG and the PFIs. PMO would furnish the
Bank with semiannual and annual progress reports. The timely implementation of the
project is critical and depends on adequate financial resources being made available when
needed. For this reason, the annual project progress reports would include, inter alia,
project entities' proposals regarding project costs and financing plans for the following
year. The scope and content of the project progress reports have also been agreed on.
Given the complexity of this project, supervision requirements are likely to be higher
than the Bankwide average. An indicative Bank supervision plan is presented in Annex
412. Key performance indicators for project monitoring and reporting are described in
Table 3. 1.
G. ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
4.16 Separate project accounts would be maintained by all project entities concerned.
The PMO will consolidate financial reports on individual project components submitted
by entities concerned for inspection by Bank supervision missions.
4.17  Auditing of the proposed project will be conducted by the Chongqing Audit
Bureau under the guidance of State Audit Administration's Foreign Investment Audit
Bureau. This arrangement is satisfactory to the Bank. During negotiations, assurances
were received from CM that the following annual audited financial reports would be
submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of the financial year commencing
from 1996: (a) project accounts, including the auditor's opinion on the use of the Special
Account and statements of expenditures; and (b) financial statements of CSSC, CISCG
and the PFIs. Any significant errors that may have been discovered during the audit, and
any major weaknesses in internal controls, should be reflected in a management letter
submitted by the auditors to CM.



- 38 -
5. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT
5.1   The financial rate of return (FRR) for the Industrial Relocation Component was
calculated on an incremental basis, comparing a projected situation without the project
where it was assumed that the existing furnace capacity are either shut down (the case of
CISCG) or continue to operate without the new investment (the case of CSSC), with a
projected case that assumes that the new investment is installed. The profits from the
projected case without project are subtracted from the profits in the situation where the
project is developed. The incremental increase in profits is applicable to the investment
cost (including interest during construction and permanent working capital) of the new
facilities. The economic rate of return (ERR) for the investments is also calculated on an
incremental basis, and financial costs and benefit flows are adjusted, where appropriate,
to reflect improved environmental quality, as well as the economic opportunities forgone
or realized.
5.2   For the LOC component, no attempt was made to quantify the financial and
economic benefits, since the subprojects to be financed will be selected on a competitive
basis during project implementation. For the TA component, while the economic and
social benefits are expected to be significant, it was difficult to quantify them.
B. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF THE INDUSTRIAL RELOCATION COMPONENT
The Steel Market in China
5.3   Although the steel industry in China has turned in a remarkable performance by
increasing crude steel production from 66 million tons (Mt) in 1990 to 91.5 Mt in 1994,
expansion has not kept pace with demand, and China is now the world's largest importer
of steel. China's rolled steel imports amounted to 23 Mt in 1994 (about 25 percent of
apparent consumption), a peak year in imports second only to 1993 when 33 Mt of steel
products were imported. The Government forecasts that crude steel yearly production
will reach 120 Mt by the year 2000, while demand is expected to be about 180 Mt. In
fact, China will not become self-sufficient in the foreseeable future, and will have to rely
on sizable steel imports.
5.4   The steel industry in China was established through a central planning system
whereby each plant was assigned a product mix to serve a specific list of consumers. In
1993, the Government introduced market-oriented reforms in an attempt to reduce the
control of the Ministry of Metallurgical Industry over the industry, lift price controls,
reduce customs duties, and eliminate systems of licensing and quotas that distorted
foreign trade in the sector. At the same time, the Government started a process of reform



- 39 -
of state-owned enterprises, to establish a modem enterprise system that conforms with
market-economy practices. These reforms are pushing the enterprises into a market
environment. Most raw materials and finished products are sold at market prices, while
enterprises are given the right to sell increasing portions of their output to unassigned
customers.
5.5   Steel prices were liberalized in early 1993, in a context of strong demand and
severe shortages, which led to sharp rises in price levels. Demand growth and prices
eased in 1994, as a result of the Government's economic austerity program and the
reimposition of managed prices in April 1994, in the form of "guiding" prices for 10 steel
products designed to control inflationary pressures. Steel companies' shipment prices can
now only fluctuate on a band of 10 percent from the guiding prices. After the
speculative boom of 1993, the Chinese steel market hit a low point in 1994 but is now
recovering, with prices on the rise. Current market prices are still below the top bracket
of these "guidelines."
5.6    Domestic competition is reduced by the fact that China is geographically a large
country and still backward in transportation. The major factor affecting the companies'
price behavior is import competition, i.e. the landed import price of similar categories of
steel products. At present, CSSC's and the ZICC plant production costs are a little higher
than the world average for the similar range of products. Nevertheless, due to transport
costs, their domestic selling prices compare favorably with average production costs and
are comfortably below foreign import prices for similar products delivered to Chongqing.
5.7   The Government is progressively opening the domestic market to international
competition. Import quotas and licenses for steel were eliminated in 1994. Current
tariffs on imported steel for CSSC's and CISCG's products range from 5 percent on
semifinished products like billets to 15 percent in reinforcing bar, which is still high by
international standards. In addition, there is a value-added tax of 17 percent on all
domestic and foreign products based on the price including the import tariff.
Improvement in Productivity and Operating Efficiency
5.8   The restructuring of CSSC's organization and physical facility will improve its
productivity and operating efficiency. Such improvements can be quantified in terms of
the value-added increase and the increase in value-added per employee as shown in Table
5.1.



- 40 -
TABLE 5.1: EFFICIENCY GAINS, 1993 AND 2002
CSSC                  CISCG
1994      2002          1994      2002
Value-added (Y million)                335        435         1,349    1,394
No. of employees                    18,278     17,578       49,167    35,555
Value-added per employee (Y'000)      18.3       24.8         27.4       39.2
5.9   The efficiency gains resulting from the project arise primarily in the following
areas:
(a)   CSSC's move to better quality and higher value-added products;
(b)   closing down a obsolete and inefficient plant; and
(c)   investment in environmentally effective equipment that will greatly reduce
consumption of inputs like energy and electrodes.  Considering their
advantages in terms of high yield, energy saving, and adequate
environmental controls, state-of-the-art technologies like the EAF, the
refining ladle and the continuous cast machine are seen as key elements to
modernize the steel industry in China.
5.10  At present, CSSC cannot meet quality specifications for special steel products.
As a result, over the past five years, its output has shifted to carbon steel (35 percent of
total production in 1990, 48 percent in 1994), where quality requirements are lower. The
new plant would improve quality and lower production costs, enabling CSSC to return to
specialty steel production (mainly gear steel, spring steel and free-cutting steel), where
the company has a strong market share and can have a significant impact in the
automotive, railway and machinery sectors.
5.11   Currently ZICC is not capable of making the quality or type of semifinished steel
most in demand, and its current operations are a threat to the safety of workers and to the
general public. The new plant will produce a different product mix. The type of billets/
wire rods to be produced are carbon and alloy construction steels, welding wire, cold
heading steel, and high-quality carbon steel. These type of steels are important to the
construction industry and machinery and automobile producers.
5.12  The alternative of not replacing CSSC's and ZICC's old steel-making shops is not
environmentally sound or economic because of unacceptable levels of pollution,
declining quality of output at both enterprises, the additional foreign exchange required to
import cast billets for the companies' rolling mills, and the higher costs of transporting
landed imports to Chongqing.



-41 -
Assumptions for the Financial Analysis
5.13   The base cost estimates for the investments, expressed in January 1996 prices,
were derived from estimates prepared by the project entities and CISDI, in collaboration
with international consultants. Physical contingencies are calculated at 10 percent of the
base costs estimates. Price escalation for foreign costs was calculated on the basis of
anticipated annual international price movements of 3 percent. Price escalation for costs
expressed in terms of local currency is calculated on the basis of projected local inflation
rates of 10.5 percent for 1996, 8.5 percent for 1997, 7.0 percent for 1998, 6.5 percent for
1999, and 6.2 percent thereafter. Imported equipment and materials would be subject to
tariff duties.
5.14  The financial projections use prevailing selling prices and input costs in real terms
over the economic life of the project. Net sales revenue was calculated after deducting
the value-added tax. CSSC's old steel shop is expected to be closed in the first quarter of
1999, while the new plant is being commissioned. In either case (with or without
projects) ZICC's remaining EAF is expected to be shut down in 1998. Capacity
utilization of the new CSSC facilities is assumed at 50 percent in the first full year of
operation, 85 percent the second year and 100 percent thereafter, and for the new CISCG
facilit ,-s at 50 percent the first year and 100 percent thereafter. Fixed assets were
depreciated using the straight-line method over 20 years.
Financial Rates of Return (FRR)
5.15   The financial analysis indicates that CSSC's project will generate a positive
financial rate of return of 17 percent (see Table 5.2) and a net present value of $51
million. The project is most sensitive to declines in sales revenues. A combined 10
percent drop in average selling prices, a 10 percent increase in operating costs, plus a 20
percent increase in capital costs reduce the FRR to 11 percent, which still represents a
comfortable risk margin for changes in the economic environment of the project.
CISCG's project is a little more vulnerable to changes in the economic conditions.
Starting with positive financial rate of return of 17 percent, the combined "worst case"
scenario would bring the project's FRR to 10 percent. Both projects are more sensitive to
declines in steel prices. However, selling prices would have to decline by 20 percent in
the case of CSSC and 24 percent for CISCG to make the net present value turn negative
at a discount rate of 11 percent (the base standard FRR used in China).
TABLE 5.2: FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN (FRR)-SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
CSSC             CISCG
0. Base-case scenario                               17%               17%
1. Selling price: -10%                              15%               14%
2. Operating costs: +10%                            16%               15%
3. Capital cost increase: +20%                      15%               14%
4. "Worst case" scenario (1+2+3 together)           11%               10%



- 42 -
Future Finances of the Companies
5.16  CSSC and CISCG, like other large firms in China, have adopted general
accounting systems in accordance to international standard practices, and their accounts
are periodically inspected by city tax authorities and the municipal government auditing
bureau. CSSC's and CISCG's financial situation have been affected by the austerity
program established by the Central Government in 1993. Credit has been severely
tightened resulting in a "triangular debt crisis." Customers cannot pay invoices for steel
shipped and steel suppliers have experienced significant increases in accounts receivable.
The offsetting liability is an increase in short-term debt to finance working capital and
accounts payable.
5.17  By June 30, 1995, CSSC faced a major liquidity problem.  With accounts
receivable and short-term liabilities increasing rapidly in 1995, CSSC was forced to
increase its short-term debt to the equivalent of almost one year of sales. In addition,
CSSC has been unable to meet international quality specifications for special steel
products and has moved to lower value-added products (para. 5.10). CM has reached
agreement with CSSC on a financial restructuring to bring its debt service obligations in
line with projected cash flow until the full startup of the new installations (para. 5.19).
After the relocation, CSSC's profitability should improve. Net income, as a percentage
of sales, should improve from 2 to 9 percent when the project reaches full production by
2001.
5.18  CISCG's profitability will also improve under the project, and net income, as a
percentage of sales, should improve from 2 to 5 percent when the project reaches full
production by 2002. When CISCG became a limited liability company in 1995, it was
authorized to convert into equity a significant portion of its debt, and this allowed the
company to keep its total debt within reasonable levels. Total indebtedness will improve
further with the project, and total debt-to-equity is expected to decline from 73:28 in 1994
to 42:58 in 2002. However, during 1996-98 costs will rise faster than revenues and debt
repayments will increase substantially (about $126 million equivalent will be due banks
over the three-year period), and CISCG will be unable to meet the proposed debt service
covenant under the project, without an injection of new equity to enable the company to
achieve the required debt service coverage of 1.2 (para. 5.19).
5.19  By the end of 1995, CSSC had proceeded with a financial restructuring of its
Balance Sheet, by means of a conversion into equity of Y 250 million of debt and accrued
liabilities. Details of the operation are as follows: conversion into equity of (a) Y 223.5
million of accrued liabilities (unpaid taxes) and (b) Y 32.1 million of long-term State and
Municipal loans (for technical renovation). The financial restructuring-together with
the fact that actual 1995 results were better than the forecasts presented to the Bank
during appraisal-has substantially improved the financial-situation of the company.
Financial projections prepared by the Bank now indicate that CSSC should be in a
position to comply with the financial covenants of the project. During negotiations,
assurances were received that CM will provide additional equity (i) not later than



- 43 -
December 31, 1999 to CSSC of Y250 million, (ii) unless otherwise agreed, not later than
December 31, 1997 to CISCG of Y 140 million and (iii) thereafter, provide the steel
companies with such additional equity as shall be needed to carry out their five-year
investment plans. As a condition of disbursement for the CSSC relocation, CSSC will
provide additional equity and/or debt financing with a maturity of at least six years in an
aggregate amount of at least $53,733,400 equivalent. Additional assurances were
obtainedfrom CSSC and CISCG that they will: (a) furnish the Bank with audited annual
financial statements within six months of the end of each fiscal year, (b) maintain a
debt/equity ratio of 70:30 or better; (c) maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least
1. 2; and (d) furnish to the Bank for review, by October 31 of each year from 1996 to the
year 2002, rolling five-year financial plans, including projected income statements,
sources and uses offunds and balance sheets, and supported by production, marketing
and investment plans, including: (i) a detailed analysis of production cost trends and
inventory levels; (ii) analysis of operational and financial budget variances for the
current fiscal year; and (iii) financing arrangements for the investments proposed over
the five-year period
C. ECONOMIC BENEFITS OF THE INDUSTRIAL RELOCATION COMPONENT
Assumptions for the Economic Analysis
5.20  The main assumptions used in determining the ERR for the industrial relocation
component are similar to those used in the financial analysis with some adjustments.
Economic capital costs expressed in January 1996 prices were obtained from the financial
base capital costs after: (a) deduction of duties and taxes on equipment and spare parts;
and (b) provision for the opportunity costs of land of the Jinkou farm, site of the CSSC
relocation, based on intensive cotton production, which has a higher rate of return than its
present use (less intensive orange growing and dairy production), and no land acquisition is
required for the new ZICC plant.
5.21  The real prices of inputs and outputs in economic terms were assumed to remain
unchanged at their end-1995 levels over the life of the projects, except for a I percent
annual increase in scrap due to a long-term trend in rising demand, which-will compel
producers to rely increasingly on higher cost imported scrap. The economic price of steel
was derived from its projected international spot price in the East-Asian market, delivered
to a Chinese port. Import parity prices were calculated by adding unloading, port handling,
and economic inland freight from the port to the main consuming units in the Chongqing
region. The economic value of imported tradable inputs (like steel scrap) was based on
their projected international FOB prices, plus marine freight from their point of origin to
a Chinese port, plus economic inland freight to the plant sites in Chongqing. The
economic costs of exportable inputs (like pig iron and ferroalloys) were derived by
deducting from the FOB export price at a Chinese port the economic inland freight prices
between the steel companies' sites and the port, and by adding the economic inland
transportation costs between the plants and the consuner centers. The main transfer point
(ocean to river) is the port of Nanjing on the Yangtze River. The total freight charges



- 44 -
from Chongqing to Nanjing are $20.00 per ton, In economic terms, these charges are
three times higher (para. 5.22).
5.22  Nontradable inputs were converted to their economic value by applying specific
shadow prices: (a) electricity is valued at its long-run marginal costs in China, and the
tariff was therefore increased to Y 0.37 ($0.044) per kWh; (b) no shadow wage rates were
used for labor, since wages plus nonoperational expenses already reflect the cost to the
company of the social services provided to its labor force, including housing, education,
hospitals, social security (pensions and unemployment, accident and health insurance), food
services and fuel and retail outlets; (c) railfreight tariffs were adjusted from an average of
$0.01 per kilometer to the estimated economic costs of $0.03 per kilometer.
Economic Rates of Return (ERR)
5.23  As in the financial projection, the economic rate of return for the two companies
are estimated for a base-case scenario. Three sensitivity tests, summarized in Table 5.3,
have been undertaken to assess the impact of deviations from basic key assumptions, that
is, a 10 percent reduction in sales revenue, a 10 percent increase in operating costs, and a
20 percent increase in capital costs. A "worst case" scenario has been added, reflecting
the compound effect of these three sensitivities.
5.24  Under this approach CSSC's project generates a positive Economic Internal Rate
of Return of 24 percent. A combined 10 percent drop in average selling prices and a 10
percent increase in operating costs, plus a 20 percent increase in capital costs, reduce the
ERR to 15 percent, which represents a comfortable margin if the economic environment
of the project changes. CISCG's project has a lower ERR (20 percent). Its main risk lies
in the decline of the market price for steel below projected levels. The "worst case"
scenario would still imply in a positive ERR of 12 percent. Given (a) the strong and
sustained demand growth for steel in China, which is expected to extend into the first
decade of the twenty-first century, (b) the likelihood that domestic production will continue
to be unable to meet demand, and (c) the geographic protection against foreign imports
provided by Chongqing's inland location, it is likely that output prices will remain
favorable over the life of the project, and that price fluctuations over the short term
represent an acceptable risk.
TABLE 5.3: ECONOMic RATE OF RETURN (ERR}SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
CSSC             CISCG
0. Base-case scenario                            24%               20%
1. Selling price: -10%                          20%                17%
2. Operating costs: +10%                         22%               18%
3. Capital cost increase: +10%                  21%                17%
4. "Worst case" scenario" (1+2+3 together)       15%               12%



- 45 -
D. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS OF THE INDUSTRIAL RELOCATION COMPONENT
5.25  EAs have been completed for both steel plant relocations. They were prepared by
CISDI, reviewed by the Bank, and approved by NEPA. Copies of both approved EAs
have been submitted to the Board. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
CSSC and CISCG that they would implement the findings of their respective EIAs.
5.26  CSSC Relocation. CSSC is situated on the Jialing River in the densely populated
Shapingba district. Ambient dust levels in this area are about 570 micrograms/Nm3
(World Bank guidelines consider values above 100 micrograms/Nm3 polluted). On
average, about 44 percent of the dust pollution and 7 percent of SO2 emissions in this
district are caused by the steel plant. It is also responsible for 19 percent of industrial
wastewater discharges in the district (including 58 percent of the chemical oxygen demand
and 89 percent of the oil and grease). The plant also produces 50,000 tons/year of slag, of
which less than I percent is recycled, and is simply dumped on the banks of the Jialing
River, leaving an unstable tip of 700,000 tons, which periodically slips into the river.
Because of the increased production, the new plant is expected to produce 39 percent more
slag than the old plant, but 87 percent will be reusable. A slag processing plant to be built
on the old site to recycle the slag and clean up the river bank, significantly reducing the
solid waste problem and making it manageable and environmentally acceptable.
5.27  Because of their age, condition and location, the equipment cannot be retrofitted
with necessary pollution control equipment to comply with environmental discharge
standards. The existing facility has been identified by CEPB as a priority pollution
source (based on the annual mass discharge of pollution), and by the steel industry as the
highest priority polluter in their sector strategy for pollution control (based upon impacts
to human health).
5.28  Installation of the modem steel-making facilities at the Jinkou Farm site, with the
pollution control systems listed below, will increase ambient levels of dust and S02 by
less than 0. 1 percent and nitrogen oxides by about 4 percent.
*  Second-hole evacuation and baghouse for dust control from the EAF, and the
refining furnace;
*  Dust and S02 control from a proprietary scrubber of Chinese design, sanitary
and industrial wastewater control facilities to remove suspended solids, oil and
grease, chemical oxygen demand, biological oxygen demand, decreased water
use (35 percent), increased water recycling (92 percent); and
* Slag reprocessing facility to handle new slag and diminish existing slag pile.
5.29  A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for the CSSC investment prepared prior to
appraisal includes resettlement of 3,018 individuals in 1,014 households.   A
socioeconomic survey of all 1,014 households on the affected site (Jinkou Farm) was
subsequently carried out, and the RAP was revised during appraisal to take into account



- 46 -
the results of the survey. The survey clarified that: (a) 100 percent of the affected
households were headed by CSSC employees; (b) non-CSSC workers are all family
members in these households, and their incomes are all derived from sources outside
Jinkou Farm, and therefore their livelihoods would not be affected by the project; (c) no
additional impacts had occurred; and (d) survey data provide an adequate baseline of
living standards and incomes to enable monitoring and evaluation of resettlement
progress. The PMO has established a resettlement unit to: (i) ensure that resettlement
policies and procedures are followed; (ii) provide coordination and liaison with
stakeholders, (iii) supervise mitigating actions, monitor RAP perforrnance indicators and
evaluate implementation progress; and (iv) provide periodic reports to the Central
Government and the Bank.
5.30  Personal income will increase substantially because steel mill salaries are two-to-
four times farm wages. A 38,000 m2 apartment complex will be built, equal to the area of
the dismantled housing, with modem plumbing, lighting, heating (natural gas). Existing
housing is mostly without these services, and depends on polluting high-sulfur coal for
heating and cooking. Workers will have access to other services (medical, middle and
vocational education) and benefits (retirement, social security) not available before the
project. During appraisal, agreement was reached on terms of reference, selection criteria
and procedures for an external monitor for the RAP. CM approved the revised RAP on
December 25, 1995 and a contract was signed on December 29, 1995 with Yuzhou
University for the external monitoring of the RAP. The survey of affected people and
summary of resettlement impacts, TORs for external monitoring, as well as the
organizational structure, policies and procedures for resettlement are contained in Annex
3.AQ. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from CSSC that it will carry out
resettlement at the Jinkou Farm in accordance with the RAP agreed with the Bank
5.31   ZICC Relocation. The plant is located in the Jiang Bei District on the north bank
of the Jialing River in one of the most densely populated (35,000 persons/krn2) and
highly polluted sections of the city. Ambient dust pollution in this area is about 520
micrograms/Nm3 (World Bank guidelines consider values above 100 micrograms/Nm3
polluted). On the average, about 22 percent of the ambient dust levels are the result of
dust emissions from this plant. The ZICC plant releases 63 percent of all industrial dust
emissions, 19 percent of all NO, emissions and 17 percent of total industrial wastewater
discharges in this district. Also, 43,700 tons of slag are produced annually, none of
which is recycled. It should also be noted that the untreated wastewater discharges are
released 1,800 meters upstream of one of the main drinking water intakes for CM.
5.32  Because of their age, condition, and location, the furnaces cannot be retrofitted
with necessary pollution control equipment to comply with environmental discharge
standards. The existing facility has been identified by CEPB as a priority pollution
source in CM (based on the annual mass discharge of pollution), and by the steel industry
as the second highest priority in their sector strategy for pollution control (based on
impacts to human health).



- 47 -
5.33  Installation of the modem steel-making operation at the Dadukou steel complex,
with the pollution controls listed below, will not result in any increases to ambient air
pollution at the relocation site. Negligible emissions generated by the new facilities will
be more than offset by shutdown of several small furnaces currently operating at the new
site. In fact, there will be a net decrease in ambient dust levels of about 8 percent at the
new site. Since the new site is part of existing production operations, there are no
resettlement issues. Equipment to be acquired include:
* Large baghouse for dust control from the EAF, refining furnace, and furnace
hood exhaust gases;
* Cyclone separators at all solids transfer points, closed water recirculation
system for EAF, refining furnace, vacuum degasser, and casting facilities,
including solids separation, oil skimming, chemical treatment;
* Sanitary wastewater treatment facilities;
* Noise suppression; and
* Recovery and recycle of about 84 percent of the slag.
5.34   Other Benefits.   Improved  environmental management, monitoring  and
regulation is a prerequisite for the planning, design, and enforcement of measures to
improve air and water quality and the safe disposal of wastes. The air and water
monitoring networks and hazardous waste management and disposal techniques
supported under the project will be essential elements in establishing an overall industrial
pollution control plan, and an important tool for CEPB in applying existing regulations
and in collecting hard data on which to base planning for more effective regulation.
Establishing CEPB's capability for industrial environmental audits is also a key part of
making the regulatory system more effective. The project would help accelerate the pace
of overall reform in Chongqing. The specific benefits expected include: (a) strengthening
CM's environmental regulatory policy and incentive structure and achieving more
environmentally sustainable industrial growth; (b) initiating improvement of environmental
conditions in the city center; (c) establishing a pilot program for market-based SOE reform,
to enhance enterprise productivity, efficiency and capacity to meet environmental standards;
(d) creating an independent restructuring capability to achieve more rapid industrial
transformation; and (e) introducing new initiatives in state asset management and surplus
labor redeployment.
5.35   During negotiations, assurances were obtainedfrom CSSC and CISCG that any
future use of the sites of the steel plants being closed down would be in accordance with
applicable environmental standards.
5.36   Sustainability. Project investments are expected to be financially sustainable.
CSSC's and CISCG's plant production costs are now slightly higher than the world
average for a similar range of products, but, due to transport costs, their domestic selling



- 48 -
prices compare favorably with average production costs or are comfortably below foreign
import prices for similar products delivered to Chongqing. The profitability of both
plants is expected to improve after relocation, and financial analysis indicates financial
rates of return of 17 percent for both plants. While analysis shows sensitivity to declines
in steel prices, selling prices would have to decline by 20 percent for CSSC and 24
percent for CISCG to make the net present value turn negative at a discount rate of 11
percent. Subprojects to be financed by the line of credit should also be financially
sustainable since their approval would require satisfactory environmental assessments
and restructuring plans demonstrating the technical feasibility, market potential and
financial viability of the proposed investments, as well as the firms' creditworthiness.
Sustainability of the institutional and policy reforms to be introduced cannot be so easily
assured. However, an acceptable basis for continued reform is promised by CM's
commitment to reform coupled with covenanted performnance objectives and project
support for: preparing an Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan; establishing an EAU
in CEPB and strengthening its enforcement capacity; and providing restructuring
advisory facilities to help enterprises meet both commercial and environmental
objectives.
E. MAJOR PROJECT RISKS
5.37   CM has made a strong commitment to implement the project and to undertake the
major reforms involved. Nevertheless, the very depth of the agreed reform program gives
rise to a major risk that CM may be unable to maintain the political will to carry through
the full range of reforms. Reducing this risk is project conditionality on implementation
of the reform action plans, agreed performance indicators, maintenance of a strong
project management organization, and the mid-term review with its potential to
reinvigorate the reform progress if needed. A sustained commitment to industrial
pollution control and reform would also justify the Bank's consideration of a follow-up
operation. The political risk is in any case considered justified in view of the serious
pollution situation demanding immediate action on many fronts, the potential benefits of the
reforms for CM and their demonstration effects for other Chinese municipalities. A second
significant risk relates to the commitment of the PFIs to implement the line-of-credit
component. Chinese banks are now responsible for their own profitability and asset quality,
and have become reluctant to take on additional risks. The project mitigates the risk of
lagging PFI participation by establishing restructuring advisory facilities to help enterprises
prepare viable restructuring plans for PFI review, and by fostering a continuing dialogue
between PFIs and consultants operating the facilities.
5.38   The risk posed by the counterparts' lack of experience in implementing a Bank-
financed project, particularly CEPB, which will require strong political support to
improve regulatory performance, would be mitigated by the leadership of CM's senior
officials, under the direction of the PLG, the commitment of stakeholders, and intensive
Bank monitoring and supervision, particularly in the early project stages. The challenge
of coordinating this rather complex project would similarly benefit from CM's political
commitment and leadership as well as continuing Bank oversight and support. A risk



- 49 -
inherent in a transition economy is delays and cost increases in implementing industrial
pollution control and enterprise restructuring, especially considering the debt burden of
most SOEs and therefore the need for debt restructuring. This risk is being addressed by
the RAFs, through their assistance to enterprises in preparing sound financial
restructuring plans. Finally, the risk that Chongqing's financial system will be unable to
mobilize sufficient counterpart resources has been minimized by requiring each PFI to
estimate carefully its capability to marshal counterpart funds and to prepare a
corresponding estimate of foreign exchange required from the line of credit. There are no
significant technical risks in the industrial relocation component. The proposed electric-
arc furnace steel-making technology has been in use for some time in developed as well
as developing countries. Moreover, assuming sustained growth of the Chinese economy,
there appears to be sufficient demand to accommodate the two projects' planned capacity.



- 50 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1   During negotiations, CSSC and CISCG submitted letters confirming that the
feasibility studies for the relocation of these companies consist of (a) the studies prepared
by the Chongqing Iron and Steel Design Institute and CSSC and CISCG, and
(b) Annexes 3.9-3.1 1 of the SAR as revised during negotiations (para. 3.12).
6.2   The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
(a)   From the Borrower that it would make available the proceeds of the
proposed Bank loan to CM, on termns and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 4.2).
(b)   From CM that it would:
(i)   carry out an iron and steel sector pollution control plan satisfactory
to the Bank as part of the economic policy agenda of the project
(para. 3.7);
(ii)   prepare an industrial pollution control strategy and action plan
satisfactory to the Bank, submit the plan to the Bank not later than
December 31, 1998, and implement it thereafter (para. 3.9);
(iii)   carry  out an  environmental regulatory  enforcement plan
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3. 10);
(iv)   furnish the Bank with annual progress reports by July 30, on
project implementation and meeting performance indicators (para.
3.31), as well as on CM's environmental status, including the
status of all environmental action plans, and the CSSC RAP (para.
3.1 0);
(v)    provide  the  physical facilities, staffing  requirements  and
operational budget for the Surplus Labor Employment and
Training Center (para. 3.26);
(vi)   by March 31, 1999 prepare a mid-term report and hold a mid-term
review to assess progress in meeting project objectives (para.
3.31);



- 51 -
(vii)    carry out the institutional strengthening of CM's agencies under
the project in accordance with a time-bound program satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 3.29).
(viii)    maintain the PLG  and PMO  with staffing, composition and
functions satisfactory to the Bank, including a resettlement unit,
and by December 31, 1996, establish an environmental unit (para.
3.3 1);
(ix)    onlend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to PFIs for 20
years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard interest rate for
LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans (para. 4.2);
(x)    onlend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to CSSC and
CISCG for a term of 12 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency
loans plus a spread of 1.2 percent (para. 4.2);
(xi)    furnish the Bank with the audited project accounts within six
months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.17); and
(xii)    not later than December 31, 1999, provide additional equity to
CSSC of Y 250 million (para. 5.19); not later than December 31,
1997, and unless otherwise agreed, provide additional equity to
CISCG of Y 140 million and thereafter provide the steel
companies with such additional equity as shall be needed to carry
out their five-year investment plans (para. 5.19).
(c)    From CSSC and CISCG that they would:
(i)    carry  out a program  of closure, physical relocation  and
restructuring  of  production  facilities  and  their  financial
restructuring, according to the feasibility studies agreed with the
Bank (para. 5.19);
(ii)    furnish the Bank with independently audited annual financial
statements within six months of the end of each fiscal year (para.
5.19);
(iii)    maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.2 times and a
debt:equity ratio of 70:30 (para. 5.19);
(iv)    furnish to the Bank, by October 31 of each year, a rolling five-year
financial plan containing (a) projected income statements,
statements of sources and uses of fumds, and balance sheets; (b) a
detailed analysis of trends in production costs and inventory levels;



- 52 -
(c) an analysis of operational and financial performance vis-a-vis
planned targets; and (d) financing arrangements proposed over the
five-year period (para. 5.19);
(v)    implement their respective ElAs (para. 5.25); and
(vi)    carry out future activities at the sites of the steel plants being
closed down in accordance with environmental standards
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.35).
(d)    From CSSC that it would carry out resettlement at the Jinkou Farm site in
accordance with the agreed upon RAP (para. 5.30).
(e)    From PFIs that they would:
(i)    by December 31, 1996, adopt training programs to strengthen their
institutional capabilities in credit policy, procedures and analysis,
and project appraisal and supervision (para. 3.20);
(ii)   furnish the Bank with independently audited annual financial
statements within six months of the end of each fiscal year (para.
3.20);
(iii)    appraise subprojects in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 3.24); and
(iv)    make subloans in accordance with procedures and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.24)
(f)    Not later than one month after the effective date, CM would:
(i)    establish an EAU with TORs, staffing and resources acceptable to
the Bank (para. 3.25); and
(ii)    provide the Bank with a satisfactory  signed contract with
international consultants to train the staff of the EAU (para. 3.25).
6.3    As conditions of Loan effectiveness, CM would:
(a)    adopt a plan satisfactory to the Bank for implementing the SO2 levy
system in Chongqing (para. 3.10); and
(b)   CM  and the steel companies and CM  and the PFIs would execute
subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.3).



- 53 -
6.4    As a condition of disbursement of Part B.1 (CSSC relocation), CSSC would
provide additional equity and/or debt financing, with a maturity of at least six years, in an
aggregate amount of at least $53,733,400 equivalent (para. 5.19).
6.5    Based on the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for a loan
of $170 million for a period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans, to the People's Republic
of China.






- 55 -                      ANNEX 2.1
ANNEX 2.1: CHONGQING'S ECONOMIC STRUCTURE
A. STATE ASSET MANAGEMENT
1.    Basic legislation required for reform of state asset management is in place, and
policy direction from the National Administrative Bureau of State-Owned Property is
provided to clarify property rights and the transfer and disposition of state assets. Still,
municipalities retain some discretion in establishing procedures and making institutional
arrangements for administering state assets.  Chongqing's state asset management
structure follows the national multitiered pattern: a State Asset Management Committee
(SAMC) headed by the Mayor and including 14 heads of CM departments and line
bureaus, which sets policy and appoints managers.   District and county-level
governments have identical structures. The policy framework is set out in CM Document
170, entitled "Opinions on State Asset Management System Reform Experiment," July
23, 1994.
(a)   The State Asset Management Bureau (SAMB). The policy decisions of
SAMC are carried out by its executive arm, SAMB, a separate CM
department with a staff of 30. The current head is also a Deputy Director
of the Finance Bureau.  Under SAMC  are three forms of asset
organization:   State Asset Operating  Companies (SAOC), Group
Enterprises (GE) and very large enterprises (primarily infrastructure).
SAMB's broad mandate includes (a) coordinating information between
SAMC and the enterprises, (b) setting indicators and incentive structures
for SAOC performance, (c) recommending management appointments and
dismissals, (d) representing the state shares in LLCs and LLSCs; (e)
registering state assets; (f) approving mergers and other transfers of state
assets; (g) drafting local regulations for state asset management; and
(h) authorizing individuals and legal entities to manage or dispose of state
assets.
(b)   The Supervisory Committees (SC). To implement the 1994 regulations,
SAMB intends to establish an SC for each major entity reporting directly
to it. Each SC is required to have 15 members serving a term of three
years, and on behalf of SAMB, inspects enterprises to ascertain
implementation of relevant laws and regulations.
(c)    The State Asset Operating Companies (SAOC). According to CM
Document 170 (1994), SAOCs in CM are entities established under the
Company Law with SAMB as the founder, organized according to three
forms:  (i) companies formed from  line bureaus and other agencies;



- 56 -                     ANNEX 2.1
(ii) companies that are existing large enterprises, corporatized and then
"entrusted" with the management of shares, and (iii) assets of smaller
enterprises and companies, and existing investment companies to be
"entrusted" with shares or assets of companies and enterprises.  The
purpose of SAOCs is to separate the functions of government as owner,
manager and regulator of enterprises; to create a more competitive
environment to strengthen the enterprises, and support development of a
modem enterprise system. Two SAOCs, Huamao and Huajin, were
established in 1994, and three to five more were planned for 1995.
(d)   Group Companies. Three existing large enterprises were approved for
"entrustment of state assets" in the form of group companies: China Silian
Instrument Group, Chongqing Iron and Steel Group, and Huaxi (West
China) Packing Group. Quinling Auto Group and the Chongqing Special
Steel Group are soon to be approved for this status.  These group
companies act as holding companies and as management agents for CM
assets in a large number of smaller enterprises with various ownership
structures and degrees of functional relationships.
(e)   Property Rights Transaction Center. Pursuant to CM Document 200 of
1994, a Property Right Transaction Center is to be established under the
direction of Chongqing's System Reform Commission. The Center will
act as intermediary in the transfer of all forms of property rights through
public auctions, tenders, leases, and trading.  The Center intends to
encourage (but not require) use of its services for private transfers, and
would act as agent for the state in liquidation of bankrupt state enterprises.
It would develop procedures for documenting and registering property
transfers and would also train independent intermediaries to carry out
transfers. The scope of the Center's activities is ambitious but its priorities
are not clear.
B. SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM AND THE LABOR MARKET
2.    CM initiated social security reform in October 1986 by establishing three municipal
pension funds (urban enterprises, rural enterprises, and civil servants) that currently cover
practically all industrial and trade, and service workers in Chongqing. In 1990, CM
developed a plan for a unified social security system to include four separate funds
covering pension, medical, unemployment and industrial injury under a single Social
Security Administration (SSA). The three pension funds, which will be integrated under
SSA in 1997, supported some 400,000 retired workers in 1993, and are responsible for
paying 70 percent of enterprise retirees' pensions, with the balance remaining as an
obligation of the enterprises. A industrial injury insurance fund will be established before
the end of 1995, and unemployment and medical insurance funds will be implemented in
1997.



- 57 -                     ANNEX 2.1
3.   In 1992, an Unemployment Insurance (Ul) program was introduced, which is
funded by a I percent enterprise payroll tax and a 2 yuan per month employee
contribution. Presently about 1,500,000 workers are covered by UI, mainly in the SOEs
and urban cooperatives. In 1994, 7,650 individuals received unemployment benefits and
as of June 1995, there were just under 10,000 recipients. It is estimated that the number
of UI recipients will increase to about 20,000 by the end of 1995. The benefit payment
ranges between Y 86 and Y1 50 per month-depending on the individual's wages, other
social payments, and length of employment-with the average monthly wage around
Y 220 per month. The maximum period of unemployment benefits is 24 months and
presently the average length of payment is 18 months. In 1994 expenditures from the UI
fund were:  57 percent unemployment benefits including 10 percent for medical
insurance; 15 percent job training; 15 percent job creation; 8 percent administrative costs;
5 percent contingency funds. Although the UI fund has been running a modest surplus, in
1995 it is expected to break even. Problems are being encountered in collecting the
I percent UI enterprise payroll tax and there are difficulties in establishing an accurate
payroll base upon which to apply the 1 percent levy. In 1993 only about 75 percent of the
UI contributions that were due were actually collected.
4.   In 1994, Chongqing municipality had a total work force was 8.5 million, of whom
2.1 million, or 25 percent, were state workers and staff, including 1.5 million in SOEs
and 539,000 in urban collectives. Private enterprises employed 45,000 workers and
another 152,000 were self-employed. Rural collectives and self-employment involved
614,400 workers. Contract workers numbered about 400,000, with 77 percent employed
in SOEs.  The remaining contract workers were about equally divided between
collectives and other enterprises. Most of the contract workers were in manufacturing,
58 percent, or in commerce, 12 percent.
5.    Unemployment, as officially reported, is relatively modest in CM. In 1994 there
were about 60,000 reported unemployed, an official unemployment rate of 2.76 percent.
The Chongqing Labor Bureau (CLB) projects that unemployment at the end of 1995 will
be around 70,000, or 3 percent. The projected 3 percent official unemployment rate
reflects an implicit policy of "no dismissals that create higher levels of unemployment."
An example of this policy is the constraint placed on restructuring SOEs that no more
than 2 percent annually of their work force may be made redundant. Even so, as there are
1.5 million employees in SOEs overall, the number of workers involved could be as high
as 30,000, although not all would necessarily become unemployed. A wide range of
steps can be taken by SOEs under the "Measures on Redeploying Surplus Workers in
State-Owned Enterprises," which would outplace or alternatively employ redundant
workers, as well as provide for early retirement or forms of extended leave with some
payment. Indeed, the basic thrust of the Measures is to have SOEs provide for a
"positive" redeployment of the redundant workers, i.e., avoid creating actual
unemployment.
6.    Clearly the officially reported unemployment rate does not fully reflect the
unemployment and underemployment situation in Chongqing. For example, adults living



- 58 -                      ANNEX 2.1
on farms are automatically considered employed. Rural underemployment, including
seasonal unemployment, is extensive. The CLB estimates that in 1994, 1.5 million rural
workers left for urban jobs in Chongqing and elsewhere in China. It is estimated that the
number of surplus workers in urban SOEs is around 250,000.
7.    Nevertheless, Chongqing's substantial economic growth has been creating new
jobs. In 1994, according to the official statistics, 62,000 net new jobs were created.
While SOEs lost about 5,000 jobs, this was offset by an increase of 28,000 jobs
(166 percent increase) in urban private enterprises and the number of self-employed
increased by 64,000, or 72 percent. In 1993, however, about 85,000 jobs were lost,
largely in SOEs and urban collectives while jobs increased 127,000 in 1992 and 215,000
in 1991.
8.-   The CLB has developed mechanisms for job placement and training, and
unemployment insurance. SOEs, however, retain responsibility for the skill preparation
of the labor force and redeployment of surplus workers. The CLB operates 69 labor
exchange offices, 22 unemployment offices, 17 employment training center and 80 labor
service companies, which provide employment for about 4,000 individuals.  The
employment training centers have a capacity (largely at the job entry level) to serve 4,000
individuals. The Education Commission is responsible for 36 secondary vocational
schools and 81 technical schools, also geared toward entry-level skills. It also operates
several tertiary polytechnics, which provide higher-level technical skills. SOE training
includes 113 skilled work schools, largely entry-level training. SOEs also operate 60
technical schools providing inservice mid-level skills, and 27 worker and staff colleges
providing inservice high-level technical skills and instructor training. In sum, there are
210 SOE training facilities with a potential capacity for training 60,000 individuals
annually. In addition, the unions also operate entry-level skill training facilities, as well
as a technical institute and a workers' university, which in total train about 14,000
workers a year.
9.    Most of Chongqing's job training capacity is for entry-level skills for new
entrants to the labor force, with little of it geared toward the retraining or upgrading of
adult workers whose skills are obsolete. Further, the instructional programs are narrowly
skill-focused and use outmoded instructional methodologies and only limited training
facilities. Similarly CLB's employment assistance activities such as job development,
matching and placement are not well developed or suited for the emerging needs in
Chongqing's changing economy and labor market. Therefore, a priority need in the
reform of Chongqing's labor market is to develop improved training and employment
measures to redeploy the increasing number of surplus workers who will be entering the
labor market.
10.   Given present concerns at both national and regional levels about social stability,
it is unlikely that significant increases in open unemployment will be tolerated. In
addition, labor market information and services are quite limited, and no system exists for
providing direct financial assistance to surplus workers. Also, the ability of SOEs to



- 59 -                     ANNEX 2.1
provide training (other than on-the-job) is also limited; and the creation of service
companies by SOEs as an alternative to actually shedding labor represents only a partial
solution to the surplus labor problem.
C. FINANCIAL SECTOR
11.   The financial sector in Chongqing, at the end of 1994 consisted of eight banks
with 1,364 branches and 1,182 nonbanking financial institutions (94 percent of which are
Rural Credit Cooperatives). Investment needs in Chongqing continue to exceed the
financial sector's ability to gather deposits as demonstrated by a systemwide loan-to-
deposit ratio of approximately 136 percent. The system historically was extremely
dependent on borrowings from PBC. Pursuant to PBC's effort to exercise more effective
macro control, however, PBC centralized its lending and now channels funds through
bank headquarters, which then onlend to the provincial and city branches. As a result,
during 1994 and 1995, local PBC funding has largely been replaced by interbranch and
interbank borrowings.
12.   Limited deposit-gathering capacity and capital positions of the local branches
impede the system's ability to serve the needs of local enterprises. Total financial
institution loans at the end of 1993 totaled Y 36.7 million (up 20.8 percent from 1992).
Year-end deposits in financial institutions were Y 28.1 million, showing an increase of
24.5 percent during 1992. Bank loans (Y 31.0 million) and deposits (Y 22.8) constitute
84.2 percent and 47.0 percent, respectively, of the systemwide loans and deposits. The
banking sector is dominated by the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) and
the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC). At the end of 1993, ICBC held 55.6 percent of
total bank loans and 47 percent of total bank deposits. ABC's corresponding market
share percentages were 18.4 percent and 19 percent, respectively. ABC's position is
further enhanced by the control it has exercised over the Rural Credit Cooperatives
(RCCs). RCC loans and deposits at the end of 1993 were Y 2.9 billion and Y 3.9 billion,
respectively.
13.   Although the total funds raised in the capital markets are small compared with
bank intermediation, securities markets are being encouraged and are --growing in
importance. Significant capital market transactions in 1993 included: (a) issuance of
Y 30 million bonds by the Chongqing Investment Fund for the benefit of the Three
Gorges project, (b) three local firms were approved to issue Y 71.2 million in bonds at the
Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges, (c) three large securities firms were approved
for operations in Sichuan. Bonds issued in Chongqing in 1993 totaled Y 562.3 million.
14.   Competition is currently impeded by a number of legal and logistical factors that
result in the high concentration of loans detailed above. Even if borrowers are allowed to
move freely between institutions, the dominant position of two or three banks and
effective sectoral and product segmentation will continue to impede competition.
Sectoral and product segmentation diminish the banks' attempts to provide better service



- 60 -                     ANNEX 2.1
to their customers, restrict their deposit bases, and contribute to loan quality problems as
banks and customers feel excessively bound to and dependent on each other.
15.   The Chongqing Branch of PBC supervises all financial institutions in Chongqing.
Prior to the enactment of the Commercial Banking Law on May 10, 1995, the branch's
primary function was to supervise implementation of the credit plan. Under the new
banking law, the scope, functions, and organizational structure of PBC are being adjusted
and PBC branches have yet to clearly define their regulatory and monitoring role. One of
the central issues faced by PBC at present is how to divide supervisory powers between
PBC headquarters and branches in light of the bank's decisions (under the new Banking
Law) to constitute themselves at the Headquarters level as a single legal person.
16.   Since the promulgation of the Provisional Rules on the Management of Credit
Funds (effective February 1, 1994), the local PBC Chongqing Branch has worked to
introduce balance sheet ratios as a way to evaluate management and to measure bank
financial soundness. Under the new Banking Law, four ratios (capital adequacy, loans to
deposits, current ratio, and a large exposure rule) replace the provisional ratios that the
PBC branch had previously been promoting.



- 61-                      ANNEX 3.1
ANNEX 3.1: ECONOMIC POLICY STATEMENT OF
CHONGQING MUNICIPALITY
December 11, 1995
Mr. Nicholas Hope
Director
China & Mongolia Department
The World Bank
Washington, DC 20433
Dear Mr. Hope:
In order to establish the socialist market economic system in Chongqing
Municipality (CM) so that its economy can meet international economic rules and
practices, as required by the State; and to ensure successful cooperation between the
Chongqing Municipality (CM) and the World Bank in the implementation of the
Chongqing Industrial Pollution Control and Restructuring Project (CIPCRP), so as to lay
the foundation for future cooperation, we have prepared the Chongqing Municipality
Economic Policy Reform Agenda and Action Plan (Attachment 1), based on economic
rules and international practices, as well as on the suggestions of the Appraisal Mission.
The Economic Reform Agenda and Action Plan can be summarized as follows:
Economic Reform Objectives of Chongqing
The basic framework of the socialist market economic system will be established
by the end of 1998. The major components of this framework include:
(a)   a  reoriented  and  restructured  municipal  government  economic
management system, which mainly relies on macroeconomic, indirect
means, and is in conformity with the requirements of a socialist market
economy;
(b)   a modern enterprise system  in conformity with a socialist market
economy, under which: (i) enterprise property rights and other rights and
obligations are clearly defined, (ii) enterprise governance structures give
managers authority to operate with full autonomy in decision-making,
(iii) enterprises are subject to "hard fiscal and quasi-fiscal budget
constraints" and other features of a business disciplining, competitive
environment, such as market-priced capital, labor and other factors of
production; (iv) governmental social service and regulatory functions are



- 62 -                     ANNEX 3.1
separated from the commercial, productive functions of enterprises,
(v) fluid capital, labor and technology markets develop, (vi) there is
greater attention paid to the development of modem, high value-added
services sectors, (vii) scientific enterprise management is practiced, and
(viii) there is openness to foreign flows of trade, investment capital and
other assets;
(c)   a diversity of enterprise ownership structures, under which various
enterprise forms can develop in tandem, compete vigorously with one
another and enjoy neutrality in treatment under the economic laws,
regulations and other measures, with the growth of the nonstate, private
sector being especially encouraged;
(d)   a social security system, which covers the whole of society and is
conducive to the growth of a socialist market economy and social stability;
and
(e)   a program to protect the environment-a program that is based on the
principle that economic development and environmental protection can
proceed in tandem, and thereby society benefits on both counts.
Major Economic Reform Tasks
I1.    There will be an acceleration of reforms in state-owned enterprises
under municipal government control (MCSOEs), so that the modem
enterprise system can be established as soon as possible.  Principal
reforms include the following: First, in accordance with the Regulations
on the Transformation of Enterprise Management Mechanism, the "14
Autonomous Rights" will be fully delegated to enterprises, and done so in
a way that they may really enjoy the exercise of those rights. Second,
enterprises will be transformned, based on the Company Law, into limited
liability shareholding companies, limited liability companies, or
companies solely owned by the state. In this regard, there will continue to
be transformation of MCSOEs into fully autonomous shareholding
companies, with the goal of completing the transformation process for
approximately 50 percent of MCSOEs by 1996, and approximately
100 percent by the year 2000. Third, building on the progress already
made in the last several years in eliminating CM fiscal (budgetary)
subsidies for operational losses to industrial MCSOEs, fiscal subsidies for
technical renovation to industrial MCSOEs will be eliminated by 1998;
remaining fiscal subsidies to industrial MCSOEs-for policy losses-that
currently includes only coal production, chemical fertilizer and plastic
films (for agriculture), will be eliminated dependent on the Center's policy
changes in these sectors. Quasi-fiscal subsidies to industrial MCSOEs-
those provided through the financial system-will be reduced and



- 63 -                     ANNEX 3.1
eliminated as progress continues to be made in commercializing the
financial sector; see paragraph 6 below. Fourth, in accordance with the
relevant laws, for those enterprises whose liabilities exceed their assets, or
who have suffered persistent losses without any prospect for recovery,
bankruptcy proceedings will be initiated, or they will be closed down
without any protection.
2.    Encouragement and support of development of the nonstate sector.
The government will provide broad investment opportunities and a
favorable policy framework and social environment for the growth of the
nonstate economy. The sector will enjoy an "enabling environment" that
provides a "level playing field" vis a vis state enterprise firms.
3.    Establishment of a market-oriented state asset management system.
This will include the State Asset Management Committee (SAMC) and its
executive, the State Asset Management Bureau (SAMB); and several State
Asset Operating Companies (SAOCs) or State Asset Group Companies
(SAGCs) authorized to carry out state asset management responsibilities.
SAMB will assign the state's ownership rights to SAOCs or SAGCs,
which will exercise these rights by appointing members of, and/or serving
on, boards of directors of the underlying SOEs. SAMB will operate as a
bona fide independent bureau, will have a full-time director and its
functions will not be subordinated to those of other CM bureaus. SAOCs
or SAGCs will act as trustees for the state, seeking to retain and increase
the value of state assets through monitoring SOEs' performance based on
market-oriented criteria; investment and dividend policy will also be
established in accordance with commercial objectives. SAOCs or SAGCs
will be organized as limited liability or limited liability shareholding
companies.  They will be managed by full-time directors and be
independent from sector line bureaus, which, over time, will be phased out
or transformed into independent trade associations.
4.    Dealing with surplus workers, strengthening job  training and
improving the labor market. The unemployment insurance fimd will be
augmented to provide assistance to additional surplus workers separated
from their jobs. A job retraining program, involving the joint efforts of
SOEs and CM, also will be established to facilitate surplus workers
making the transition, where appropriate, to new jobs. The employment
system reform will be accelerated to convert, by 1998, all regular
employees to the contractual employment system in enterprises under
CM's jurisdiction.
5.    Improvement and integration of the social security system.  By
approximately 1997, a unified social security system, managed by the
Social Insurance Bureau, will be in place. This will help ensure that the



- 64 -                     ANNEX3.1
CM's market economy can continue to develop while providing for social
stability. While its coverage is being expanded through pooling, both
across different types of work units and regions, the pension system in CM
will be gradually transforrned into a regime under which the collection and
delivery of pensions are integrated, their administration is delinked from
enterprises, and they incorporate individual accounts. Significant medical
and industrial injury insurance reforms are also under way.
6.    Strengthening the financial sector and development of the capital
market. Banking institutions will be strengthened so as to provide for a
vibrant and competitive financial sector, allowing for effective
intermediation of savings into needed investment. In line with the new
Commercial Banking Law, CM's commercial banks will be given the
decision-making autonomy necessary for operating in a market economy.
Efforts will be made to encourage new entrants in the financial sector,
including foreign financial institutions, to establish operations in CM.
7.    Government reorganization and the rationalization and consolidation
of government functions. As a major component of the reorganization,
the number of government employees and agencies will be reduced. The
government functions related to the economy will be rationalized, so that
the government will no longer directly manage enterprises and will not
interfere with enterprise operations.
8.    Mitigating industrial pollution and environmental damage. There will
be a strengthening and extension of municipal regulations to protect the
environment, particularly against the effects of industrial pollution, and an
upgrading of the capabilities of government agencies to ensure that
environmental regulations are enforced.
The Chongqing Municipality Economic Policy Reform Agenda and Action
Plan, has been prepared based on the conditions of the social and economic development
in the municipality, and has taken into full consideration the suggestions of the World
Bank Appraisal Mission. This action plan has been discussed and reviewed by the
relevant government agencies. We are committed to complete in time the reforms in
various fields as provided in the action plan. The Chongqing Municipality welcomes the
World Bank's CIPCRP supervision team to monitor jointly with CM the implementation
of the action plan and other facets of the CIPCRP.
People's Governnent of Chongqing
People's Republic of China



- 65 -                                   ANNEX 3.2
ANNEX 3.2: CHONGQING MUNICIPALITY ECONOMIC
POLICY REFORM AGENDA AND ACTION PLAN
DECEMBER 11, 1995
|Reforrn     Objectivcs                 Actions Taken                 Actions to be Taken and Their    Rponsibility
I                                                       iTiming
IA. MODERN ENTERPRISE SYSTEM
SOE Manage- Separate enterprise manage- Municipal regulation promul-    All but 2 of the 14 Autonomous  Economic
ment Auton-  ment functions from state's  gated in 1993 regarding the trans- Rights fall under CM's control;  Commission
omy          exercise of ownership rights fer of 14 Autonomous Manage-  trading rights and investment   (EC) and System
functions, and ensure SOE   ment Rights established in the    rights are under the Center's    Reform Com-
management is autonomous  State Council's New Operating   control. CM will complete   mission (SRC)
and accountable for perform- Mechanism of July 1992. As of  transfer of the 12 rights to all
ance based on market-     April 1994, the majority of the 14 SOEs in CM by end of 1998;
oriented criteria.        rights were transferred to the  also by end-1998, CM will apply
majority of SOEs in CM; for    to the Center for the transfer of
some SOEs, all rights had been   the 2 other rights to CM's SOEs
transferred. Contract Responsi-  (if they have not been
bility System abolished Decem-  transferred by that time).
ber 1993.
Conversion of Establish through corporati- By 1995 conversion of 40 SOEs  By end-1996, conversion of  EC and SRC
SOEs into    zation commercially oriented into limited liability shareholding approximately 50 percent of
Shareholding  enterprise structures. Define companies (LLSCs) and 200  SOEs into LLCs/LLSCs will
Companies   clearly enterprises' legal pro- SOEs into limited liability com-  take place, and conversion of
perty rights, including the    panies (LLCs) had taken place   approximately 100 percent will
right to dispose of assets    (not all in industrial sector); 7    take place by 2000. Reform of
according to the law.     LLSCs are listed on stock     Chongqing Iron & Steel Corp.
exchanges. CM was asked to    under Center's 100 Enterprise
nominate I SOE to participate in  Reform experiment to be com-
the GOC's "100 Modem Enter-  pleted by 1996.
prise System Experiment;" CM
nominated Chongqing Iron &
Steel Company, whose reform
plan has been accepted by the
Center. 2 SOEs have been
selected by CM to participate in
Sichuan Province's 80 SOE
Modem Enterprise Reform
Program. CM has organized an
interagency Leading Group,
chaired by the Mayor to develop
enterprise reform policies.
Divesting    To let enterprises function as CM is one of 18 cities chosen by  CM agencies have prepared a    EC and SRC
Social Service commercial entities without Center for the "Comprehensive   plan for "optimizing the capital
Functions    social burdens and to focus  Reform" experiment, which,  structure and strengthening the
from SOEs'  on productive activities; to  among other things, will involve  performance and management of
Operations    ensure govemment provides capital replenishment and tech-   SOEs" and an "urban compre-
social services, consistent   nical renovation, dealing with    hensive reform" plan for this
with the general practice in  surplus workers, reducing debt,  experiment. The plans have
market economies.         divesting from SOEs historical   been approved by CM and the
social burdens, such as pensions, Center, and are being imple-
housing (see section C below),   mented. By 1996 CM will select
schools, hospitals, etc. CM has   I or 2 other SOEs to experiment
selected 66 enterprises (mostly   with transferring schools and
industrial SOEs) to participate in  medical facilities to govemment
its "comprehensive experiment."  administration.
32 of the 66 firms have devel-
oped action plans for reform; CM
has produced 12 general policy
documents setting out guidelines
for this experiment. 3 middle and
preliminary schools of
Chongqing Iron & Steel Corp.
l __________  ________________________   transferred  to  CM     auspices.



- 66 -                                     ANNEX 3.2
Reform        Objectives                 Actions Taken                  Actions to be Taken and Their   Responsibility
____ ___ __   ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ _   _ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ ___ T im ing
Hardening the To establish a business dis-  Reforms since 1987 have begun   When the Central authorities    Fmance Bume u
Fiscal and    ciplining economic environ- to remove industrial sector SOE   allow coal prices to be eom-  (FB), EC
Quasi-Fiscal  ment.                      fiscal subsidies for "operating  pletely set by the market, CM
Budget Con-                              losses;" such subsidies were   will terminate all fiscal subsidies
straint on                               ended in 1993. In the industrial  to that sector; likewise for rele-
SOEs                                     sector, only coal production and  vant agricultural-support indus-
agriculture-support firms (chemi- tries. Currently there are no
cal fertilizer and plastic film pro- plans to reduce or terminate
ducers) receive fiscal subsidies- existing nonindustrial SOE fiscal
to cover "policy losses;" these    subsidies. Technical renovation
subsidies are about Y 81 million  credits to industrial SOEs
(1994). CM also provides,    through CM's budget will ter-
through its budget, technical  minate year-end 1998. Reduc-
renovation credits to industrial   tion or elimination of quasi-
sector loss-making SOEs-Y 68  fiscal subsidies is dependent
million. Thus, total fiscal subsi-  upon Center's and CM's policies
dies to industrial sector SOEs is  for commercial banking reform
Y 149 million, which amounts to  (see C below).
about 4% of about of CM's total
Y 3.56 billion budget expendi-
tures. Total fiscal subsidies to all
other SOEs, i.e., outside of the
industrial sector, are much larger
-Y  294 million for operating
and policy losses, and Y 54 mil-
lion for technical renovation
credits (about 10% of budget
expenditures). In addition, like
elsewhere in China, CM's indus-
trial and nonindustrial SOEs
enjoy quasi-fiscal subsidies:
CM's SOEs account for the bulk
of bank credit, lent at negative
real interest rates.
Reform of    To more effectively imple-   Like other govemments in China, CM expects there to be a gradual EC and SRC
Bankruptcy    ment existing enterprise   CM has shied away from active   acceleration of bankruptcies,
Policy        bankruptcy measures.       encouragement of bankruptcy-  e.g., perhaps 5 to 6 industrial
as long as an adequate "social    SOEs will file for bankruptcy in
safety net" is missing. Still,  1996, and CM wants to quicken
within the past 5 years, three  bankruptcy procedures. CM will
medium and small industrial    also encourage enterprises to
SOEs have gone through success- merge or acquire firms on the
ful bankruptcy proceedings (the   verge of bankruptcy.
largest was a knitting mill with
3000 workers), and five others
have begun the process. CM has
drafted "Measures for Bank-
ruptcy of Chongqing SOEs." CM
is one of 2 municipalities chosen
by the central government in the
"Bankruptcy Reform" experi-
ment, which, among other things,
will deal generally with devising
guidelines, including workers'
and creditors' rights, for
economically efficient, socially
effective implementation of
bankruptcy policY.
Corporatiza-  Define TVE property rights, Conversion ofn VEs into cooper- Increase pace of TVE corporati- SRC of munici-
tion of TVEs  establish for TVEs autono-   ative shareholding companies    zation. It is expected that by    pality and town-
mous management rights and (CSCs) is being taken as an inter- 1996, one third of TVEs will be  ship and village
register TVEs as indepen-   mediate step toward conversion   converted in CSCs; all new  levels.
dent legal persons.       into LLSCs and LLCs. Local-   TVEs will be CSCs. Also, TVE
level regulation for CSCs adopted group companies will be formed.
on 1/1/95; Center is drafting
national CSC law (expected in
1996). As ofJuly 1995, 1,988
TVE conversions into CSCs, 221
TVE conversions into LLCs and
23 TVE conversions into LLSCs
1 have taken place.



-67 -                                       ANNEX 3.2
Reform        Objectives                  Actions Taken                    Actions to be Taken and Their   Responsibility
I _______________________   ____________________________     T im ing
Increasing    To create an "enabling envi- Notwithstanding remaining fiscal CM is committed to strength-    EC and SRC
Interenterprise ronment" for all types of  and quasi-fiscal subsidies to some ening the enforcement of mea-
Competition   enterprises-regardless of   SOEs, current policy generally   sures that ensure a nondiscrimi-
and Creating a ownership structure. Also to ensures nonstate and state enter-  natory, competitive environ-
Market for    create a "market for corpo-   prises have equal access to, and   ment.
Disposition    rate control," where mergers pay similar prices for, infrastruc-
and Recombi- and acquisitions can be      ture elements and factors of pro-
nation of     carried out.                duction (labor, capital and tech-
Assets                                    nology); and ensures neutrality in
tax treatment as between owner-
ship forms. In 1994, 35 enter-
prises merged or acquired another
42 firms. CM has drafted
"Enforcement Regulations
Against Counterfeit and Price
Fraud in Industrial Goods" and
"Notice for Opinions on Advanc-
ing Enterprise Mergers." CM has
created a Property Rights
Transaction Market.
Implementa-  Establish an accounting sys- New accounting principles based  In 1995, 100% of CM's SOEs   Finance Bureau
tion of a Mod- tem based on intemational   on intemational standards were   will have their accounts prepared
em Account-  standards.                   established throughout China by  by the independent accounting
ing System                                the Central authorities in July    institutions. CM will increase
and Establish-                            1993. All CM's SOEs have        the professional training of local
ment of Inde-                             implemented these principles.    accountants.
pendent                                   CM has ensured local financial
Accounting                                accountants are certified and have
Entities                                  received training. CM has about
35 independent accounting and
about 35 independent auditing
r:ntities; a few such entities are
state owned; some are subsidia-
ries of Beijing based firms; most
are local partnerships. In 1993,
20% of CM's SOEs had their
accounts prepared by such insti-
tutions; in 1994, 40% did so. The
SOEs can choose which entity to
go to. Accounts are tumed into
_____ ____ _____ ____ the  Finance  Bureau.          _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _
Shedding      Improve the efficiency of    Shedding of surplus labor has    To further augment the Ul In   Labor Bureau
Surplus Labor SOEs burdened by surplus   occurred in measured fashion.    to assist surplus workers (as well
from SOEs    labor, while at the same time Unemployment Insurance (Ul)   as unemployed new graduates),
improve the functioning of   fund is being strengthened (see   in 1996 consideration will be
labor market institutions to  section D below). The basic   given to securing a portion of
assist in the reemployment   offices of an Employment Service the education tax on SOEs as
of surplus workers.         have been established. "Tempo-  well as other revenue sources
rary Measures to Resettle Surplus from CM's budget. If World
Workers of SOEs of Chongqing"  Bank support for the Surplus
has been issued and imple-      Labor Employment and Training
mented. CM's pilot program      Guidance Center (SLETGC) is
provides for the outplacement of  approved in 1996, the SLETGC,
surplus workers to Labor Service  which will provide specialized
Enterprises and the service (ter-  reemployment and retraining
tiary) sector as well as early  assistance to surplus workers,
retirement. Each year, not more  will be established in 1997.
than 2% of the surplus workers in SLETGC will also assist SOEs
the 66 enterprises participating in in strengthening their own
CM's Comprehensive Reform      redeployment efforts, as well as
experiment can be shed.         assist the Labor Bureau's other
employment and training centers
I_in serving surplus workers.



- 68 -                                    ANNEX 3.2
Reform        Objectives                 Actions Taken                  Actions to be Taken and Their   Responsibility
Timing
Improving the Increase labor mobility by    By end 1994, over one-half of    By 1998, the labor contractBureau
Labor Market replacing the system of     SOE employment had been        system will cover 100% of the
permanent employment with changed from permanent to       SOEs. The network of employ-
a labor contract system.   contract status. Newly recruited  ment offices will be integrated.
employees will be hired as con-
tract workers. "Labor force Mar-
kets" (serving skilled workers)
and "Brain Power Exchange
Centers" (serving professional
workers) have been established in
the urban districts, the operations
of which are partly computerized.
Five counties have also estab-
lished similar centers and
markets.
Strengthen    Improve the functioning of  Several professional training  Develop by end-1999 a coor-    Labor Bureau
Job Training  job training programs to   centers have been established,    dinated, strengthened job train-
Activities    assist surplus workers in  and programs for professional    ing system, involving the joint
meeting the skill require-    training within enterprises have   efforts of SOEs and the munici-
ments of restructured enter-  been created in some enterprises, pal govemment.
prises or wholly new
,employment opportunities.
B. STATE ASSET MANAGEMENT
Assignment of To clearly delineate state    The Municipal Party Committee  SAMB will be strengthened as   SAMB
State Owner-  asset ownership rights; to    and CM have approved "Sug-    an independent agency, with
ship Rights in ensure assignment of state's  gestions on the Trial Institutional newly trained staff. By year-end
SOEs Under  ownership rights is carried   Reform of State Asset Manage-   1996, asset valuations of all
Control of    out in accordance with     ment." A municipal State Asset  SOEs under CM will be
CM            market-oriented principles.  Management Committee         completed.
(SAMC). headed by a Vice
Mayor has been established. A
State Asset Management Bureau
(SAMB) has also been estab-
lished, which essentially serves as
the SAMC's executive
secretariat. (See below for
further structure of state asset
management institutions.) In
1995, asset valuations of most
SOEs were completed.
Exercise of   To establish State Asset   Two State Asset Operating      CM's plan is to add by year-end  SAMB, SAOCs
Assigned      Operating Companies        Companies (SAOCs) have been   1995: 3-5 SAOCs and authorize  and SAGCs
State Owner-  (SAOCs) or State Asset     established as LLCs with 100%   2 more SAGCs. In general, as
ship Rights in Group Companies (SAGCs)  state ownership (machinery and   more SAOCs are created and
SOEs Under  entrusted with state asset    consumer goods distribution);    SAGCs are authorized, LBs will
Control of    management responsibilities and 4 SAGCs have also been    be phased out and transformed
CM on        that, in the exercise of    authorized to carry out state asset into trade associations.
Market Basis  assigned state's ownership   management responsibilities.
rights through the participa-  Much of CM's supervision of
tion on boards of directors,  state assets is still vested in Line
help ensure SOEs (i) have    Bureaus (LBs). CM has com-
appropriate capital structures pleted draft overall operational
for competitive market     framework, including policy on
performance, (ii) establish    SAOCs' operations with respect
clear performance criteria   to dividend and investment
based on commercial objec- allocation (with the objective of
tives, (iii) use information    basing such allocations on market
systems and financial tools  principles).
to monitor performance, and
(iv) assess technological
trends and develop market-
ing strategies. Ensure indi-
viduals from these institu-
tions representing the state
on boards of directors have
the ability to assess (i)-(iv).
Goal is to organize these
SAOCs or SAGCs as LLSCs
l _______   or LLCs.



- 69 -                                    ANNEX 3.2
form           jectives                  Actions Taken                         to be Taken and Their -Responsibility
C. SUPOR  'iG REFOR~MS                    _________    ________
Investment    Liberalize commercial      In line with the Center's policy,  Within the scope of the Center's PC
System        investment decisions from    the economy is divided into three loosening of investment limita-
Reform        govemment planning (much  sectors for investment policy pur- tions in the "competitive sector",
like commercial production  poses: (i) "social sector" (public  CM will continue its reform in
decisions have been liberal-  health, education, the arts, sports, this area; plan is for full invest-
ized).                     broadcasting, etc.), in which  ment decision-making in this
investment for "unprofitable"    sector to be transferred to enter-
projects is funded directly by  prises by 1998.
CM's budget, and for "profitable"
projects is financed on the same
terms as the "basic sector"; (ii)
"basic sector" (energy, urban
infrastructure, telecommunica-
tions, major raw materials, public
utilities, etc.), in which invest-
ment projects are financed by the
local and/or state development
banks at below-market interest
rates or, in special cases, through
grants; and (iii) "competitive sec-
tor," in which projects are
financed through commercial
banks, who are to be given auto-
nomy in loan decision-making,
subject to state macroeconomic
limitations on investment levels
as implemented by local govern-
ments. With respect to the "com-
petitive sector," although the
New Operating Mechanism of
1992 liberalized govemment
investment limitations, they were
reinstituted in 1994 (in part, to
control for overheating of the
economy); currently a series of
govemment approvals-some
trom the Center, others from
CM-are required for virtually
all investment projects in the
.___________         "competitive sector"
Foreign       To facilitate local enterprise  CM's reforms in these areas  CM's scope of future acdon in   MOFI*EC,
Exchange      competition and interna-   generally follow center's reforms. these areas is largely dependent Customns Bureau
System,       tional flows of capital,   However, because of CM's       on center's approval.          and PBC-CM
Foreign Trade goods, services, technology  Yangtze location it has been
and Foreign   and management skills.     treated for FDI and trade matters
Investment                               equivalent to the 14 special
coastal cities. For example,
income tax on foreign funded
firms in productive sector is 24%
(rather than 33% for all other
firms and foreign funded fimis in
unproductive sector) and CM has
two development zones (an eco-
nomic zone and a science & tech-
nology zone), which enjoy a
foreign funded firtn income tax
ceiling of 15%. In line with cen-
ter's nationwide directive, CM
abolished foreign currency con-
trol and quota system on January
1. 1994.



- 70 -                                   ANNEX 3.2
Reform       Objectives                Actions Taken                  Actions to be Taken and Their   Responsibility
_mTiming
Tax System    Through tax revenue-sharing CM participated as one of 9  CM's scope of future action in  Finance Bureau
Refom        between center and munici-  municipalities in an experiment  this area is largely dependent on and Tax Bureau
pality, to obtain a nationally  to devise a tax-sharing formula.  center's approval. CM will
consistent and fairer distri-  As of January 1, 1994, the new   establish a current account and
bution of revenues, and  formula was introduced nation-   capital account ("fiscal double
through an enterprise tax    wide: (i) VAT is shared (75%,   accounting") budgetary system
regime, to introduce trans-  central; 25%, local); (ii) II com- by 1996. Also being developed
parency and equal treatment modity taxes are payable to cen-  by CM (for completion in 1996)
of enterprise forms.     ter; (iii) tumover taxes on ser-   is an income transfer
vices are payable to local govem- redistribution system to give aid
ments. Income tax on enterprises to CM's poorest citizens.
are payable to respective control-
ling govemments. Notwithstand-
ing exceptions for special, coastal
and riverside cities, enterprise
income tax rate is 33%. Under
new tax law, CM established
branches of state and land tax
institutions and defined their
responsibilities. According to the
Center's regulations, head of
revenue bureau has been
reappointed, and the jurisdic-
tional limits of regions and
county finance and tax institu-
tions have been defined.
Financial Sec- Promote competition and    In 1994, PBC-CM obtained    Encourage branches of foreign   CM and PBC-
tor Reform    corporatization in the finan- authority from PBC-HQ for licen- banks to be established in CM    CM
cial sector.              sing of a representative office in  and foreign investment in CM's
CM of a foreign bank. In 1995,  local banks. Delink trust com-
CM was selected by the Center as panies from parent banks in
one of nine cities to be opened to accordance with the Commercial
foreign bank branches; several   Banking Law.
applications by foreign banks are
pending. Also, several nonbank
financial institutions have been
established, including seven trust
companies and an investment
fund management company.
In 1995, CM's 45 Urban Credit  Corporatize Rural Credit Coop-  PBC-CM
Cooperatives (UCCs) were con-  eratives (RCCs) in 1996-97.
solidated into an association,
which was made into a corpora-
tized, Chongqing Urban Credit
Cooperative Bank.
Strengthen the power of   The new Commercial Banking    Require calculation and submis- PBC-CM
PBC-CM to regulate and    Law establishes rules for manag- sion of ratios on a quarterly
supervise the financial   ing ratios of the commercial  basis. Assure branch compli-
sector.                   banks. PBC-HQ and HQ of       ance or establish a time-bound
CM's banks are establishing   program for compliance. Estab-
appropriate ratios for CM branch- lish PBC-CM's capacity to
level implementation.         examine loan quality and ratio
compliance of CM branches of
commercial banks.
jTransforma-  Strengthen the ability of the  Reform objectives have been  Commercial banks will be  PBC-CM and
tion of Spe-   banks to make market-    defined to increase the banks'   required to adopt balance sheet  CM's commer-
cialized Banks oriented credit decisions.    autonomy and accountability for ratios by 1996. Establish by  cial bank
into Commer-                           their credit decisions.        1996 reform programs within the branches
cial Banks                                                            banks to improve skills for ana-
lyzing, monitoring and manag-
ing risk in a market economy.
Define and identify policy   Specialized banks have been  Encourage PBC-HQ to issue  PBC-CM and
and commercial components directed by their headquarters and guideline definitions for distin-  CM's commer-
of loan portfolios.       by PBC to evaluate their portfo-  guishing between policy and    cial bank
lios and to identify policy and    commercial loans.       branches
commercial components.
Increase accounting trans-   New accounting standards intro-  Encourage PBC-HQ to issue    PBC-CM
parency of banks' perfor-   duced in July 1993 to more accu- guidelines classifying loans
mance.                    rately reflect the financial condi- according to levels of risk and
tions of commercial banks.    probability of repayment.
Encourage PBC-HQ and MOF to
issue guidelines on loan-loss
provisions and interest non-
accrual so that banks clearly
state expenses and accurately
_reflect income and capital. 



- 71 -                                     ANNEX 3.2
Reform        Objectives                 Actions Taken                  Actions to be Taken and Their   Responsibility
_  Timing
Housing Sys- To monetize and commer-   CM issued on December 28,        Rents will be increased to cover Housing Man-
tem Reform   cialize the provision of resi-  1994 the Decision on Deepening  all elements of costs by 1998,   agement Bureau,
dential housing, relieving    Housing System Reform. Rents  and to full market price by 2000. Housing Reform
this social burden from    on public houses have begun2to   Estimated that by 2000, one-    Office, Con-
enterprises' operations. To   be increased, from Y 0.25/m I    third of urban residents will live  struction Bureau
develop the real estate    month in April 1994 to Y 0.84/  in privately owned housing.
market.                    m /month in June 1995. Phased- Provident funds (with contribu-
in sales of existing and new pub- tions by the enterprises and
lic housing have been speeded    workers) will be established to
up. Development of housing     finance housing construction and
market has begun to relieve enter- to be used to foster housing pur-
prises of the burden of allocating, chases; state contributes land.
constructing and managing hous- Independent housing manage-
ing; for example, housing con-   ment/construction companies,
struction is generally done    organized as LLSCs/LLCs, will
through attached housing com-   be established, date undefined.
panies, some of which are inter-
enterprise establishments (about
100 exist in CM).
D. SOCIAL SECURITY REFORM
Unemploy-   Improve income mainte-       The Ul fund has been established, It is intended to expand Ul cov-  Employment
ment Insur-   nance support for unem-    and is managed by the Employ-  erage to 100% of workers in    Bureau
ance Fund     ployed workers by replacing  ment Bureau, which is under the  CM. covering workers in all
SOE-based system with      Labor Bureau. The Ul fund      nonstate sectors. Action is
municipal government man- covers 80% of workers in SOEs  dependent on issuance of insur-
aged system, with substan-   and collectives. As of August    ance law now being drafted by
tially improved financing  1995, in addition to the employer Center. If this law is passed in
and administrative opera-    contribution, each employee con- 1996, then full Ul coverage
tions.                     tributes Y 2/month into the Ul   expected by 1998.
fund.
Pension Fund  Improve and expand CM's   Three pension pools have been   Pension reform plan approved    Social Insurance
capacity to provide pension  created or are being created: (i)  and will be fully implemented in Bureau (SIB)
insurance by pooling into a  existing pool is for urban enter-  2000. Worker contribution will
CM-managed social insur-   prises; planned pools are for (ii)  rise from 3% to 8% (1996-
ance fund, and creating indi- CM workers (to start in 1996)    2000). Reform will develop
vidual pension accounts that and (iii) rural, TVEs (start-date   Individual Account (IA) system,
otherwise have been admin- undetermined). Characteristics of ending current mode of contri-
istered by work units.     existing urban enterprise pool    butions/payments passing from
for all ownership enterprise forms SIB to work unit to worker;
in urban area; currently covers   rather, they will be deposited
1.5 million workers; current pay- directly in a worker's IA held at
ments are to 400,000 pensioners; either SIB or banks (thus delink-
contribution rates are 27% pay-  ing enterprises from administer-
roll tax for work unit and 3% of  ing the pensions). Part of 27%
individual worker's wage; end-   work unit contribution will go
1994 accounts: total contributions into a worker's IA; the rest to
Y 806 million, total payments    "adjustment" pool. lAs can take
Y 807 million, reserve Y 160   additional workers' deposits to
million; pool reserve at end-1993  strengthen personal pensions.
was Y 300 million: Y 140 million Reform will make part of an
used to subsidize pension-deficit individual's pension receipts
firms; only about 70% of payroll linked to his/her contributions.
tax is actually paid: under- or    To learn about World Bank-
nonpayers are firms with young   supported pension reform initia-
work forces or those with losses.  tives in China, CM will make
A plan has been developed to    contact with authorities in the
integrate by 1997 the pension,   four cities (Beijing, Chengdu,
medical insurance and industrial  Ningbo, and Yantai) participat-
injury insurance funds under the  ing in the Bank's "Enterprise,
Social Insurance Bureau (part of  Housing and Social Security
the Labor Bureau).             Proiect."
Medical       Strengthen and unify on a    Plan for reform currently being   New plan, which will be placed  SIB
Insurance     municipalwide basis (rather  drafted.                     under SIB, will maintain exist-
Fund          than on an enterprise-                                    ing employer-employee cost-
specific basis) medical                                   sharing (except for major medi-
insurance.                                                cal, which is employer-funded).
Current payroll tax varies from
firm to firm; new plan will be
uniform within CM. Reform
expected to be implemented by
1997.
Industrial    Establish a robust munici-   Plan for reform is still being  Plan to be implemented by 1996. SIB
Injury Insur-  palwide fund (rather than    drafted.
ance Fund     enterprise-specific funds).   I



- 72 -                                   ANNEX 3.2
Refomm       Objectives                |Actions Taken                |Actions to be Taken and Their  |Responsibility
                     j~~~~~~~TimingJ
E. MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT FUNCTION AND ORGANIZATION REFORM                                            _
Change the   Realign the role of the muni- Plans have developed by various  Implementation of plans to reori- EC, PC and
Economic    cipal govemment to be con- interagency leading groups (some ent economic function of CM  other depart-
Policy Func-  sistent with that called for in plans are already partiaily imple- began in 1995. Full implemen-  ments concemed
tion of CM   the Center's prescription of a mented) to reduce significantly  tation is set for 1998.
socialist market economy.   CM's micromanagement of the
local economy, including but not
limited to SOEs, and to rely more
on macropolicy tools.
Reorganiza-   Consolidate, rationalize and  In 1992 there were 277 municipal Some bureaus will be abolished  PC and Person-
tion of CM   reduce the size of the muni-  govemment departments and  or reduced in size; some trans-  nel Institutional
cipal govemment.          organizations; by 1994, the num- formed into industrial trade  Office
ber was reduced to 153. CM has associations; most of the Line
stopped establishing new      Bureau staff will be separated to
agencies and hiring net additional establish independent SAOCs.
staff; staff has been decreasing.  Neither the trade associations
CM's Personnel Administration   nor the SAOCs will have gov-
has developed an overall reorga-  emment administrative functions
nization plan. Part of plan is to  (see section B above). Imple-
create a professional civil service mentation of reorganization plan
for CM.                       began in 1995 and is to be com-
pleted by end-1995. Overall,
staff of CM will be reduced by
20%.
F. ENVIRONMENTAL REFORM
Industrial   Modify industrial discharge  Standards for industrial dis-  Implement study's recommen-   CEPB
Pollution    standards so that they are    charges of gases, wastewaters and dations for changing standards
Standards    uniformly consistent with air hazardous wastes and standards  into legal/regulatory framework
and water quality standards  for air/water quality are part of   after study is approved; study is
and technically and econo-  existing regulatory regime.  expected to be completed by
mically rational.         According to the agreed research  year-end 1995. Recommenda-
scope and content, the regulatory  tions can be included into legis-
reform research of the standards  lation by 1997 (1996-provin-
for air, water and other wastes    cial approval and 1997-imple-
have been basically finished.  mentation).
Enforcement  Replace existing policy,    Industrial pollution is monitored. Notify enterprises of expected   CEPB
Policy       which in some cases is based Noncompliant enterprises pena-  new standards for environmental
on polluter's ability to pay,  lized according to ability to pay.  performance (1996). Penalties
with policy based exclu-    Study to reform regulatory  based on polluter's damage to
sively on polluter's damage  regime was completed September environment (1997).
to society.               1995.
Institutional  Improve compliance of    Monitoring program maintained  Improve and expand monitoring CEPB
Enforcement  industrial enterprises,   for gases and wastewaters of   capability, expand number of
Enhance institutional capa-  major industrial polluters.  industrial enterprises monitored
bilities-in terms of both                               and improve accuracy of mea-
quantity and quality-for                                surements by 1996 in response
compliance monitoring.                                  to adopted regulatory reforms.
Environmen-  Establish pollution problem   Regulatory regime includes  Environment Audit Unit to be   CEPB
tal Audits of  and cost-effective mitigating permitting and environmental    established to perform audits for
Industry     measures.                  assessment of existing facilities  all enterprise facilities, whether
when subject to renovation    new, renovated or old, by 1996.
investments and of new invest-   Environmental audit results and
ment additions, but not of por-   recommendations will be used as
tions of existing facilities unaf-   a condition of credit approval by
fected by investment,         commercial banks for further
I___________________________ I_____________________________ _ Ienterprise   developm ent.



- 73 -                     ANNEX 3.3
ANNEX 3.3: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION IN
CHONGQING AND THE CHONGQING INDUSTRIAL
POLLUTION CONTROL AND REFORM PROJECT
1.   Introduction. Pollution associated with China's burgeoning economic growth
continues to exact a sizable toll on the Chinese people and on the environment. China's
industrial sector generates significant levels of air, water and solid waste pollution.
Despite progress in establishing institutions and policies to reduce pollution, there
remains considerable scope for improvement.  In particular, effectively integrating
environmental issues into economic policies, especially those aimed at reform of
industrial enterprises, continues to be a major challenge. The pollution management
system relies on a mixture of administrative command and market-based incentives
expected to lead to adoption of cleaner technologies.
2.    The legal basis for environmental protection is established under the Chinese
Constitution of 1982. Below the Constitution are basic and specific laws, promulgated
by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress. The Environmental
Protection Law (EPL) (1989) is a basic law. The EPL sets forth four guiding principles:
(a) the need to integrate and coordinate environmental protection with economic
development; (b) emphasizing pollution prevention as well as pollution control;
(c) establishing the principle that the polluter pays; and (d) emphasizing environmental
management as key to better environmental quality. The EPL also reflects the need for
active enforcement by government agencies, and addresses industrial pollution issues by
prohibiting the locating of new industrial plants near populated and protected areas, and
specifying that existing industries may be relocated or closed to comply with
environmental law.
3.    The EPL authorizes the National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA) to
establish national ambient quality and source discharge standards.  Provincial and
municipal governments can set discharge standards if they are more stringent, or if no
national standard exists. Emissions standards are generally uniform for a given pollutant
across industries but not necessarily across sectors (e.g., thermal power plants have lower
air emission standards than industrial plants).
4.    Chongqing, the largest city in Sichuan province, with an area of 23,114 km2 and a
population of 15.12 million at the end of 1993, has traditionally been one of the most
important centers of industry, commerce, and distribution in central China. Chongqing's
industrial structure is based on heavy industry-steel, nonferrous metals, machine
building, vehicular, cement, pharmaceuticals, fertilizer and other chemicals-that reflect
older technologies, which predate China's and Chongqing's concern with environmental
impacts and now require relatively high investment to control pollution. However, much



-74 -                      ANNEX 3.3
of the plant and equipment. Also, before the 1980s, plant siting reflected a desire to
minimize infrastructure investment, even if that strategy sited a highly polluting industry
in the city center. Local coal has a very high sulfur content, and with a wet and windless
climate, Chongqing has one of the highest ambient levels of sulfur dioxide in the world.
In the most polluted urban districts, ambient dust concentrations are as much as five times
the level acceptable for maintaining human health, liquid effluents are often discharged
into the Yangtze or Jialing Rivers, and most solid industrial wastes are simply dumped
on-site.
5.    Chongqing's System  for Environmental Protection.   The Chongqing
Environmental Protection Bureau (CEPB) was established in 1974. It includes the
Chongqing Institute for Environmental Science, and is responsible for a wide variety of
environmental activities, including environmental assessment, pollution management
planning, developing new regulations and standards, and pollution control technology
research and development. Chongqing Municipality (CM) also has 21 county and district
EPBs. Both CEPB and the EPBs are responsible for air and water quality monitoring and
source monitoring of atmospheric emissions and effluent discharges from industrial
enterprises within their respective political jurisdictions.  No regular program  for
monitoring of hazardous wastes is currently conducted.
6.    Ambient air quality monitoring is conducted with manual and automatic
monitoring networks. The manual network consists of portable samplers and the
automatic network consists of five permanent stations all located in downtown
Chongqing. Each of the 21 county/district EPBs is responsible for air quality monitoring.
However, because of limited resources, only nine EPBs conduct manual monitoring at a
single site in their respective jurisdiction. The manual monitoring protocol (established
by NEPA) consists of five-day campaigns during each of the four seasons. On any
monitoring day, four 15-minute samples are taken once every six hours. This represents
annual monitoring coverage of about 0.25 percent, which is too small a sampling window
to provide accurate data on air quality levels.  Parameters monitored include dust
(suspended and settleable), sulfur dioxide (SO2), and nitrogen oxides (NOx).
7.    Ambient water quality monitoring is conducted manually at seven predetermined
locations on the Jialing and Yangtze rivers, which is adequate coverage given the current
hydrological regime. Three sites are in the downtown area, where sampling is done once
a month (in the other areas once every other month). At a given site, three samples are
collected: one at each bank, and one in midstream. Average results are reported. Since
most pollution occurs at the rivers edge, this procedure biases water quality on the low
side. Approximately 25 water quality parameters are analyzed. The classes of pollutants
analyzed include organics (phenol, BOD, COD, oil), trace heavy metals (copper, lead,
mercury) and nutrients (nitrogen, phosphorus). Another shortcoming is that several toxic
organics are not measured, and the measurement frequency is too low (particularly near
water intakes). Two additional monitoring locations will be required in the future due to
altered water flows resulting from the Three Gorges Dam.



- 75 -                       ANNEX 3.3
8.    About 150 staff members in all EPBs have direct responsibility for source
monitoring at the approximately 8,000 industrial enterprises in CM. Since both staff
numbers and monitoring equipment are severely limited (particularly in the district/
county EPBs) source monitoring for compliance with standards focuses on the largest
polluters (about 200), which are monitored two to four times per year. Another group of
about 600 enterprises that are next in priority are monitored once or twice a year, and the
remaining enterprises are responsible for self-reporting.
9.    Industrial enterprises in CM are estimated to be responsible for over 7 million
tons of solid waste annually, of which 600,000 tons are believed to be hazardous (toxic
organics, toxic metals, radioactive, etc.). At present there are no national regulations for
hazardous waste management, although legislation has recently been promulgated.
10.   Fees are collected by the EPBs based upon data collected from their monitoring
program. If it is determined that an enterprise is exceeding standards, it is given a
schedule to comply with the norm in a manner consistent with the severity of the
pollution. Normally, compliance is required in three years. During the interim, the
enterprise is allowed to continue its polluting operation and continues to pay the fee.
11.   Fines may also be imposed upon enterprises that engage in environmental
practices considered illegal. For example, failing to operate an existing pollution control
system, falsifying pollution data, or failure to pay pollution fees. In addition to fines, an
enterprise may be closed by the mayor (temporarily or permnanently) for illegal activities.
In practice, few enterprises in CM have been either fined or shut down.
12.   Pollution fees are collected by the Chongqing Finance Bureau (CFB), of which
about 20 percent are used to cover operational expenses of the EPBs, while the remainder
are returned to enterprises in the form of low interest (3 percent) loans for investments in
pollution control. Enterprises which have paid the pollution fees are given priority.
13.   In addition to the limited resources available to EPBs for enforcement, a number
of factors make the entire system relatively ineffective. First, pollution fees are normally
set considerably below the costs associated with financing and operating requisite
pollution control systems. Thus, enterprises normally internalize pollution fees as part of
their operating costs and continue to pollute, since this is the most economic tactic. Also,
collection of fees is prioritized on the polluters ability to pay, rather than on its damage to
society. And since the low interest loans are granted as a matter of preference to
enterprises who paid the fees, less economic highly polluting industries are neither fined
nor do they have access to concessional financing for cleanup. Finally, major polluting
enterprises are often such a political and economic force that EPBs are under political
pressures to renegotiate pollution fees downward or relax regulations in the interest of
employment or economic development.
14.   Chongqing's largest and most polluting industry is iron and steel. The project
would support removal of Chongqing's two most polluting steel plants from a highly
populated urban setting, to achieve the goal of (a) reducing industrial pollution in the urban



- 76 -                      ANNEX 3.3
center, and (b) replacing obsolete and inefficient industrial facilities with modern highly
efficient plants that can meet both Chinese and international environmental and efficiency
standards. Feasibility studies carried out by international and local consultants and
revised during project appraisal, indicate that both relocations are environmentally,
financially and economically justifiable.
15.   Iron and Steel Sector Pollution Control Action Plan. All enterprises in the
steel sector are part of either the Chongqing Iron and Steel Company (Group) Limited
(CISCG) or the Chongqing Special Steel Company (Group) Limited (CSSC). Iron and
steel production is a major source of pollution in CM, representing 12 of 88 largest
sources of industrial air pollution, and seven of 93 largest sources of water pollution. CM
has prepared a priority Iron and Steel Sector Pollution Control Action Plan and
investment schedule consisting of eight priority investments targeted to reduce or
eliminate major pollution problems in the sector. The investments are prioritized on the
basis of environmental impact, and the first two priority investments identified in the
plan-namely shutdown of existing steel mills, and relocation/replacement with modern
nonpolluting steel-making facilities for both CISCG and CSSC-constitute the industrial
relocation component of this project. Both relocated plants will meet national, provincial
and municipal environmental regulations and Bank guidelines. Specifically, the plan
consists of (a) a list of priority mitigating measures to be taken by each iron and steel plant
to assure compliance with Chinese environnmental regulation for air, water, and solid waste
management, (b) a capital cost estimate for each measure and (c) an implementation
schedule consistent with sector restructuring objectives and environmental priorities.
16.   The projects identified in the plan (in order of priority) are presented below:
CISCG (ZICC) Steel Mill (Jiangbei)   Shutdown and relocate
CSSC Steel Mill (Shapingba)        Shutdown and relocate
CISCG Coke oven (Dadukou)          Cleanup of coke oven gas
CSSC Rolling mill (Shuangbei)      Install air and water pollution control equipment
CISCG Iron Alloy Plant (Chang Sou)  Install dust control equipment
CSSC Refractory Plant (Shuangbei)   Install dust control equipment
CISCG Blast Furnace (Jiang Jin)    Install dust control equipment
CISCG Seamless Pipe Plant (Ba Lan)  Install wastewater treatment facilities
17.   The Chongqing Special Steel Company (Group) Limited (CSSC) was
established in 1934 to produce steel blooms for further processing in CSSC's mills. Among
all Chongqing's industrial enterprises, it is the worst air polluter, the sixteenth worst water
polluter, and one of the largest producers of solid industrial wastes, which are dumped on
the banks of the Yangtze River. CSSC's 10 small highly polluting electric arc furnaces
(EAFs) at the old site would be closed, and a single modern, environmentally sound 100-
ton EAF would be located in a rural area. Resettlement of the affected population is
presently under way. The plant's capacity will be about 20 percent greater than the old
plant, a level of output justified by economic scale and market research projections. The



- 77 -                      ANNEX 3.3
proposed relocation is the highest priority action in a steel sector pollution control plan. An
EA of this relocation has been prepared by CISDI, reviewed by the Bank and approved by
NEPA.
18.   CSSC is situated on the Jialing River in the densely populated Shapingba district
and poses an immediate health hazard to the population. Ambient dust levels in this area
are about 570 micrograms/Nm3 (World Bank guidelines consider values above
100 micrograms/Nm3 polluted). On average, about 44 percent of the dust pollution and
7 percent of sulfur dioxide emissions in this district are caused by the steel plant. It is also
responsible for 19 percent of industrial wastewater discharges in the district (including
58 percent of the chemical oxygen demand and 89 percent of the oil and grease). The plant
also produces 50,000 tons/year of slag, of which less than I percent is recycled and is
simply dumped on the banks of the Jialing River, leaving an unstable tip of 700,000 tons,
which periodically slips into the river. Because of the increased production, the new plant
is expected to produce 39 percent more slag than the old plant, but 87 percent will be
reusable. A slag processing plant to be built on the old site to recycle the slag and clean up
the river bank, significantly reducing the solid waste problem and making it manageable
and environmentally acceptable.
19.   The existing plant operates ten, 10-ton EAFs and three coal-fired boilers. The
No. I and 2 EAFs at the No. I Steel-making Shop have canopy hoods to capture
particulate emissions. The capture efficiency of these hoods is approximately 40 percent
according to CSSC personnel. The eight remaining furnaces and the three coal-fired
boilers are not equipped with pollution controls. Because of their age, condition and
location, the equipment cannot be retrofitted with necessary pollution control equipment
to comply with environmental discharge standards. The existing facility has been
identified by CEPB as a priority pollution source (based on the annual mass discharge of
pollution), and by the steel industry as the highest priority polluter in their sector strategy
for pollution control (based upon impacts to human health).
20.   Installation of the modem steel-making facilities at the Jinkou Farm site, with the
pollution control systems listed below, will increase ambient levels of dust and sulfur
dioxide by less than 0.1 percent and nitrogen oxides by about 4 percent.
*  Second-hole evacuation and baghouse for dust control from the EAF, and the
refining furnace;
*  Dust and sulfur dioxide control from a proprietary scrubber of Chinese design,
sanitary and industrial wastewater control facilities to remove suspended
solids, oil and grease, chemical oxygen demand (COD), biological oxygen
demand (BOD), decreased water use (35 percent), increased water recycling
(92 percent); and
* Slag reprocessing facility to handle new slag and diminish existing slag pile.



- 78 -                        ANNEX 3.3
21.   Emission Standards for the Metallurgical Industry. Table I below lists the
emission standards that are applicable to iron and steel plants. Allowable emissions are
based on the stack height of each source since the air quality impact of a source is
dependent on plume height.
Table 1: ALLOWABLE POLLUTANT EMISSIONS FOR THE METALLURGICAL INDUSTRY
Emission rate (kg/hr)                    Concentration
Stack     Sulfur                         Hydrogen    Carbon      Lead      Dust
Height (m)   Dioxide    Fluoride    Chlorine   Chloride   Monoxide    (mg/mr)  (mg/mr)
20         -        -          2.8       1.4          -           -       -
30        52        1.8       5.1        2.5        160           -       -
45        91        -          -          -           -
50         -        4.1       12.0       5.9          -           -     2001A
60       140        -          -          -         620           -        -
80       230        -         27.0      14.0          -           -        -
100       450        -        41.0       20.0      1,700         34        -
120       670       24.0        -         -            -         47        -
/a This value applies to the particulate matter concentration in the exhaust gases from steel-making
furnaces and industrial boilers. The concentration is not dependent on stack height.
22.   Ambient Air Quality Standards. The quality standards for NOR, TSP and S02
are listed in Table 2. The standards for Chongqing are designated as Class II for rural
areas and Class III for urban areas. The standards for Class III areas are less restrictive
than the standards for Class II areas. The existing site of the CSSC is a Class III area and
the new site is a Class II area.
Table 2: AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS FOR TSP, S02 AND NOx
Concentration, mg/mi3
Pollutant           Average Time          (Class Il                         Class lll
TSP                  1-hour                 1.00                              1.50
24-hour                0.30                              0.50
Annual                 0.06                              0.10
S02                  1-hour                 0.50                              0.70
24-hour                0.15                              0.25
Annual                 0.10                              0.15
NOX                  1 -hour                0.15                              0.30
Annual a               0.11                              0.11
La     Annual average NOx air quality standard is the US standard
23.   Existing Air Quality.  Ambient concentrations of NOx, TSP and S02 were
measured at Shuang Bei, near CSSC's existing plant, and at the new site (Jinkou Farm) in
1991, 1992 and 1994. In 1991 and 1992, samples were collected four times per day
(0700, 1100 1500 and 1900) for five days in the months of January, April, July and



- 79 -                     ANNEX 3.3
October. Therefore, a total of 80 samples were collected per year for each of the three
pollutants. The duration of each sample was approximately 20 minutes. Ambient
concentrations were measured hourly in June, July and August of 1994 and the duration
of each of these samples was 20 minutes. The continuous monitoring data collected in
1994 for the months of June, July and August were averaged and this value was entered
as the July 1994 average in Table 2 for the existing new site. Comparing the July 1991,
1992 and 1994 pollutant concentrations reveals that these averages are generally
consistent.
Table 3: SUMMARY OF AMBIENT TSP, SO2 AND NOX CONCENTRATIONS FOR
THE EXISTING CSSC PLANT AND THE NEW SITE
(mg/m3)
Existing Plant                New Site
Year                            Average                     Average
Nitrogen Oxide (NO,)
1991                              0.09                         0.04
1992                              0.07                         0.04
1994
1994-Estimate                   0.10                         0.03
Annual Mean=0.09 mg/m3     Annual Mean=0.04 mg/ m3
Sulfur Dioxide (SO2)
1991                              0.24                         0.13
1992                              0.31                         0.15
1994
1994-Estimate                   0.28                         0.06
Annual Mean=0.27 mg/m3     Annual Mean=0. 11 mg/m3
Total Suspended Particulate (TSP)
1991                              0.60                         0.26
1992                              0.43                         0.28
1994
1994-Estimate                   0.67                         0.23
Annual Mean=0.57 mg/m3     Annual Mean=0.26 mg/r3
24.   Annual Average Total Suspended Particulate (TSP) Concentration for the
New Site. The analysis performed for the existing plant was repeated for the new site.
The estimated annual mean TSP concentrations for 1991, 1992 and 1994 are 0.26, 0.28
and 0.23 mg/m3. Based on this analysis, the estimated background annual mean TSP
concentration for the new site is 0.26 mg/m 3 . The annual TSP Class II air quality
standard is 0.06 mg/m3. Based on these air quality estimates, the new site is not currently
meeting the annual TSP air quality standard.



- 80 -                     ANNEX 3.3
25.   Annual Average Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) Concentration for the Existing Plant
and New Site. The annual mean estimate for 1994 for both the existing plant and the
new site were determined by use of the same procedure followed by TSP. The annual
means for 1991, 1992 and 1994 for the existing plant are 0.24, 0.31, and 0.28 mg/mr3 and
the means for the new site are 0. 13, 0.15 and 0.06 mg/m3. Based on these averages, the
annual mean SO2 concentration for the existing site is 0.27 mg/mr3 and for the new site the
annual mean is 0.11 mg/m3. The annual SO2 air quality standard for Class II and Class
III areas is 0.10 mg/m3 and 0.15 mg/m  respectively, and the new site is slightly above
the annual SO2 air quality standard.
26.   Annual Average Nitrogen Oxide (NO.) Concentration for the Existing Plant
and New Site. The same procedure that was used to estimate annual means for S02 and
TSP was applied to the NO, data. The annual mean NO, concentration for the existing
plant is 0.09 mg/m3 and for the new site the mean is 0.04 mg/m3 . An annual NOX
standard has not been established for Chongqing; therefore, the US National Ambient Air
Quality Standard (NAAQS) of 0.11 mg/m will be used. Both the existing and new site
are in compliance with this NO, standard.
27.   Air Quality Impact of the Proposed Project. The Chongqing Iron and Steel
Design Institute (CISDI) used a dispersion model approved by both NEPA and CEPB.
This is a Gaussian model and contains algorithms for complex terrain and particle
settling. The model was modified for dispersion conditions in the Chongqing area based
on the results of wind tunnel studies. The documentation and users' guide for this model
has not been translated; therefore, a model approved by the US EPA was used to verify
the results of the Chongqing dispersion model. The Industrial Source Complex Long-
Term (ISCLT2) model was used to evaluate the air quality impact of emissions from the
existing plant and the proposed new facilities. ISCLT2 is also a Gaussian model that
contains several options. The model is capable of handling multiple sources, including
point, volume and area sources. Source emission rates can be treated as constant
throughout the modeling period, or may be varied by month, season, hour of the day, or
other optional period of variation. Multiple receptor networks can be specified in a single
run, including a mix of Cartesian and Polar coordinates.
28.   The ISCLT2 model was used to evaluate three scenarios: (a) air quality impact of
the existing sources on the area outside of the existing plant and at the new site; (b) the air
quality associated with locating the new EAF and related facilities at the existing site; and
(c) the improvement in air quality at the existing site if the new EAF is located at the new
site, and the degradation in air quality to areas surrounding the new site.
29.   Air Pollution Controls. The new 100-ton EAF will use second-hole evacuation
to control emissions from the furnace. These emissions will be ducted to a baghouse.
The estimated control efficiency of this baghouse is greater than 99 percent. Emissions
of particulate matter (PM) from the Refining Furnace (RF) will be ducted to the same
baghouse. The system used to charge materials to the EAF and RF will be controlled by
a dust collector. The efficiency of this baghouse is also greater than 99 percent.



- 81-                      ANNEX 3.3
Emissions of PM and SO2 from the new boiler will be controlled by a wet scrubber. The
design of this scrubber is proprietary. The estimated control efficiency for PM is 95
percent and for SO2 the control efficiency is 80 percent. The average particulate matter
concentration in the scrubber exhaust gases is 0.08 mg/mt. The coal-feeding system to
the boiler is also controlled by a baghouse with a control efficiency greater than 99
percent.
30.   Emissions of NO., S02 and from the Existing EAFs and the New EAF. Table
4 lists the emissions from the 10 EAFs and other facilities at the existing plant along with
the planned emissions from sources at the new site. These emissions were calculated by
CSSC and CISDI. There are three steel-making shops at the existing CSSC plant. The
No. I Steel-making shop has four 10-ton EAFs and the No. I and 2 EAFs have canopy
hoods to control particulate emissions. The No. 2 and 3 Steel-making Shops each have
three 1 0-ton EAFs. None of these furnaces are equipped with air pollution controls. The
new EAF will utilize second-hole evacuation and these fumes will be ducted to a
baghouse. Emissions from the refining furnace and torch cutting of the continuous cast
billets will be exhausted to the same EAF baghouse. The boiler emissions will be ducted
to a wet scrubber that will control PM, NOX, and SO2 emissions. The total particulate
emissions from the ten 10-ton EAFs and related facilities at the existing plant are more
than 20 times greater than particulate emissions from the new facilities.
Table 4: NO,, SO2, AND TSP EMISSIONS FROM THE NEW FACILITIES AND THE
SOURCES THAT ARE SCHEDULED TO BE SHUTDOWN AT THE EXISTING CSSC PLANT
Emission Rate, Tons/Year
Source                                      TSP           SO)        NO,,
Existing CSSC Plant
No. 1 Steel-making Shop                       573           15        66
No. 2 Steel-making Shop                       863            7        44
No. 3 Steel-making Shop                     1,170          148        61
TOTAL                                    2,606          170        171
New Facilities
1 00-Ton EAF and Refining Furnace (RF)        55             3        73
Charging System for EAF and RF                  5            0         0
Coal-Fired Boiler                             41           105       584
Coal Feeding System for Boiler                  6            0         0
TOTAL                                      107          108        657
31.   Table 5 lists the S02 and PM emissions in the Shapingba District and the total
emissions from the existing plant and the proposed new facilities. The existing plant
accounts for 76 percent of the total particulate emissions in the Shuang Bei District and 7



- 82 -                      ANNEX 3.3
percent of the SO2 emissions. Particulate emissions from the new facilities account for
only 6 percent of the total for the Shapingba District.
Table 5: SUMMARY OF PARTICULATE MATTER (PM) AND SULFUR DIOXIDE (SO2)
EMISSIONS IN THE SHAPINGBA DISTRICT
(Tons/Year)
Pollutant   Shuangbei   Existing    Percent   Shapingba    New       Percent
Area       Plant     of Total     Area      Facilities   of Total
PM           3,451        2,606       76        2,352       148         6.3
SO2          2,478         170         7        7,190       157         2.2
32.   Predicted Air Quality Impact of the Existing CSSC Plant and the Proposed
New Facilities. The ISCLT2 model was executed using the same source input and
meteorological data that was used in the Chongqing model. If the estimated background
concentrations are added to the predicated air quality impacts due to emissions from the
new facilities, then an estimate of the ambient air quality after the new facilities go into
operation can be obtained. These ambient air quality levels assume that no change in
emissions from other sources will occur prior to startup of the new facilities. The
ambient air quality levels are listed in Table 6 for NO,, SO2, TSP.
Table 6: ANNUAL AVERAGE CONCENTRATIONS
(mg/mi3)
Shuang Bei Monitoring Station       Ban Bian Jie Monitoring Station
Estimated    ISCLT2     Total       Estimated    ISCLT2     Total
Background    Model    Ambient      Background    Model     Ambient
Concentration  Prediction  Concentration   Concentration  Prediction  Concentration
NO,       0.08       0.0007      0.08          0.04       0.0017      0.04
S02       0.25       0.0004      0.25          0.11      0.0001      0.11
TSP       0.32       0.0004      0.32          0.26      0.0001       0.26
33.   Industrial And Sanitary Wastewaters. The majority of sanitary and industrial
wastewater in the Shuangbei and Shapingba areas are discharged to the Jialing River
without treatment. This river is also the major source of industrial and drinking water for
the Shapingba District. The annual average flow rate is 69.41 billion m3 and the average
concentration of suspended solids is 2.37 kg/m3.  The total volume of industrial
wastewater discharged to the Jialing River from sources located in the Shuangbei and
Shapingba areas is approximately 42.6 million m3 per year. CSSC discharges the greatest
amount of chemical oxygen demand (COD) and oil and grease. The total COD discharge
per year is 4,894 tons and CSSC discharges approximately 2,852 tons, or 58 percent of



- 83 -                        ANNEX 3.3
the total. Total oil and grease discharges are 446 tons per year and CSSC discharges is
395 tons, or 89 percent of the total.
34.   The total water consumed by the existing plant is 7,909,500 m3 per year and the
expected consumption by the new plant is 5,170,000 m3 per year, a decrease of 35
percent. Except for pretreatment of the continuous caster water, there is no sanitary or
industrial wastewater treatment at the existing plant and the water recycle rate for the
caster is only 22 percent. The new plant will contain both sanitary and industrial
wastewater treatment facilities and the recycle rate for industrial water usage will increase
to 92 percent. The industrial wastewater treatment system will control suspended solids,
oil and grease and COD; the sanitary system will control suspended solids and biological
oxygen demand (BOD). It is expected that the quality of the water discharged to the
Jialing River from the wastewater treatment system will be significantly better than the
water quality of the river. The No. I monitoring station is adjacent to the new site, No. III
is adjacent to the existing site, and No II is approximately 1.5 km southwest of station
No. I. The average values of temperature, pH, oxygen, COD, BOD5, oil and grease are
presented below:
Table 7: AVERAGE WATER QUALITY AS MEASURED AT THREE SAMPLING STATIONS
ON THE JIALING RIVER
Sampling Stations
No. I              No. 11              No. III
Parameter        Low      High       Low      High        Low      High    Class III
Flow    Flow       Flow      Flow       Flow     Flow    Standard
Temperature C    12.0    28.2       12.0     28.3        12.3     28.2
pH               8.24     8.15       8.24     8.16        8.16     8.14    6.5-8.5
Dissolved        9.6      5.9        9.6      6.4        9.5       6.2    >5mg/I
02 per mg/l
COD              11.9    7.5         11.6     7.8         5.5      7.7     <15mg/I
BOD5             1.5      0.5        1.9      0.8        2.2       0.6     < 4mg/I
Oil and Grease   0.06     0.04       0.08     0.04       0.04      0.04    <0.05mg/l
35.   A modeling study was performed to deterrnine the probable effect on water
quality in the vicinity of the new and existing plant after completion of the proposed
project. These results indicate that water quality will improve slightly due to the
elimination of discharges at the existing plant and the significant reduction in discharges
at the new plant. Because contaminant loadings are quite high upstream of the new and
existing plant and the impact of the existing plant is small, water quality will not change
significantly.
36.   Noise and Noise Abatement. The three existing steel-making shops of CSSC are
located near the center of the plant and are removed from residential areas. Noise from
these facilities does not significantly impact these residential areas. The new site is
located on the Jinkou Farm. North of the proposed plant boundary is farmland and to the



- 84 -                     ANNEX 3.3
northeast and south are residential areas. The Jianling River forms the southeast border
of the plant boundary. Noise from the proposed new facilities is not expected to
significantly impact any existing residential area.
37.   Solid Wastes. Production of specialty steel at the existing site is accompanied by
the production of solid wastes such as oxide and reducing slag, scale, coal ash and waste
refractories. The majority of the slag is stored along the west bank of the Jialing River
and as the storage pile increases in height, the slag pile becomes unstable and slips into
the river. It is estimated that 700,000 tons of slag have been produced by the three steel-
making shops. Slag accounts for 84 percent of the total solid waste produced and less
than 1 percent is reused. Of the total solid waste produced, 19.5 percent is reused and this
is mainly scale.
38.   When the new 100-ton EAF goes into operation, approximately 63,000 tons/year
of solid waste will be produced. This represents an increase over the existing steel-
making facilities of 39 percent; however, 87 percent of this amount will be reused and the
amount disposed will be reduced by 78 percent. It is anticipated that 40,000 tons of slag
and 2,100 tons of scale generated at the new plant will be reused and up to 75 percent of
the coal ash will also be reused. Furthermore, a slag processing plant with a capacity of
100,000 tons/year will be built to process the slag at the existing plant and thereby
gradually reduce the amount stored, as well as slag that is inadvertently discharged into
the Jialing River. The proposed slag processing plant will be sheltered on three sides by
higher terrain, thus reducing the frequency of emissions due to windblown dust. Dust
control measures such as water sprays will be utilized to reduce emissions during slag
crushing and screening operations. A drain field will be installed in the slag yard and the
slag quench water will be collected, neutralized and recycled. The management of solid
wastes at the proposed new facilities will result in a much higher reuse rate of waste
materials and a significant decrease in the amount of wastes disposed. The Jialing River
will not be impacted by these disposal practices.
39.   Impact of the Proposed Project on Living Quality. The new facilities will be
constructed on the Jinkou Farm site. All farm worker abodes (1,014) will be replaced
with new and greatly improved housing units. The new residential area will be
constructed in the northeast corner of the Jinkou Farm site. The new abodes will be
designed to comply with the current domestic flatlet standard. These housing units will
contain a water supply, electric power, natural gas and a drainage system that is
connected to a sanitary wastewater treatment facility. Farm workers displaced by the
proposed project will become employees of CSSC, will reside in the new residential area
and will be eligible to all the benefit associated with employment by CSSC. These
workers will receive training so they can acquire the skills necessary to perform their new
jobs efficiently. The quality of the environment in the vicinity of the Jinkou Farm will
not deteriorate when the new facilities come on line. "State-of-the-art" air and water
pollution controls will ensure that no degradation in air or water quality will occur. A
resettlement action plan (RAP) satisfactory to the Bank was approved by Chongqing
Municipality on December 25, 1995 and a contract was signed with Yuzhou University



- 85 -                      ANNEX 3.3
on December 29, 1995 to carry out external monitoring of the RAP. The project
management office will supervise the activities of all entities involved in the RAP and
will liaise with the external monitor.
40.   The Zhongxing Industry and Commerce Company (ZICC) was established in
1939 to make steel for its parent company, CISCG. Its two open-hearth furnaces
representing 1940s technology have already been closed. A remaining EAF will be
closed in 1998. ZICC is located in the densely populated city center (Jiangbei district) on
the north shore of the Jialing river. Its air emissions have never been controlled and
represent a major source of air pollution in the city. The new plant will be located in
CISCG's main steel-making complex in the Dadukou district, and will produce 300,000
tons per annum (tpa) of continuous-cast steel billets for CISCG's Dadukou rolling mill.
This relocation is the second highest priority action in the steel sector pollution control
plan. An EA of the relocation has been prepared by CISDI, reviewed by the Bank and
approved by NEPA.
41.   The plant is located in the Jiangbei District on the north bank of the Jialing river
in one of the most densely populated (35,000 persons/kmi2) and highly polluted sections
of the city. Ambient dust pollution in this area is about 520 micrograms/Nm3 (World
3
Bank guidelines consider values above 100 micrograms/Nm  polluted). On the average,
about 22 percent of the dust pollution, 19 percent of NO, emissions and 17 percent of
total industrial wastewater discharges in this district are caused by the ZICC steel plant.
Also, 43,700 tons of slag are produced annually, none of which is recycled. It should also
be noted that the untreated wastewater discharges are released 1,800 meters upstream of
one of the main drinking water intakes for CM.
42.   Because of their age, condition, and location, the furnaces cannot be retrofitted
with necessary pollution control equipment to comply with environmental discharge
standards. The existing facility has been identified by CEPB as a priority pollution
source in CM (based on the annual mass discharge of pollution), and by the steel industry
as the second highest priority in their sector strategy for pollution control (based on
impacts to human health).
43.   Installation of the modern steel-making operation at the Dadukou steel complex,
with the pollution controls listed below, will not result in any increases to ambient air
pollution at the relocation site. The few emissions generated by the new facilities will be
more than offset by shutdown of several small furnaces currently operating at the new
site. In fact, there will be a net decrease in ambient dust levels of about 8 percent at the
new site. Since the new site is part of existing production operations, there are no
resettlement issues. Equipment to be acquired include:
* Large baghouse for dust control from the EAF, refining furnace, and furnace
hood exhaust gases;



- 86 -                     ANNEX 3.3
*  Cyclone separators at all solids transfer points, closed water recirculation
system for EAF, refining furnace, vaouum degasser, and casting facilities,
including solids separation, oil skimming, chemical treatment;
*  Sanitary wastewater treatment facilities-,
*  Noise suppression; and
*  Recovery and recycle approximately 84 percent of the slag.
44.   Existing Air Quality at the CISCG Hong Qiao Yuan (HQY) Plant. Ambient
concentrations of NOX, SO2, TSP were measured at three locations near the Hong Qiao
Yuan Plant. The monitoring station closest to the proposed location of the new facilities
is Second Steel and the annual average TSP concentration is 0.36 mg/m3. The Jiu Gong
Miao monitoring site is northwest of the proposed site of the new EAF. The predominant
wind direction in this area is north northwest; therefore, pollutant emissions from the
existing steel-making operations will not normally impact this monitoring station. The
Shape Steel monitoring site is east of the proposed new facilities and pollutant
concentrations at this location are similar to those measured at the Second Steel
monitoring station. The annual average TSP concentration at this station is 0.36 mg/m3.
45.   Measured concentrations of NOX, and SO2, at the Shape and Second Steel sites are
similar and concentrations of these two pollutants are somewhat less at the Jiu Gong
Miao monitoring site. The annual average TSP, NON, and SO2 concentrations at the site
of the new facilities are best represented by the measured values at the Second Steel and
Shape Steel monitoring station. Therefore, the annual ambient average TSP, NOR, and
SO2 concentrations at the proposed site of the new EAF and related facilities are 0.36,
0.33, and 0.049 mg/M3, respectively.
46.   Existing Air Quality at the ZICC Plant. Continuous monitoring data were
collected in 1994 for the months of June, July and August at the monitoring station
located near the ZICC plant. The average pollutant concentrations for each of the three
months are presented in Table 8.
Table 8: MEASURED POLLUTANT CONCENTRATIONS NEAR THE ZICC PLANT
(mg/m3)
Pollutant                                    June          July      August
Total Suspended Particulate, TSP             0.55         0.51          0.55
Sulfur Dioxide, SO2                          0.10         0.10          0.09
Nitrogen Oxide, NO,                          0.08         0.07          0.08



- 87 -                     ANNEX 3.3
47.   Air Quality Impact of Proposed Project. The ISCLT2 model approved by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency, was used to evaluate air quality based
on emissions from the existing plant and predicated emissions from the proposed
facilities. The model was used to evaluate four scenarios: (a) the air quality impact due
to emissions from the sources that are scheduled to be shut down at the ZICC plant;
(b) the air quality impact due to emissions from the sources that are scheduled to be
shutdown at the HQY plant; (c) the air quality of the new EAF and related facilities at the
HQY plant; and (d) the net air quality impact resulting from emissions from the proposed
new facilities and the emission reductions associated with the shutdown sources at the
ZICC and HQY plants. Table 9 below shows the change in pollutant emissions resulting
from the shutdown of existing facilities and addition to the new steel-making plant.
Table 9: POLLUTANT EMISSIONS
(Tons/Year)
Source                   Particulate Matter   Sulfur Dioxide    Nitrogen Oxide
ZIC Idled Sources             3,789               76              260
HQY Idled Sources              144                14                4
HQY New Sources                137                26               65
Emissions Decrease            3,796               64              199
Percent Decrease                96.5%             71%              75%
48.   Air Pollution Controls. The new 60-ton EAF will use second-hole evacuation to
control emissions from the furnace. These emissions will be ducted to a baghouse. The
estimated control efficiency of this baghouse greater than 99 percent. Emissions of
particulate matter (PM) from the Refining Furnace (RF) will be ducted to the same
baghouse. The system used to charge materials to the EAF and RF will be controlled by
a dust collector.  The efficiency of this baghouse is also greater than 99 percent.
Emissions from the stock bin during raw material handling and transfer operations will be
controlled by a baghouse with a control efficiency greater than 99 percent.  The
concentration of particulate matter in the baghouse exhaust will be less than 50 mg/Nm3.
49.   Table 10 indicates that ambient air quality will improve when the ZICC sources
are idled. Because emissions of SO2 and NO. are negligible from the ZICC plant, only
the results for TSP are presented. Predicated annual average TSP concentrations were
calculated by use of the ISCLT2 dispersion model. The difference between the measured
concentration and the model prediction at each location represents the air quality that will
result after ZICC is shut down. The improvement is greatest southeast of the ZICC plant
due to the prevailing NNW and NW winds. The overall improvement to TSP air quality
ranges from 6 to 51 percent.
50.   Water discharge at the new plant will be 72.1 m3 per hour with 95.2 percent
recirculated. Wastewater treatment will control suspended solids, COD, grease and oil.



- 88 -                     ANNEX 3.3
A sanitary system will control suspended solids and BOD. Water returned to the Yangtze
River will be of significantly better quality than the intake water. Table 11 lists the
expected concentration of suspended solids (SS), oil and grease and CODs in the waste
water discharge from the proposed new facilities. These concentrations meet or exceed
the National and Chongqing discharge standards for these three pollutants.
Table 10: MEASURED AND PREDICATED ANNUAL AVERAGE TSP CONCENTRATIONS IN
THE VICINITY OF THE ZICC PLANT
Distance and                                         Measured-
Direction from      Measured        Predicated       Predicated      Percent
ZICC Sources      Concentrition    Concentrftion    Concentration    Change
(jig/mr)        (jig/m )         (jg/m3)
400m NEla             520               75              445            14
200m WSW              520              106              414           20
300m WNW              520               79              441           15
400m NW               520               33              487             6
300m SE               520              264              256           51
600m SE               520              135              385           26
la Location and measured annual average TSP concentration at the ZICC monitoring
site. This annual average concentration was assumed to be representative of the other
locations in the vicinity of the ZICC plant.
Table 11: PROCESS WASTEWATER DISCHARGES AND CHINESE WASTEWATER
DISCHARGE STANDARDS FOR THE PROPOSED PROJECT
Chinese        Pollutant
Concentration      Discharge       Discharge
Source         Pollutants          (mg/l)       Standard la (mg/l)    Tons/Yr
All Process     SS                   <70              70           4.4
Sources        Oil and Grease         <8              10           1.01
COD                  <10             100           63.2
la There are no World Bank effluent limitations for these process sources (vacuum
degassing and continuous casting machine).
51.   Noise from the present facilities does not significantly affect residential areas and
no effect is expected from the proposed plant. Slag, roll scales, coal ash and used
refractories are solid waste products of steel-making. About 84 percent of total slag will
be recovered and recycled. Roll scale and coal ash will also be recycled in the new plant.
The Yangtze River will not be adversely affected by the disposal practices for the residue.



-89 -                      ANNEX 3.3
52.   CSSC and CISCG/ZICC have environmental protections departments whose
function it is to: (a) develop recordkeeping procedures and inspect polluting control
equipment and make recommendations to improve its performance.; (b) provide
environmental training and education to operator personnel; (c) conduct research to
further reduce pollutant emissions and wastewater discharges; (d) do source testing of
waste gas volume, particulate matter and S02 four times per year; (e) measure noise
generated by the EAF, baghouse fans and exhaust; (f) sample the main outfall from the
wastewater treatment plants for pH, COD, suspended solids, oil and grease; (g) measure
TSP and SO2 levels in January, April, July and October, with sampling performed for
three days and four times per day; and (h) monitor ambient noise levels once per year for
three days.
53.   As part of the project preparation, four environmental studies financed by the
Japanese government were carried out to assess the adequacy of CM's environmental
management practices, monitoring networks and regulatory structure. An Air quality
management study provides designs and associated costs for an ambient air quality
monitoring network and an emission monitoring program in Chongqing. In addition, it
assesses the adequacy of the existing regulatory framework for air pollution control in
Chongqing to achieve the ambient air quality standards in the urban area. SO2 and
suspended particulate matter are the major sources of air pollutants in Chongqing. The
study found that the existing industrial emission standards for SO2 are not adequate to
achieve the Class III (least stringent) annual average ambient standard for S02 in
Chongqing. The study also found that nonindustrial sources (primarily cooking stoves)
are major contributors to ground-level ambient concentrations of SO2 . The study
concludes that an industrial control strategy alone is insufficient to produce acceptable air
quality.
54.   The study considers least-cost means for reducing emissions of S02 . For the
industrial sector, it recommends initiating a program of boiler efficiency improvements or
restricting boiler emissions. For nonindustrial sources, the study recommends a broad
strategy of switching fuels from coal to either natural gas, sulfur-fixed briquettes, or
electricity. The study concludes that application of these two control measures in the first
five years of a control strategy will achieve 78 to 80 percent of air quality improvement
required in most polluted areas. Acid deposition, another harmful by-product of coal
burning, is severe in Chongqing, as indicated by pH measurements of rainwater in and
around the city. The acidity of rainwater in Chongqing occurs mainly as a result of the
scavenging of air pollutants as rain falls through the pollution layer, rather than as a result
of long-range transport of acidic compounds.
55.   The water quality management study provides designs and associated costs for
an ambient water quality monitoring network for the Yangtze and Jialing river in
Chongqing, and for an effluent monitoring programn. In addition, it assesses the adequacy
of the existing regulatory framework for water pollution control in Chongqing to achieve
ambient water quality standards in the two rivers within and below the city. It predicts
the likely impact on wate quality of construction of the Three Gorges Dam.



-90 -                      ANNEX 3.3
56.   Currently, the water quality standards for COD, BOD, ammonia and oil are
exceeded at one or more water supply intakes on the Jialing River; water quality
standards for phenol and oil are exceeded at one or more water supply intakes on the
Yangtze River. If all effluents were treated to met the existing effluent standards, the
water quality at the municipal water supply intakes would meet the water quality
standards for all pollutants except oil (owing to high background concentration
upstream).
57.   An analysis was made of the water quality implications of the existing effluent
standards for discharges that are predicted for the year 2010, after the Three Gorges Dam
has been completed. It is projected that the concentrations of pollutants at the municipal
water supply intakes along the Jialing and Yangtze river will be higher than
concentrations in 1993. Nonetheless, the concentrations of pollutants in the two rivers
both within the city and below the small towns will meet Class III water quality standards
with some exceptions; concentrations of phenols, oil, COD, BOD5, and ammonia-
nitrogen will all exceed the standard at some of the water supply intakes. The study
concludes that the existing industrial effluent standards, if rigorously applied, are
stringent enough to safeguard river water quality in the Yangtze and Jialing rivers in
terms of industrial pollution until 2010 and after commissioning of the Three Gorges
Dam. However, a major program to treat municipal wastewaters will be required to meet
overall water quality standards in both rivers.
58.   Assessment of the Regulatory Framework Pollution Control in Chongqing
examines the effectiveness of the regulatory framework for industrial air and water
pollution control in Chongqing. It assesses the adequacy of the existing environmental
laws, programs, and regulations in Chongqing; of compliance monitoring programs for
controlling industrial pollution; and of enforcement of environmental regulations. The
purpose of the study is to identify changes in the environmental regulatory framework
that will be needed to improve its effectiveness in achieving the environmental standards
in Chongqing.
59.   Two national environmental programs have been especially successful in
pollution prevention and treatment in Chongqing. They are the "Three Synchronizations"
Program and the Pollution Levy System. Approximately 70 percent of all environmental
investments in Chongqing are a direct result of the Three Synchronizations program. The
pollution levy system has produced the second largest investment in industrial pollution
control in Chongqing; it has also provides financial support to CEPB and the local EPBs.
However, the study notes that requiring individual plants to install treatment facilities
may preclude the more cost-effective construction of centralized treatment, and
enterprises continue to pay fees and fines because they are lower than the marginal cost of
building treatment facilities.
60.   Although the existing compliance monitoring program in Chongqing covers big
polluters generating approximately 80 percent of the total pollution load in the urban area
and meets the basic requirements specified by NEPA, it is not adequate to detect smaller



-91-                       ANNEX3.3
violations of emission and effluent standards. Both the frequency of monitoring and the
rate of coverage of industrial enterprises are inadequate.  This has led to weak
enforcement of environmental regulations and standards. An expansion of the monitoring
program by the municipal and local EPBs, and the expansion of self-monitoring by
industries is recommended.
61.   The study concludes by acknowledging that the effectiveness of the regulatory
framework for industrial air and water pollution control is closely linked to economic and
social conditions in Chongqing, and to economic and social development policies. To
achieve the environmental goals and targets in Chongqing over the long term, an
integrated approach to economic development and environmental management will be
needed.
62.   An air pollution health impacts study, still in progress, is examining the health
effects, including morbidity, mortality, and reproduction associated with high
concentrations of air pollutants in Chongqing. Data from 1993 confirms that Chongqing
has some of the highest ambient concentrations of TSP and SO2 in the world, far in
excess of World Health Organization recommended limits. Based on data from 1993, a
highly significant association of increased cardiovascular disease mortality was found
with ambient concentrations of particulates (40 percent increase for 100 jig/m3 increase),
SO2 (23 percent increase for 100 j.g/m3 increase) and NO, (37 percent increase for 20 gg/
m3 increase).  Independent measurements of fine particles (PM1O/PM25) and sulfur
dioxide were taken in different air quality zones in the city in Summer and Winter, and
correlated with cross-sectional health survey data gathered from 3,500 adults and 300
primary school children. Among other findings, a significant association was found
between air pollution and reduced pulmonary function. A 12-month study of ambient air
pollution and the association of hospital admissions, emergency room visits, and daily
mortality was begun in February 1995. Preliminary results from the most recent time-
series analysis confirm the correlation between high concentrations of particulates and
sulfur and excess deaths and health impacts in Chongqing. The study is expected to be
finalized in August 1996.
63.   Based on these studies, and with Bank support, CM has embarked on a program
to strengthen its environmental regulatory framework, particularly its planning,
monitoring and enforcement capabilities. As a matter of priority, the planning process
has focused on iron and steel, industry's most polluting sector. Implementation of an
Iron and Steel Sector Pollution Control Action Plan (see paras. 15-16) is receiving
major support under the Chongqing project's industrial relocation component. The steel
sector plan is a first step in preparing a pollution control plan for the industrial sector as a
whole. The project is providing technical assistance to assist CEPB to prepare such a
plant. The project also supports the development of a regulatory enforcement action plan,
which will be the vehicle for implementing the main recommendations of the study to
assess Chongqing's regulatory framework, discussed above.



-92 -                       ANNEX 3.3
64.   CM has successfully implemented a permit system for controlling major industrial
wastewater polluters, and has achieved significant reductions in industrial pollutant loads.
The main environmental problem in the industrial sector is air pollution, which has
considerably worsened over the last 10 years, primarily from the rapidly growing energy
use from boilers fueled by high-sulfur coal. Waste gases from industrial processes
(particularly metallurgical, pharmaceutical, and chemical industries) are also a major air
pollution source. In consequence, major efforts have to be made to control and reduce air
pollution loads; and the two steel plant relocations provide an important demonstration
effect (paras. 3.12-3.14). Also, CM is just beginning, with the help of technical
assistance under this project, to deal with the problem of solid and hazardous waste
pollution. The steel sector pollution control plan, discussed above, is therefore simply the
first step to preparing an Industrial Pollution Control Strategy and Plan for the
industrial sector as a whole. With the assistance of international consultants, CEPB
would (a) review ambient air, water quality and pollution source data bases , (b) identify
industrial enterprises that contribute 90 percent of industrial pollution as priority
polluters, and (c) evaluate costs and prepare least-cost solutions for the priority list.
Detailed Terms of Reference are provided in Annexes 3.3, 3.4 and 3.5.
65.   An Environmental Regulatory Enforcement Action Plan has been developed
to include the following measures: (a) enforcement of the CEPB registration requirement
for industrial projects; (b) compliance with EIA requirements; (c) adding air quality
standards for lead and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, (d) implementing municipal
regulations establishing an S02 emission levy system; (e) implementing new state
regulations applying the levy system to all pollutants exceeding standards;
(f) enforcement of the "third synchronization" monitoring of pollution control measures;
and (g) increasing the number of enterprises monitored and the amount/collection of levy
charges.
66.   Associated GEF Project.  The proposed project is linked to the Efficient
Industrial Boilers Project supported by the Global Environmental Facility (GEF). Both
projects involve the restructuring and modernization of heavy industry with the explicit
intention of (a) improving efficient energy use, (b) lowering emissions of both
greenhouse gases and air pollutants, and (c) promoting least-cost alternatives for pollution
control. The GEF project seeks to reduce pollution and improve energy efficiency of
small and medium coal-fired industrial boilers by acquiring foreign advanced technology,
adapting it to Chinese conditions, and broadly disseminating it throughout China.
Chongqing, which has some of the highest ambient concentrations of SO2 in the world,
can significantly reduce both sulfur and particulate emissions through the adoption of
more energy-efficient and cleaner industrial boilers. According to CM, small and
medium boilers account for as much as one-half of the municipality's coal consumption
and associated air pollution. CM has therefore embarked on a program to implement a
municipalitywide SO2 pollution levy system.



93-                       ANNEX 3.4
ANNEX 3.4: TERMS OF REFERENCE:
HAZARDOUS WASTE INVENTORY AND HAZARDOUS
WASTE DATA MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
1.    Background. A law governing prevention and control of solid and hazardous
waste was adopted by the Sixteenth Meeting of the Eighth National People's Congress on
October 30, 1995. It is expected to become effective in April 1996. Once the law on
hazardous wastes becomes effective, it will become the responsibility of the Chongqing
Environmental Protection Bureau (CEPB) to implement it in Chongqing Municipality
(CM). It is estimated that approximately 600,000 tons of such materials are generated
annually in CM. Industry is the primary generator of these wastes, although smaller
amounts may be associated with other sectors (e.g., hospitals, laboratories, etc.). At
present, little if any hazardous wastes are believed to be collected, transported, and
disposed in a manner that may be considered environmentally acceptable.
2.    A first step in implementing the law on hazardous waste is the establishment of a
data base reflecting existing conditions , and a monitoring framework that can be used to
regularly update the data base.
3.    Objective. The overall objective of this assignment is for the Consultant to assist
CEPB in establishing a data base on current hazardous waste management practices in
CM and developing a computerized system to keep the data base up to date. To achieve
this objective, the Consultant will focus on the following tasks:
-  Task A. Assess current hazardous waste management practices and identify
data needs;
*  Task B. Prepare a hazardous waste inventory;
*  Task C. Establish a hazardous waste data base, a monitoring and reporting
program and an automated system for data base management; and
*  Task D. Define CEPB's institutional needs to maintain and update the
hazardous waste data base.
4.    Manner of Study Conduct. It is expected that the Consultant will work closely
with counterparts from CEPB in order to obtain and analyze requisite data, secure
information relating to enterprise hazardous waste management practices, and obtain
approvals for site visits to specific enterprises. CEPB will establish a Task Force to work
directly with the Consultant for the duration of the assignment.



94-                         ANNEX 3.4
Task A: Assess Current Hazardous Waste Management Practices and Identify Data
Needs
5.    The Consultant will review any hazardous waste surveys carried out to date, and
organize the information in terms of hazardous waste generation, temporary storage,
transport, and disposal practices. He should pay particular regard to data collection
and/or reporting procedures, definition and classification of hazardous waste, sampling
and analytical methods used, and data on industrial classification and location in
Chongqing Municipality.
6.    Based upon a review of this information, the Consultant will establish critical data
elements in the earlier surveys that were either not collected or are of questionable
validity. He will then develop a methodology for a supplementary survey to identify,
characterize and quantify hazardous waste management practices that were not
adequately addressed previously (this can usually be determnined by mass balance,
production schedules, transporter records, etc.).
7.    The survey is to include sources of hazardous wastes not likely to have been
covered in earlier surveys, e.g., hospitals, pharmacies, research laboratories, etc., and pay
particular attention to on-site storage/disposal practices, transport practices, and ultimate
disposal or treatment schemes. It should consist of two elements: questionnaires and site
visits.
8.    The Consultant will design both: (a) questionnaire(s) to be sent to hazardous
waste generators, transporters, and disposal/treatment facilities, and (b) hazardous waste
management evaluation site survey data sheet(s) to be used by CEPB staff in conjunction
with their site visits to the aforementioned facilities.
9.    Both questionnaire and site survey data sheets should include, but not be limited
to, details (flow rate and chemical composition) about raw materials, intermediate
products, by-products, and main products, storage facilities (volume, safety and
environment protection measures, age, physical condition, etc.), transporter details (loads
carried, frequency, container integrity, driver experience/training, etc.) and treatment/
disposal characteristics (appropriateness of technology, performance level relative to
environment, health and safety standards, etc.). Information collected should include
laboratory capabilities, sampling, monitoring and analytic procedures and reporting
procedures, as well as the age and condition of the equipment and facilities.
10.   The Consultant will design a program of site visits and questionnaire mailings to
collect necessary information for the preparation of the hazardous waste inventory. Site
visits should give priority to facilities known or suspected of requiring significant
attention to hazardous waste management.
11.   The Consultant will then accompany the CEPB Task Force on the site visits and
provide field training in the conduct of site surveys and use of site survey data sheets
prepared under Task A.



-95 -                      ANNEX 3.4
Task B: Prepare a Hazardous Waste Inventory
12.   Based upon the information collected, the Consultant should prepare an inventory
of hazardous waste management in Chongqing Municipality. The report should include
statistical data on arnounts and types generated, sources (by specific enterprise, and
sector), current practices (by amount and type of waste) for storage, transport, disposal]
treatment, and fines/levies imposed and collected.
13.   A section of the inventory should include statistical information on data
collection, and reporting: actual analysis versus estimated values, monitoring and
reporting frequency, understanding of which wastes are to be considered hazardous,
inclusion of all potential sources, levels of quality control and quality assurance practiced
by various entities involved with hazardous waste.
14.   The inventory should include details on gaps and uncertainties in collected data.
Task C: Establish a Hazardous Waste Data Base, a Monitoring and Reporting
Program and an Automated System for Data Base Management
15.   Based upon the survey results, and the data gaps identified, the Consultant should
establish data reporting and monitoring requirements for management of hazardous
wastes in CM.
16.   The Consultant should then examine CEPB hardware and software capabilities as
well as staff skills for data storage and report generation. He should then develop the
necessary computer software for a hazardous waste data management system to process,
and store, at least the following basic data:
* Inventory of hazardous waste generators and sources
*  Inventory of temporary waste storage facilities
*  Inventory of waste transporters
*  Inventory of waste treatment/disposal facilities
*  Analysis and monitoring
*  Penalties and levies imposed/collected
17.   The Consultant should then collaborate with CEPB in determining their data
reporting needs and design the software output/report generation system to satisfy these
needs.
18.   He should then test the software, operationalize it and train select CEPB staff in
its maintenance and use.



-96 -                      ANNEX3.4
Task D: Define CEPB's Institutional Needs to Maintain and Update the Hazardous
Waste Data Base
19.   The Consultant should prepare two programs, one for institutional strengthening
and the second for monitoring. The monitoring program should be designed so that at the
time hazardous waste management legislation is officially adopted, it can readily be
adapted into an enforcement program.
20.   Items for each element of the action program should include, but not be limited to
the following:
Institutional Strengthening
*  Identify necessary skills, and technical staff needed to perform monitoring and
reporting.
*  Prepare a training schedule for skills acquisition. Specify venue (local or
international), institutions, type (course instruction, study tour, international
consultant deployed to CM etc.), and costs (local, foreign).
*  Prepare an inventory of equipment needs for sampling, monitoring, and
analyzing hazardous wastes, consistent with the number of technical staff to
be trained. Provide cost estimates (foreign/local) for both acquisition of this
equipment, and its continued maintenance including quality assurance and
quality control.
Monitoring and Reporting
*  Prepare an annual program of site visits and questionnaire mailings for CEPB
to update their hazardous waste inventory and maintain the hazardous waste
data base current. The program should be specific for each generator, storer,
transporter and operator of disposal/treatment facilities for hazardous waste.
It should include, but not be limited to: frequency of visit to each enterprise,
frequency of questionnaire mailing to each enterprise, nature of information to
be collected (new, updated, confirmatory), instrumentation to be taken (site
visit), and number of technicians to be deployed (site visit).
*  The program of site visits and questionnaire mailings should be based upon
the amount and degree of risk associated with the hazardous wastes involved
at a particular facility or operation, and an assessment as to the degree to
which appropriate hazardous waste management procedures have been found
on the previous site visit.



- 97 -                     ANNEX 3.5
ANNEX 3.5: TERMS OF REFERENCE:
CONSULTANT SERVICES FOR A HAZARDOUS WASTE SITE
SELECTION STUDY FOR
CHONGQING MUNICIPALITY
1.    Background. There are no regulations in China for disposal of hazardous wastes.
It is estimated that approximately 600,000 tons of such materials are generated annually
in Chongqing Municipality (CM) from  the industrial sector.   Disposal is the
responsibility of the generator, and few generators are willing to incur the additional time
or expense for proper disposal. Therefore, little if any hazardous wastes are disposed of
in a manner that is considered environmentally acceptable.
2.    Under the new law on solid and hazardous wastes, CEPB is charged with the
responsibility of implementing the law in CM.
3.    The services requested herein will help CEPB identify suitable locations in CM
that can accommodate the volumes and types of hazardous wastes identified in the
hazardous waste inventory prepared under separate terms of reference.
4.    Objectives. The objectives of this support effort are as follows:
*  Develop a suitable set of criteria, and ranking system upon which to base the
selection of hazardous wastes disposal sites; and
*  Identify several potential sites in CM that satisfy these criteria and that can be
developed to meet the hazardous waste disposal requirements of CM for the
next 10 years.
5.    Manner of Study Conduct.  The work effort is to be divided between an
international consultant and a Chinese consultant. The international consultant will be
responsible for planning the work effort, identifying data needs, and preparing the
English version documentation.  The Chinese consultant will be responsible for
identifying Chinese institutions that are likely to have the required data, assisting the
international consultant in data collection and analysis, and preparation of the Chinese
version reports.
6.    The scope of services to be provided include the tasks listed below. Detailed
descriptions of the level of effort follow.
* Task 1. Review results of hazardous waste inventory



- 98 -                     ANNEX 3.5
* Task 2. Establish site selection criteria and evaluation scheme
* Task 3. Collect necessary data for site evaluation
* Task 4. Identify candidate sites
Scope of Services
Task 1: Review Results of Hazardous Waste Inventory
7.    The Consultant will review the Hazardous Waste Inventory prepared under
separate Terms of Reference, which would have identified major generators of hazardous
wastes in CM, their physical location, and amounts and types of wastes they produce
annually. The Consultant should categorize types of wastes by an internationally
recognized classification scheme for hazardous waste (e.g., UNEP, UNDP, WHO, etc.).
Such schemes normally distinguish hazardous waste on the basis of their physical,
chemical and/or biological activity (e.g., organic, inorganic, toxic, flammable, reactive,
explosive, radioactive, bioactivity, etc.). The amounts of wastes produced annually in
each category by each enterprise should be summarized.
Task 2: Establish Site Selection Criteria and Evaluation Scheme:
8.    The Consultant will establish a set of criteria upon which to base the site selection
process. The criteria should include, but not be limited to, the following items:
* Maximum potential volume of wastes that can be accommodated,
* Land area required
* Location of groundwater table
* Direction/flow rate of groundwater
* Current/projected uses of groundwater ( well location and withdrawal
rate)
* Underlying geologic structure (including permeability and reactivity)
* Mineral resources
* Proximity to:
* Protected and/or ecologically significant areas (wetlands, critical
habitats, rare/endangered species, forest preserves etc.)



- 99 -                        ANNEX 3.5
*  Infrastructure  elements  (power/transmission  lines, water supply
pipelines, gas or oil pipelines, sewage pipelines, rail lines, highways,
airports, etc.)
*  Sources of hazardous waste generators
*  Residential areas (existing or planned)
*  Surface waters (current, and projected with completion of Three
Gorges)
* Current and projected water use
* Current and projected flood levels
*  Structures of significant cultural, religious, historical, archaeological,
political interest
*  Sensitive receptors (hospitals, schools etc.)
* Seismicity
- Prevailing wind direction
- Site preparation requirements (including access road development)
- Cost estimate, time necessary to prepare site
9.     With the above criteria, and any additions the Consultant deems appropriate, the
Consultant will formulate a site evaluation scheme. A common scheme for example is to
assign relative weights to each criteria based upon an assessment of its relative
importance, and utilize these weights in assigning scores for each criteria. Candidate
sites are then selected on the basis of their overall scores. The Consultant may select
other evaluation schemes , if they are deemed more appropriate.
10.   The Consultant will meet with appropriate authorities in CM (e.g., Planning, Land
Use, etc.) to review current and future land use plans for CM and existing and potentially
available locations within CM which may be considered in the site selection analysis.
Task 3: Collect Necessary Data
11.   The siting criteria developed in Task 2 will establish requirements of a data base
upon which to identify potential sites (see Task 4). The Consultant should prepare a list
of all data needs (e.g., water table levels throughout CM before and after completion of
Three Gorges Dam, geologic maps, seismicity maps, etc.). The list of data requirements
should then be discussed with officials of CEPB who should then provide
recommendations for the likely institutions (State, Provincial, and Municipal) who collect



- 100 -                     ANNEX 3.5
and/or receive this data. The Consultant should supplement CEPB recommendations
with his own knowledge of Chinese institutions.
12.   The Consultant should then collect all necessary data identified from the siting
criteria from the institutions. Any data that are unavailable, or are not collected should be
noted, and discussed in the Consultant's report.
Task 4: Identify Candidate Sites for Hazardous Wastes Disposal
13.   The Consultant should review data collected in Task 3, and identify a sufficient
number of potential sites to accommodate at least twice the estimated amounts of any
category of hazardous wastes anticipated for the next 10 years ( i.e., if 10,000 tons are
expected, than disposal capacity for 20,000 tons should be included). Requiring twice the
amount of storage should provide sufficient margin of protection if some of the selected
sites are not available.
14.   Not all hazardous wastes are compatible. In some instances, mixing two types of
hazardous wastes (e.g., sodium cyanide and hydrochloric acid) can lead to by-products
(deadly cyanide gas) that are more dangerous than the original waste. Therefore, the
Consultant may require several disposal sites (or several physically isolated "cells" at a
given disposal site) for categories of hazardous wastes that cannot be mixed together.
15.   Priority lists of candidate sites should be prepared for each category of compatible
waste.
Reporting
16.   At the completion of each Task, the Consultant should prepare a report describing
the results obtained, any problems encountered, and a schedule for the remaining work
program.
17.   At the completion of all Tasks, a draft final report should be prepared in both
Chinese and English for review by officials of CEPB and the World Bank, respectively.
The report should describe the work program, major findings, conclusions and
recommendations. Any data gaps should be identified and recommendations made on
which data are to be collected, and how they are to be collected analyzed and reported.
Uncertainties introduced by the existing data gaps should be discussed in terms of how
they might influence the Consultants' siting recommendations .



-101-                                     ANNEX 3.6
ANNEX 3.6: REGULATORY REFORM ACTION PLAN
Reporting
No.      Objectives           Actions to be taken                Schedule                Requirements/Indicators
I  Registration of new  ' CEPB establishes mechanism    ' One month after Bank loan  * Number of firms registering
industrial projects    to receive all approved project   effectiveness           with CEPB
with CEPB            applications from:
municipal/district planning
commissions or municipal/
district economic commissions
* CEPB will petition Sichuan    ' By December 31, 1996        Total penalties collected
Provincial Govemment to
establish a penalty for failure to
register
Number of firms failing to
* CEPB sets up MIS tracking   * Six months after Bank loan    register with CEPB
system                        effectiveness
2  Increase compliance * CEPB sets up MIS tracking   * Six months after Bank loan
of industrial projects  system                     effectiveness
with environment
impact assessment    --Enterprise notification     One month after registration    Number of firms informed of
(EIA) regulations                                                                EIAIEIF requirement
-- EIA/EIF deadline to firms    -- Three to six months after  Number of firms preparing
notification                  EIA/EIF
-- Waming                   --One month after deadline    Number of firms required to
prepare EIA/EIF but did not
-- Penalty (Y 10,000-50,000)   -One month after waming    Total penalties collected
3  Air quality standards * Standards to be adopted by  ' By December 31, 1996
for lead and poly-  CEPB.
cyclic aromatic    * CEPB submits monitoring plan ' September 1996             * Send monitoring plan to Bank
hydrocarbons        for lead, PAH. Plan to include:                              for approval
(PAHs)              --Number of sites                                          * Results of air quality
--Location of sites/reason                                  monitoring (Pb, PAH) at all
--Frequency of measurement                                  sites
--Method of measurement
* CEPB implements monitoring  * By December 31, 1997        * All monitoring data compared
________________  plan                                                       to new  standards
4  Reduce sulfur      * Implement plan establishing    * Commencing July 1, 1996   ' Number of enterprises
dioxide (SO2) boiler   SO2 emission levy system                                  monitored
emissions                                                                      ' Annual revenues from the SO2
emission levy
5  Enforce Third Syn-  * CEPB implements enforcement * Six months after Bank Loan    * Number of approvals for:
chronization         program                       effectiveness                 - First synchronization
* Number of firms verified for:
- Second synchronization
- Third synchronization
6  Increase pollution   * CEPB submits five-year plan   * One month after Bank Loan    ' Send plan to Bank
levy collections    for increasing pollution levy  effectiveness
collections
* CEPB implements five year    ' One month after Bank approval 0 Comparison of targets with
plan for increasing pollution  of plan                      actual performance:
levy collections                                            - Number of firms monitored
- Number of firms to be                                       for emissions
monitored for gaseous                                       - Number of firms monitored
emissions                                                   for effluents
- Number of firms to be                                       - Total number of firms
monitored for liquid effluents                              noncomplying
- Total number of firms to be                                 - Average levy
monitored                                                   collected/noncompliant firm
- Average levy to be collected                                - Total levies collected
from each noncompliant ftrm



- -102 -                     ANNEX 3.7
ANNEX 3.7: TERMS OF REFERENCE:
PREPARATION OF AN INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL
PLAN
1.    Background. Chongqing Municipality (CM) is situated in Sichuan Province and
is a large heavily industrialized and heavily polluted jurisdiction at the confluence of the
Yangtze and Jialing rivers.
2.    A World Bank project has been prepared to assist CM  in their program of
industrial restructuring and industrial pollution control. As part of this program, CM has
identified the iron and steel sector as a major polluter in CM. To control pollution in the
iron and steel sector, an industrial relocation subcomponent that consists of shutting down
obsolete polluting steel production capacity of two plants where they are responsible for
major air pollution impacts, and their replacement/relocation with new modem
nonpolluting steel production capacity in unpolluted areas.  These two shutdown,
relocation and replacement riieasures are the two priority action items in an overall plan
Chongqing Municipality (CM) has prepared to control pollution in the iron and steel
sector of CM.
3.    This study will produce an overall industrial pollution control plan for all
remaining industrial sectors in CM.
4.    Under an environmental subcomponent of the World Bank project, assistance will
be provided to CEPB for several activities that are to be used in the preparation of this
plan. These activities include:
(a)   expanding and modernizing the ambient air quality (AQ) monitoring
network CM;
(b)   expanding the water quality monitoring network and improving ambient
water quality (WQ) sampling and analysis capabilities of CEPB;
(c)   enhancing CEPB capacity for source monitoring of industrial enterprises
for gaseous emissions to the atmosphere and liquid discharges to surface
waters for increased enforcement of environmental discharge standards;
(d)   establishing a hazardous waste inventory and data management system;
(e)   identifying suitable sites in CM for hazardous waste disposal; and
(f)   establishing and operationalizing an environmental audit (EA) unit in
CEPB.



-103 -                      ANNEX 3.7
5.    Items (d), (e) and (f) are subjects of separate Terms of Reference.
6.    Assistance to be provided herein is intended to utilize the information produced
from the six activities identified in para. 4 in preparing the industrial pollution control
plan for CM.
7.    Objective. Objectives of this assignment are to prepare a plan for reducing major
environmental impacts from industrial pollution in CM for the ninth five-year plan
starting in 1996, and introduce CEPB to procedures for establishing enforcement
priorities for control pollution in the industrial sector.
8.    To achieve the objectives, the Consultant will work closely with CEPB staff on
the tasks identified below, and subsequently discussed in greater detail:
* Task A. Review air and water quality data bases
* Task B. Review industrial enterprise source monitoring data base and
hazardous waste inventory
D Task C. Identify industrial enterprises that contribute to 90 percent of
industrial pollution discharges to air, water, and hazardous waste
* Task D. Evaluate pollution control costs and economic viability for priority
industrial polluters
D Task E. Prepare an industrial pollution control plan including a schedule of
actions and implementation timetable
9.    Work Program. The study will start after one year of ambient air and water
quality monitoring data with the new equipment has been obtained, the hazardous waste
inventory and site selection studies have been completed, and the EA Unit in CEPB is
operational. All of these data will be required to prepare this plan. Therefore, it is
expected that CEPB will establish a Task Force to work with Consultants for the duration
of the assignment (six months). Consultants for this study will be Chinese technical
specialists.
Task A: Review of air and water quality data base
10.   The Consultant will review information collected from the continuous ambient air
quality monitoring network and ambient water quality monitoring program. The data
should represent at least one year of continuous air quality measurements from the
modem monitoring network and one year of water quality measurements from the
expanded network . In conjunction with these data, the Consultant should also review
information collected from the meteorological stations ( included as part of the air quality
monitoring program) to determine localized wind patterns through CM, and river flow
data for the Yangtze and Jialing rivers. Meteorological and hydrological data should
represent the same time period as the air and water quality data.



- 104 -                       ANNEX 3.7
II.   With this information, the Consultant should identify specific localities within
CM that represent the most serious conditions of air or water pollution. These localities
or pollution "hot spots" should be presented on a map of CM along with the monitoring
locations for air and water quality, meteorology and river flows.
Task B: Review industrial enterprise source monitoring data base and hazardous
waste inventory
12.   The Consultant should review results of CEPB's industrial enterprise source
monitoring program of gaseous emissions, liquid effluents, and hazardous waste
inventory (to be completed under separate Terms of Reference).
13.   Based upon this information , the Consultant should prepare preliminary lists of
priority industrial polluters using tons of pollutant per year as the priority criteria. The
list should include all the enterprises whose cumulative release of a pollutant represents
90 percent of all industrial discharges for that pollutant. Separate lists should be prepared
for each of the major air pollutants (dust, sulfur oxide, etc.)and water pollutants ( BOD,
toxic metals, phenol, etc.) for which CM has existing discharge standards. A single list
should be prepared from the hazardous waste inventory [para. 4, item(d)] identifying all
enterprises with serious hazardous waste problems.
14.   Industrial enterprises identified on the preliminary lists of priority industrial
polluters described in para. 13 should be located on the same map utilized in Task A ( see
para. 11), which has already identified pollution "hot spots."
15.   The completed map should depict both pollution "hot spots" and priority
industrial polluters. The next Task will be a refined analysis to estimate contributions the
priority industrial polluters make to the overall pollution levels in the "hot spots."
Task C: Identify the industrial enterprises that contribute 90 percent of industrial
pollution discharges
16.   Results of Tasks A and B provide a tentative link between priority industrial
polluters and pollution "hot spots." In this task, the relationship between levels of
pollution in the " hot spot" and amounts of pollution released by the priority industrial
polluters will be more accurately estimated using mathematical dispersion models. These
models will be used to calculated contributions to ambient pollution levels of air and
water from the individual pollution discharges of the various priority industrial polluters .
17.   The Consultant will utilize pollutant discharge data from the industrial enterprises
source monitoring program conducted by CEPB, and the meteorological and hydrologic
data, in conjunction with the air and river pollutant dispersion models to predict the
incremental contributions of the enterprises to air and water quality.
18.   In cases where several priority industrial polluters are located near the same "hot
spot," the Consultant will use these models to identify the incremental contributions of
each priority industrial polluter to overall levels of air and water quality.



-105 -                       ANNEX 3.7
19.   Dispersion models that are to be used should be limited to those that are utilized
by environmental authorities of developed countries in support of their regulatory
activities, and designed for the unique terrain, meteorology, and hydrologic conditions
found in Chongqing.
20.   The Consultant should use the modeling results to revise ( if necessary) the
preliminary lists of priority industrial polluters prepared under Task B. He should then
plan and perform a series of site visits to support the findings of his analysis regarding the
severity of pollution in the "hot spot" and the likelihood the priority industrial polluters
are responsible. Discussions with local EPB officials or local people living in these areas
should be conducted to provide further evidence.
Task D: Evaluate pollution control cost for priority industrial polluters
21.   A program of environmental audits should be designed that starts with priority
industrial polluters located in the "hot spot." The Environmental Audit Unit of CEPB
should then begin environmental audits in accordance with this schedule. Results of the
environmental audit program would be enterprise-level recommendations on most
appropriate pollution control technological options and the associated costs (enterprises
relocation may be considered as an option).
22.   Based upon the costs for pollution control provided in the environmental audits,
the enterprises should perforn a preliminary analysis to determine if their factory would
remain profitable if it adopted these pollution control measures. If an enterprise cannot
remain viable, i.e., a priority industrial polluter that cannot become clean and remain
profitable , it should be recommended for closure and decommissioning costs estimated.
The enterprises recommended for closure should be compared to the existing list of plants
CEPB maintains for closure/relocation for consistency and agreement. The remaining
enterprises are to be included in the industrial pollution control plan .
Task E: Prepare industrial pollution control plan including a schedule of actions
23.   The Consultant should develop a priority plan of industrial pollution control.
Priority should be given to the enterprises located in the "hot spots" whose annual rate of
pollutant discharge per unit of pollution control investment cost is highest. In short,
priority would be given to those areas most heavily polluted by industry and to the
industries in those areas that would remove the greatest amount of pollution at the lowest
cost.
24.   The environmental audit program may require several years to complete. The
industrial pollution control plan should start with industries in the most polluted "hot
spot" and continue to the next most polluted "hot spot" and so forth. A schedule of
pollution control actions should be prepared to eliminate a significant percentage of all
industrial discharges during the ninth five-year plan.



- 106 -                     ANNEX 3.8
ANNEX 3.8: TERMS OF REFERENCE:
OPERATIONALIZING AN ENVIRONMENTAL AUDIT UNIT
IN THE CHONGQING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
BUREAU
I.    Background: Chongqing Municipality (CM), situated in Sichuan Province, is a
large heavily industrialized and heavily polluted jurisdiction located at the confluence of
the Yangtze and Jialing Rivers.
2.    A World Bank project has been prepared to assist CM  in their program of
industrial reform. As an input to the preparation of an industrial pollution control plan
for CM, a program of environmental audits will be required. The scope of analysis for an
environmental audit (hereafter referred to as an "Audit") is presented in the Attachment.
3.    CEPB has agreed to establish an environmental audit unit (EAU) within its
organization to assist enterprises in preparing Audits. The World Bank project has
included a component of technical assistance to CEPB so that they can develop the
necessary skills to perform Audits and thereby assist participating enterprises in meeting
this requirement.
4.    Objectives. The objectives of this support effort are as follows:
*  Provide professional staff of the EAU practical, hands-on field experience and
training in perforrning Audits of industrial enterprises
* Provide detailed specifications for monitoring equipment and international
training for strengthening monitoring capabilities and analytical skills of the
EAU professional staff
*  Prepare a priority program of industrial enterprise Audits and provide initial
support to the EAU in implementing the Audit program
5.    Work Program.  For this assignment, the Consultant would be required to
provide the services listed below. The scope of services to be provided include the tasks
listed below. Detailed descriptions of the level of effort are presented subsequently.
* Task 1. Design and provide cost estimates (local/foreign) for a mobile van
outfitted for performing industrial environmental audits



-107 -                     ANNEX 3.8
* Task 2. Collaborate with China National Cleaner Production Center (NEPA)
in the design and presentation of a industrial environmental audit training
program for CEPB staff
* Task 3. Prepare a schedule of specific factory-level environmental audits
* Task 4. Implement the environmental audit program
* Task 5. Arrange a study tour for CEPB in industrial environmental auditing
Task 1: Design and provide cost estimates (local/foreign) for a mobile van outfitted
for performing industrial environmental audits
6.    The Consultant will prepare detailed specifications of the types and costs of
sampling, monitoring, and analytical equipment required to make CEPB's EAU
operational. Equipment recommendations should be based upon the scope of Audits as
defined in the Attachment after the Consultant reviews the inventory of industrial
enterprises operating in CM.
7.    A mobile van fitted with the monitoring equipment (of foreign and/or Chinese
manufacture) will offer EAU greatest mobility and flexibility to conduct Audits.
However, the Consultant is free to recommend alternate arrangements if it is believed that
they would be more efficient and cost-effective. The Consultant should design and
provide detailed cost estimates (capital/operating, foreign/local) for a fully equipped and
operational mobile van for EAU.
Task 2: Collaborate with the China National Cleaner Production Center (NEPA) in
the design and presentation of an industrial environmental audit training program
for CEPB staff
8.    The Consultant will review training material prepared by China National Cleaner
Production Center (CPC) for cleaner production industrial audits. With this material as a
base, the Consultant will work with CPC staff to modify their training material for use in
the preparation of a manual for industrial environmental audits. CPC will then prepare a
Chinese-language version of the environmental audit training manual. The Consultant
will then collaborate with CPC staff in designing a training program that combines
lectures with field work. Field work should consist of working with CEPB staff of their
Environmental Audit Unit (EAU), i.e., the trainees, in actually performing enterprise
level industrial environrental audits. Consultant responsibilities for the field work
portion of the training program are discussed under Task 4.
Task 3: Prepare a schedule of specific factory level environmental audits
9.    The Consultant should prepare a schedule of enterprise site visits and Audit
preparation. As discussed above, the Consultant will work with EAU staff in preparing
the Audits of the industrial enterprises.



- 108 -                     ANNEX 3.8
10.   As part of schedule preparation, the Consultant will develop a screening
procedure for use by EAU staff in determining whether a Type I and/or Type II Audit
will be required (see Attachment). All environmental audits (Type I and Type II) include
examination of the following elements: environmental management responsibilities,
estimates of pollutant discharges, plant operational efficiency, worker health and safety,
and environmental impacts of plant operation. A Type I Audit is usually conducted for
industries that are not highly polluting or for which little is known. It relies heavily on
existing data, visual observations, engineering estimates of good practice, etc. A Type II
Audit includes extensive data collection, detailed engineering calculations, and extensive
analysis of process data and company health records. A Type II Audit is usually
conducted for industries known to be highly polluting or if a Type I Audit indicates a
Type II Audit is required.
11.   The Consultant will also develop checklists for both Type I and Type II Audits
that will assure satisfactory collection of all inforrnation consistent with the requirements
presented in the Attachment. These checklists will guide EAU staff in collecting all
necessary data for any industrial enterprise environmental audit.
Task 4: Implement the environmental audit program
12.   Based upon the enterprise-level industrial environmental audit schedule developed
in Task 3, the Consultant should accompany EAU staff and provide field instruction in
implementing the environmental audit program. The Consultant will be required to
actively participate and ensure that every staff member of the EAU has successfully
participated in at least three Type I Audits and one Type II Audit. It is suggested that the
EAU trainees be placed into two groups for the field program. Tlhus the Consultant will
be required to participate in at least eight (six Type I and two Type II) Audits.
Task 5: Arrange a study tour for CEPB in industrial environmental auditing
13.   The Consultant will arrange an overseas study tour of two weeks' duration for
four CEPB staff members and accompany them on the tour. Possible countries selected
for the tour should be those where industrial environmental auditing is either a regulatory
requirement or has become an important environmental management tool.  The
Consultant should make specific arrangements for: meetings/visits with representatives of
government, industry, and consulting firms specializing in environmental auditing,
incountry field trips to industrial enterprises that have or are being audited, and meeting
with environmental management of these industrial enterprises.



- 109 -                     ANNEX 3.8
ATTACHMENT
SCOPE OF WORK: INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE ENVIRONMENTAL AUDIT
Objectives
I.    Objectives of an environmental audit include the following:
(a)   To establish current levels of environmental, health and safety liabilities of
a particular industrial facility;
(b)   Determine  cost characteristics  (capital/operating, local/foreign)  to
eliminate any environmental liabilities to an industrial facility;
(c)   Define appropriate management procedures to assure a sustained program
of environmental compliance;
Levels of Environmental Audits.
2.    Type I Audits assess the environment, health and safety features, and operational
efficiency of a particular facility in a broad manner by utilizing existing data and fast
estimation techniques. A preliminary review of operational efficiency is conducted as
part of the environmental audit. This operational efficiency review evaluates current
conditions and potential for improvements of a facility and related costs for these
improvements. For facilities which are uneconomic, the audit focuses on estimating costs
for decommissioning and cleanup.
3.    Type II Audits are the same scope, but more comprehensive than the Type I
audits. They would nornally include review of detailed heat and material balances,
extensive review and independent verification of pollutant discharge data, extensive
review of company records on hazardous waste generation and management, and worker
health and safety statistics, and data collection and analysis of environmental impacts.
4.    Audits of both Type I and Type II consist of the tasks discussed below. Wherever
applicable, distinctions in task requirements for a Type I and a Type II audit are
presented. Audits are to include both the core processing area as well as any offsite or
infrastructure units dedicated to the production facility.
5.    The decision for a Type I or Type II Audit is made by the Auditor



- 110 -                      ANNEX 3.8
Environmental Audit Activities
6.    Environmental Management Organization. Examine the current environmental
management organization in the plant, assess its adequacy in terms of staff (both numbers
and skills), management effectiveness monitoring capacity, coordination with other parts
of enterprise and any government agencies responsible for environmental management
and worker safety and health.
7.    Regulatory Framework. Determine:  (a) applicable state, provincial and/or
municipal standards/regulations regarding atmospheric emissions, liquid effluents, solid
waste disposal, worker health and safety, which are to be complied with by the facility;
(b) in the absence of such norms, appropriate values from the World Bank, European
Union or internationally recognized organizations (WHO, ILO, etc.) may be used;
(c) determine the status of any necessary environmental, health and safety, permits!
approvals/licenses, etc.
8.    Obtain a recent history of environmental, worker health and safety fines and
penalties charged to the enterprise.
9.    Plant Pollution Characterization.
(a)    Atmospheric Emissions.  Ascertain chief pollutant parameters, and
deterrnine emission levels at all locations including:
* stack emissions
* process (noncombustion process vents or chimneys)
* fuel combustion
*  incinerators
* fugitive
*  stockpiled raw materials, products
*  waste disposal areas
*  fuel storage
* leaks
*  pumps, valves, instrument connections, flanges,
*  piping, process vessels
* storage tanks
* leaks and vents
Assess performance characteristics of any installed air pollution control
equipment (removal efficiencies, operational availability, operating costs,



-111-                         ANNEX 3.8
etc.), compare performance to design values, examine any operational or
design problems.
(b)    Effluent Discharges. Ascertain chief pollutants, and determine discharge
levels and flow characteristics at all locations (including leaks): pipeline
discharges, contact process waters, and noncontact process waters.
Assess performance characteristics of all water pollution control
equipment (removal efficiencies, operational availability, operating costs,
etc.), compare performance with original design, examine any particular
design or operational problems.
(c)    Solid Wastes. Type I: examine disposal practices (visit storage and
disposal sites) and ascertain the physical/chemical /toxicological nature of
the material being discarded. Collect and review any water quality data
existing on nearby ground or surface waters.
Type II: Analyze water quality of ground and/or surface waters in the
immediate disposal area. Review, in detail, disposal site preparation/
construction and how  it is operated.  Determine physical/chemical
characteristics of ground/surface waters, conduct leachate tests.
(d)    Storage-Solids, Liquids, Gases. Examine all storage facilities of raw
materials, products, by-products, for leaks, mechanical integrity, safety,
and appropriate design (standards used, materials of construction,
fabrication, techniques, containment facilities-berms, spacing, volumes,
etc.) and physical condition (evidence of rust, corrosion, etc.)
10.   Operational Efficiency Review
(a)    Prepare material, heat (Type II), and water balances for the facility, and
clearly identify measurements versus estimates.
(b)    Review: (i) quality of fuel and material inputs with relationship to plant
design, and examine impacts on environmental pollution, (ii) the scope for
more efficient use of inputs (e.g., energy, water, raw materials) by
improving operations and maintenance, (iii) the scope for more efficient
use of outputs (e.g., by-product recovery , utilization or sales).
(c)    Evaluate: (i) whether changes in process technology or product mix could
provide more cost-effective ways to prevent pollution at the source
(including solid waste), (ii) whether end-of-pipe/end-of-stack cleanup
would be part of a least-cost approach to pollution abatement at the
facility.



-112 -                      ANNEX 3.8
11.   Occupational Safety and Health (OSH)
(a)   Type I: Examine general attention management pays to OSH issues.
Assess safety practices, condition of OSH equipment (goggles, protective
shoes, fire extinguishers etc.), monitoring systems and medical records.
Review the emergency action plan. Attention should focus on hazardous
nature of raw materials, products, by products and wastes, spill control/
cleanup procedures, emergency response procedures, and warning (alarm)
systems.
(b)   Type II: Assess hazards and risks, evaluate monitoring, and evaluate
monitoring systems in depth (check to ensure they are operating properly).
Examine medical records of employees, interview company medical
personal and examine safety equipment, observe emergency drills/
procedures in detail.
(c)   Review  employee safety training program  and employee medical
examination program.
12.   Impact Assessment
(a)   Determine existing levels of air and water quality (surface and ground
waters), and estimate the relative contribution of the industrial facility to
overall pollution levels.
(b)   Discuss enterprise activities with local environmental authorities to
compare findings with official information concerning discharges to air,
water, and soil, and any associated environmental impacts.
(c)   Estimate any health/epidemiological impacts: Type I-compare ambient
levels with ambient standards of WHO, ILO, etc. Type II-Same as Type
I, but also meet with local public health officials and collect any pertinent
statistics on public health (mortality, morbidity, episodal events, etc.).
13.   Improvement Program
(a)   Identify opportunities. Examine opportunities to improve environmental
performance, including rehabilitation of existing pollution control
equipment, installation of alternative or additional control equipment,
enhancement of inhouse cleanup procedures, alternate process
technologies, alternate raw materials, recycling/reuse of by-products or
waste products.
(b)   Estimation of costs. Provide an estimate of costs for the necessary
environmental improvement program.   Distinguish  between those
recommendations and costs necessary to comply with standards



-113 -                      ANNEX 3.8
(regulations, standards, norms) and recommendations which reflect good
engineering practice. Costs should include both capital and operation/
maintenance costs (local and foreign).
(c)   Recommendations. Provide recommendations to improve environmental
performance by identifying alternative options such as upgrading,
modifying process equipment, upgrading modifying pollution control
equipment, improvements in process monitoring and control, end-of-pipe
cleanup, etc. Discuss costs and possibly cost recovery associated with
each option. Recommendations should be made on a priority basis with
an indication of the likely improvements to the local environment, worker
safety and health, etc. that may be realized Highest priority should be
given to those recommendations that offer the greatest improvements.
14.   Role of Participating  Industrial Enterprises.   Participating  industrial
enterprises will be responsible to provide the following support, and should be so
informed sufficiently far in advance by the environmental audit team, so that all
preliminary information the audit team requires would be available at the time of the
EAU visit.
15.   The industrial enterprise would be required to:
* Make available a counterpart team of at least one technical person
knowledgeable in the areas identified above,
* Prepare a background study on environmental issues concerning the current
and planned operations of the industrial enterprise which will include, but not
be limited to the following information:
* Name of the enterprise
* Ownership Structure of the Enterprise
* Management Structure of the Enterprise
* Particularly environment, health and safety-planning and
operation
* Number of employees, both overall, and numbers assigned to each
major processing area
* Description of major unit processes, and any hazardous materials used
or produced
* Material balance, water balance, heat balance
* Summary of environmental data and source of data



-114 -                       ANNEX 3.8
* Identification of any worker safety/health issues
* Brief description of emergency management program, identify
personnel responsible
* Plant layout drawings (including any offsites)
* Provide full access to the facilities of the industrial enterprise, including
authorization to collect environmental/pollution samples (if necessary)
conduct observations, make drawings, and measurements, take photographs
(subject to mutual agreement) interview plant personnel (both workers, and
management) and otherwise carry out the objectives of the diagnostic and
detailed audits.



-115 -                     ANNEX 3.9
ANNEX 3.9: CHONGQING SPECIAL STEEL COMPANY
(GROUP) LIMITED
1.    Chongqing Special Steel Company (Group) Limited (CSSC) is a state-owned
company established in 1934. The plant is located on the Jialing river in the populated
Shapingba district of Chongqing City, Sichuan Province. Production of finished steel
products averages 220,000 tons annually. The Company employees about 17,000 people.
CSSC is fourth in the gross of industrial output, fifth in employment and sixth in net
fixed assets, and has a good potential for restructuring into an efficient market-oriented
enterprise.
2.    Existing steel-making facilities consist of 10 small electric-arc furnaces (EAFs) of
1950s technology. They are in poor condition, obsolete, inefficient and have no pollution
control equipment. Of all the sources of industrial air pollution in the Shuangbei region
of Chongqing City, CSSC is the largest offender. The plant is also a major polluter of the
Jialing River through the discharge of untreated waste water, raw sewage, and the
disposal of slag. Because of their age and condition and the lack of space, these furnaces
cannot be retrofitted to bring them into compliance with environmental standards.
3 .    CSSC's planned program is to build a new steel-making plant capable of meeting
all environmental standards. The plant will be located on a greenfield site 5 km from the
existing operation. This facility will produce 450,000 tons of continuous cast steel
blooms, which will be shipped to the existing plant and rolled into 376,000 tons of
finished products. A 1.5 km railway link may be built by the Chongqing Railway
Bureau, but this investment of about $8 million has not yet been approved by the
Ministry of Transport. Until this railway link is built, CSSC intends to transport by truck
its entire annual blooms production. Studies submitted by CSSC to the Bank (available
in the project files) show that road transportation is only slightly more expensive than the
rail alternative and this has a marginal impact on the total operating costs of the company.
4.    The major production equipment will be a 100-ton EAF, a ladle metallurgy with a
vacuum degasser, and a continuous casting machine. Environmnental control facilities
will include: (a) large baghouse for control of the EAF, ladle furnace and furnace hood
systems; (b) cyclone separators for various conveyors, storage bins and boilers; (c) closed
water recycle systems for the EAF, ladle furnace, vacuum degasser and casting facilities;
(d) solid separation, oil skimming and chemical treatment for recycle water; (e) sanitary
treatment facilities; (f) noise abatement facilities; and (g) extensive plantings and
greenery.
5.    There is not sufficient space at the present site to accommodate all facilities
required for the new steel-making operation including the environmental control



-116 -                       ANNEX 3.9
equipment.  Areas adjacent to the existing site are heavily populated.  Acquiring
additional land at this location would be expensive and disruptive. The proposed plant
site is known as the Jinkou Farm. This site is close to the existing rolling and finishing
mills so that transportation costs will be minimized. CSSC's rolling mills are old but
have been reasonably maintained. At some point, however, CSSC will have to replace
them with new, high-speed computer controlled mills. The planned staffing for the new
steel plant is 1,600 employees. They will all come from the existing plant that currently
has a work force of 2,290. Those workers not being transferred to the new facilities will
continue to be employed by CSSC in service trades.
6.    When the existing steel-making shop is shut down in early 1999, air quality in the
area near the plant will be significantly improved by decreased concentrations of NOR,
S02 and TSP. Water consumption at the new plant will be 35 percent lower than the old
plant because of recirculation. Wastewater treatment will control suspended solids, oil
and grease and chemical oxygen demand. A sanitary system will control suspended
solids and biological oxygen demand. Water returned to the Jialing River will be of
significantly better quality than the intake water.
7.    Under present practices, slag is piled on the west bank of the Jialing river and
much of it ends up in the river, causing pollution. The new plant will have a slag
processing facility. Slag will be processed to reclaim the metallics and convert the
remainder to useful products. Moreover, slag stored at the old site will be processed thus
reducing this pollution problem. The new facilities will have no significant negative
effect on air quality at the new location.
The Market
8.    The approximate apparent consumption of specialty steel in China is estimated at
6.4 million tons for 1994. Government experts expect the demand for specialty steels to
reach 10 million tons by the year 2000. This is an increase of 3.6 million tons or 56
percent over current levels. China is not self-sufficient in special steels. Estimates also
indicate China will not become self-sufficient in this steel sector in the foreseeable future.
9.    With the age and condition of CSSC's furnaces, it is difficult to meet the quality
specifications for special steels. While chemical specifications can usually be met the
problems of steel cleanliness and segregation cannot. As a result, the product mix has
been shifting to a lower-quality steel products such as standard carbon grades. The
principal markets served by CSSC are the transportation including automotive, machinery
and tool industries. Approximately 50 percent of CSSC's products are shipped to
customers in the local region.  The remaining production is delivered to key
manufacturers in other parts of China.
10.   CSSC is designated a "Key" company in the production of special steels in China.
CSSC is China's first producer of free-cutting steel and valve steel, as well as second of
spring steel, essential inputs to the automotive industry. CSSC is expected to play a
major role in the industrialization of China by keeping pace with the growth of their



-117 -                     ANNEX 3.9
transportation equipment, the machinery and tool industry customers. The company
accounts for about 4 percent of China's special steel production and about 19 percent of
the special steel produced in Sichuan Province. With the planned steel shop, the
company will be able to maintain this marketplace share in the beginning of the next
century.
11.   CSSC's planned selling prices average $540 per ton. This compares with average
product costs of $412 per ton. Despite its inefficient steel-making operations, CSSC is
cost-competitive on an international basis. This reflects the fact that wages in China are
extremely low. As seen in Table 1, selling prices are comfortably below foreign import
prices for similar products delivered to Chongqing.
Table 1: CHANGES IN CSSC's FINISHED PRODUCTS MIX
1994                         2000
Sales      Sales     Import        Sales      Sales
volume      price      parity      volume      price
(tons)     ($/t)      ($/t)       (tons)      ($/t)
Carbon Steel        109,341        418       508        83,644        418
Alloy                42,276        490       706       125,467        490
Spring Steel         32,471        500      682         75,280        500
Free-cutting Steel   21,334        521       660        41,822        521
Valve Steel           3,382       1,430        n.a.     50,187       1,430
High-speed Steel      3,360      2,301         n.a.          0       2,301
Stainless Steel      14,550       1,433       n.a.           0       1,433
Others                  713        536         n.a.          0        536
Total/Average price  227,427       561                 376,400        605
Project Cost And Financing Plan
12.   The capital cost estimate is summarized in Table 2.



-118 -                    ANNEX 3.9
Table 2: CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE
($'000)
Description                          Import       Local        Total
Land Preparation and Civil Works         -       20,622.04    20,622.04
Equipment (including freight and duties)   41,670.00  19,869.73  61,539.73
Engineering                          2,518.00     5,005.00     7,523.00
Installation and Utilities               -       16,160.83    16,160.83
Subtotal                         44,188.00    61,657.60    105,845.60
Contingencies: Physical             4,418.80     6,165.76    10,584.56
Financial                662.82      7,923.80     8,586.62
Subtotal                         49,269.62    75,747.16    125,016.78
Interest during Construction         6,433.75     7,563.35    13,997.10
Working Capital Increase                 -       22,800.02    22,800.02
TOTAL REQUIRED FINANCING    55,703.37    106,110.53    161,813.90
13.   A summary of the proposed financing plan with capital expenditures of $125.02
million plus interest during construction and working capital requirements is as follows:
Table 3: FINANCIAL PLAN
($'000)
World Bank Loan                          62,000.0
Bank Loan                                   35,309.7
Domestic Bank Loan (Working Capital):       15,960.0
Total Financed Amount                                       113I269.7
Equity Contribution:
Capital Increase                     30,120.5
Cash Generation                      18,423.7
Total Equity Contribution                                    48,544.2
Total Financing Plakn                                       161,813.9



-119 -                       ANNEX 3.9
Disbursement of the Loans and Equity
14.   Table 4 summarizes the disbursement forecasts by sources of funds.
Table 4: DISBURSEMENT PLAN
($'000)
Sources of Funds           1995    1996      1997     1998      1999     Total
Cash Generation           2,228.9  3,419.3  4,200.0  4,200.0  4,375.5  18,423.7
Capital Increase             -    1,122.6  7,927.2  18,606.2  2,464.5  30,120.5
Total Equity           2,228.9  4,541.9  12,127.2  22,806.2  6,840.0  48,544.2
World Bank Loan              -             14,000.0  30,000.0  18,000.0  62,000.0
Domestic Bank Loan           -    7,061.9  17,654.9  10,592.9  15,960.0  51,269.7
Total Loans                -    7,061.9  31,654.9  40,592.9  33,960.0  113,269.7
TOTAL DISBURSEMENT  2,228.9  11,603.8  43,782.1  63,399.1  40,800.0  161,813.9
Financial and Economic Rates of Return
15.   Financial and economic evaluations (Figure 1) were undertaken on an incremental
basis comparing a projected situation without the project where it was assumed that the
existing plant continues to operate without the new investment with a projected case
which assumes that the new investment is installed. The profits from the projected case
without project are subtracted from the profits in the situation where the project is
developed. The incremental increase in profits is applicable to the investment cost of the
new facilities. The economic analysis started with the financial statements presented in
the Financial Evaluation, adjusting the inputs and outputs to reflect the economic values
of the national resources employed.
16.   Under this approach CSSC's project generates a positive financial rate of return of
17 percent and a net present value of $51 million. The project generates an Economic
Internal Rate of Return (ERR) of 24 percent. The risks of the project were evaluated by
applying sensitivity analysis to the ERR. A combined 10 percent drop in average selling
prices, a 10 percent increase in operating costs, and a 20 percent increase in capital costs
reduce the ERR to 15 percent, which represents a comfortable margin for changes in the
economic environment of the project. The project is more sensitive to declines in steel
prices. However, selling prices would have to decline by 20 percent in financial terms
and by 30 percent in economic terms to make the Net Present Value turn negative (at a
discount rate of 11 percent, the base standards FRR used in China).



-120 -                     ANNEX 3.9
Table 5: SENSITIVITY TEST ON INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN
Financial          Economic
Rate of Return     Rate of Return
1. Base case                                17%               24%
2. Sale Revenue down 10%                    15%                20%
3. Operating Costs up 10%                   16%                22%
4. Capital Costs up 20%                     15%                21%
5. "Worst case"(2+3+4)                      11%                15%
Financial Situation of CSSC
17.   CSSC's balance sheet has been affected by the austerity program established by
the Central Government in June 1993. Credit has been severely tightened resulting in
what is translated as a "triangular debt crisis." Customers cannot pay invoices for steel
shipped and steel suppliers have experienced significant increases in accounts receivable.
The offsetting liability is an increase in short-term debt to finance working capital and
accounts payable. Accordingly, as of September 1995, CSSC faced a major liquidity
problem and the company's debt was such that it made it difficult to borrow on pure
commercial basis. To cover the exponential rise in working capital, CSSC was forced to
increase its short-term debt to the equivalent of almost one year of sales.
18.   To ensure that (a) the company can be financially solvent until the new plant is
built, (b) the additional financing required to complete the relocation subproject can be
obtained, and (c) CSSC can meet its debt equity and debt service coverage requirements
under the project, sufficient CSSC equity contributions and local bank financing must be
made available. During negotiations, CSSC informed the Bank that by the end of 1995,
the company had proceeded with a financial restructuring of its Balance Sheet, by means
of a conversion into equity of Y 250 million of debt and accrued liabilities. Details of the
operations are as follows: conversion into equity of (i) Y 223.5 million of accrued
liabilities (unpaid taxes); and (ii) Y 32.1 million of long-term State and Municipal loans
(for technical renovation). The financial restructuring-together with the fact that actual
1995 results were better than the forecasts presented to the Bank during appraisal-has
substantially improved the financial situation of the company. Financial projections
prepared by the Bank now indicate that CSSC should be in a position to comply with the
financial covenants of the project. During negotiations, agreement was also reached with
CM on the modalities of a capital injection of Y 250 million in order to allow CSSC to
meet its equity contribution to the project.
19.  In addition, during negotiations, agreement was reached that CSSC will:
(a) maintain a long-term debt/equity ratio of 70:30 or better; (b) maintain a debt service



-121-                        ANNEX 3.9
coverage ratio of at least 1.2. and (c) furnish to the Bank for review, by October 31 of
each year from 1996 to the third year after the startup of operations of the new facility, its
rolling five-year financial plans, including production, marketing and investment plans, in
the formn of projected financial statements. Such plans will be supported by: (i) a detailed
analysis of production cost trends; (ii) analysis of operational and financial budget
variances for the current fiscal year; and (iii) financing arrangements for the investments
proposed over the five-year period. In addition, CSSC will submit to the Bank its annual
accounts audited by independent accountants.
20.   Based on the projected product mix and operating margins under the base-case
scenario, the profitability of CSSC should improve substantially during the next 10 years.
Net income is expected to increase from a negative $1.5 million in 1995 to about $29
million when the project reaches full production by 2001. Expressed as a percentage of
sales, it should improve from I to 4 percent over the sarne period. However, the
projected high total-debt-to-equity ratios during the construction period and the low debt
service coverage projected during the first 10 years of operations indicate the need for
further capital injections by CM before the full commissioning of the new plant.



- 122 -                          ANNEX 3.9
Figure 1: CSSC-FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN CALCULATIONS
($ million)
1/ FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
Projection                  2002
1996   1997   1998   1999  2000  2001 to 2013
Capital Costs
Total Project Cost                      -27.8  -59.8  -51.4    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
Increase in Incremental Working Capital    0.0    0.0    0.0   -1.3  -12.4   -8.8   0.0
Operating Costs & Revenues
Incremental Revenue                       0.0    0.0    0.0    6.6   52.1   83.8  83.8
Incremental Operating Cost                0.0    0.0    0.0   16.5   30.1   38.6  38.6
Incremental Gross Operating Income        0.0    0.0    0.0   -9.9   21.9   45.2  45.2
INCREMENTAL NET BENEFIT                 -27.8  -59.8  -51.4  -11.2    9.5   36.4  45.2
FTNANCIAL RATE OF RETURN:                17.4
NET PRESENT VALUE:                       50.5
(discount rate:)                         11%
2/ ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Projection
_  1996   1997   1998   1999  2000  2001   2002
Capital Costs
Total Project Cost                      -27.2  -55.8  -47.4    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
Increase in Incremental Working Capital    0.0    0.0    0.0   -1.3  -12.4   -8.8   0.0
Operating Costs & Revenues
Incremental Revenue                       0.0    0.0    0.0   19.4   77.8  117.9  117.9
4 ..........    .....................................................................................    .... ..................................................................................................... .   ....................................................................
Incremental Operating Cost               -0.0    0.0    0.0   28.9   45.0   55.1  55.2
Incremental Gross Operating Income        0.0    0.0    0.0   -9.5   32.8   62.8  62.7
INCREMENTAL NET BENEFIT                 -27.2  -55.8  -47.4  -10.8   20.4   54.0  62.7
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN:                 24.2
NET PRESENT VALUE:                      110.6
(discount rate:)                         11%



-123 -                        ANNEX 3.10
ANNEX 3.10: RESETTLEMENT ASSOCIATED WITH
THE CSSC RELOCATION
Schedule 1   Results of the Socioeconomic Household Survey for CSSC Jinkou Farm
Schedule 2   The PMO Resettlement Unit
Schedule 3   Terms of Reference for External Monitor of Resettlement
Schedule 4   Resettlement Policy Framework and Procedures Process



-124 -                     ANNEX 3.10
Schedule 1-Results bf the Socioeconomic Household Survey for
CSSC Jinkou Farm
Table 1: GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE PROJECT-AFFECTED PEOPLE
Number            Percent
Total affected households (to be relocated)  1,014
Non-CSSC households                       0
Affected people                              3,018
Male                                   1,559              51.66
Female                                 1,459             48.34
Education
No education                            161                5.35
Primary school                          431               14.28
Middle school                           915              30.32
High school                             704              23.33
Higher education                        229               7.59
Children (age <16 years)                578               19.15
Health status
Good                                   2,974             98.542
Average                                  34                1.127
Poor                                      8               0.265
Disabled                                  2               0.066
Registration
Nonagricultural                        2,890             95.76
Agricultural                            128               4.24



-125 -                      ANNEX 3.10
Table 2: AGE AND GENDER
Age group           Male           Female           Total          Percent
5 and under           72              66             138             4.57
6-15 years           225             215             440            14.58
16-25 years          168             158             326             10.80
26-35 years          329             295             624             20.68
36-45 years          309             276             585             19.38
46-55 years           201            205             406             13.45
56-59 years            80             72             152              5.04
60-69 years           102             109            211              6.99
70 and over            73             63             136              4.51
Total            1,559           1,459           3,018           100.00
Percent         51.66          48.34            100.00



-126 -                     ANNEX 3.10
Table 3: EMPLOYMENT CHARACTERISTICS
Male   Female    Total   Percent
Employer (includes retired)
Jinkou State Farm/CSSC
Active                       497      207      704      23.33
Retired                      184      215      399      13.22
Other SOE
Active                       376      435      811      26.87
Retired                       32       65       97       3.21
Collective                          13        17       30       0.99
Self-employed                       19       10        29       0.96
Farmers                             22       64        86       2.85
Unemployed
Working age                   80       97       177      5.86
Over 60 years                  7       44       51       1.69
Subtotal                                      2,384     78.99
Students (16 and over)              31       25        56       1.85
Children (0-15 years)              297      281       578      19.15
Total                                         3,018    100.00
Occupation Type
Agriculture                         22       64        86       5.18
Manufacturing/process              693      551     1,244     74.94
Service                             47       39        86      5.18
Institute (school)                  13       17        30       1.81
Management                         149       65       214      12.89
Total                       924       736    1,660    100.00
Work Location for non-CSSC Workers
Near Jinkou State Farm                                470      54.02
Near CSSC (Shuangbei)                                  47       5.40
Chongqing                                             347     39.89
Elsewhere                                               6      0.69
Total                                          870    100.00



-127 -                     ANNEX 3.10
Table 4: ANNUAL HOUSEHOLD INCOME AND EXPENDITURE
CSSC       Other      Total
Total income (excluding bonus) (Y million)      5.480      4.145      9.625
Percent                                  56.9%     43.10%    100.00%
Income earners                                  1,103      1,053      2,156
Average income per worker (includes retired)    4,969      3,936      4,464
Average household income                            -          -      9,493
Average income per capita                           -          -      3,189
Total expenditures (Y million)                      -          -      7.240
Average per household                         -          -      7,141
Food                                   -          -       4,635
Clothing                               -          -       1,143
Average per capita                            -          -      2,399
Average saving per household                        -          -      2,352
Percent of income                             -          -     24.8%
Note: Wage income for state/collective employees; net income for farmers and self-
employed.
Table 5: ANNUAL HOUSEHOLD SAVINGS RATE
Range             Number of households            Percent
0-10%                      12                         1.18
10-20%                    225                        22.18
20-30%                    599                        59.07
30-40%                    117                        11.53
40-50%                     40                         3.94
>50%                      21                         2.07
Total                   1,014                      100.00



-128 -                      ANNEX 3.10
Table 6: MAIN SOURCE OF INCOME BY AGE STRUCTURE
Age structure   CSSC    Other SOE   Other  No income  No response   Total
Below 16 years      0         0          0      575           0          575
16-49 years       590       728        127      160          59         1,664
50-60 years       302       131         14       21           0          468
Over60years       211        49          4       47           0          311
Total     1,103      908        145       803          59        3,018
Table 7: AGE OF HOUSING STOCK
Years                              Number                     Percent
1-5                                  133                       13.12
6-10                                 146                       14.40
11-20                                 194                       19.13
21-30                                 353                       34.81
Over 30                               188                       18.54
Total                         1,014                     100.00
Average floor space per household                            37.8 m2
Table 8: YEARS AT PRESENT LOCATION
Years                              Number                     Percent
1-5                                  298                      29.39
6-10                                 475                       46.84
11-20                                 169                       16.67
Over 20                                72                        7.10
Total                         1,014                     100.00



-129 -                     ANNEX 3.10
Table 9: PERSONAL ASSETS OF HOUSEHOLD
Item                                  Number          Percent of households
Automobile                                3                   0.3
Motorcycle                               14                   1.4
Bicycle                                  45                   4.4
Color TV                                730                  72.0
Refrigerator                            713                  70.0
Washing machine                         722                  71.0
Air conditioner                          44                   4.3
Record/CD player                         21                   2.1
Fan                                     976                  96.0
Video player                             50                   4.9
Black & white TV                        276                  27.0
No response                              35                   3.5
Total                            1,014



-130-                                ANNEX3.10
Table 10: SUMMARY OF IMPACTS AND ENTITLEMENT FOR PEOPLE
ON THE JINKOu FARM
Law or              Proposed
Type of Impact  Quantity    Units       Legal Entitlement     Regulation            Entitlement
Relocation of    1,004    - households State (CSSC) will   Municipal Law     Same as legal entitlement.
State Houses    2,980    - people     provide comparable    for Dismantling   New housing conditions will
(rented by                            housing at no cost to    Buildings     be much improved. Subsi-
CSSC staff)                           occupants, including                   dized rental fees will
moving costs.                         increase slightly.
Relocation of      10    - households CSSC compensates     State Law of      Owners will receive state
Private Houses     38    - people     based on market val-   Land Manage-    housing and compensation
(owned by                             ues. Staff are entitled   ment; State Labor for house.
CSSC staff)                           to state housing.    Law
Transfer of Jobs    704    - laborers    Reassignment and  State Owned In-   Since merger, CSSC is
and Incomes                          retraining of workers   dustrial Enterprise reassigning workers. Higher
()inkou State                         by employer.         Operating Mecha- salaries and allowance are
Farm workers)                                              nism Adjustment  being paid.
Family Mem-    1,133    - laborers    No entitlement       Not applicable.    Compensation for any lost
bers' Jobs and                       required.                              income during move.
Incomes (not
affected)
Loss of Agri-     500    - Y'000      Farm production and    State Farm      Agricultural production has
cultural Produc-         (gross reve-  income belongs to   Regulations       been sold off (cattle) or
tion                     nue)         State Farm.                            reduced (oranges).
Loss of Tempo-      7    - hectares    State workers are not   State Owned   This was a temporary policy
rary Vegetable                        entitled to farmland on  Enterprises   to benefit Jinkou Farm
Production                            company propcrty.                      workers during the transi-
tion.
Land Requisi-      1.3   - km ROW    CM Railway Dept. to   State Law of      Based on Laws. Final
tion for Railway   2.0   - hectares    compensate property    Land Manage-    alignment is to be surveyed
between CSSC       0     - houses     owners based on land   ment; Municipal  in 1996.
and Jinkou                            values.              Regulations
Farm           _    _                I                    I_ I



-131-                       ANNEX 3.10
Schedule 2-The PMO Resettlement Unit
General
1.    The PMO is responsible for coordinating and supervising implementation of the
Chongqing Industrial Reform and Pollution Control Project. In accordance with World
Bank requirements for project-related resettlement, the PMO will also be responsible for
coordinating and supervising resettlement implementation. The PMO has established a
Resettlement Unit with staff and responsibilities detailed below. The organizational
structure is shown in Figure 1.
Figure 1: ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE FOR RESETTLEMENT
Staffing
2.    The Resettlement Unit will have two staff appointed:
| Mr. Wen Rujun, as Head (in addition to other duties)
*  Ms. He Lili, as Vice Head (also part-time).
Responsibilities
3.    Coordination: to coordinate project-related resettlement aspects and liaise with:
(a) all project enterprises regarding potential and identified resettlement issues;
(b) relevant local agencies (e.g., CM, Labor Bureau, Land Management-Bureau, Housing
Bureau, etc.); and (c) the World Bank.



-132 -                      ANNEX 3.10
4.    Policy Framework:  to implement the resettlement Policy Framework and
procedures for all enterprises under the Line-of-Credit component.
5.    Supervision: (a) to regularly check that implementation is proceeding according
to plans; (b) to ensure that key targets are met on time; and (c) to follow up and ensure
compliance with any subsequent remedial actions required by the World Bank or PMO.
6.    Monitoring & Evaluation: (a) to periodically monitor and evaluate the progress
of resettlement implementation based upon the Resettlement Action Plan(s); (b) to update
the resettlement implementation schedule(s); and (c) to update financial progress and
schedule(s).
7.    Reporting:  (a) to receive quarterly progress reports from CSSC and other
relevant enterprises; (b) to consolidate the reports into one document that incorporates the
PMO's comments and recommendations; and (c) to deliver quarterly reports to the World
Bank.
8.    Advisory Services: (a) to advise project enterprises of World Bank resettlement
policies and requirements; (b) to assist enterprises in the preparation of the Resettlement
Action Plan; and (c) to provide guidance concerning to proper implementation of these
plans.
Performance Indicators
9.    The following are the key performance indicators that the PMO Resettlement Unit
will use the monitor and evaluation the resettlement progress:
  physical progress of construction for the residential complex
-  availability of resettlement funds and disbursements
-  number of workers transferred
*  number of families relocated to new residences
*  income levels (salaries and bonuses) of affected workers
*  housing conditions (floor space, quality, amenities, safety)
*  social services (schooling, health care, recreation, etc.)
*  working conditions (physical stress, air & noise quality, safety, mental stress)
*  human resource development (training, apprenticeship, etc.)
*  productivity of workers (based on ratings of station supervisor)
*  public opinion (survey the levels of satisfaction for workers and family
members)
*  number of grievances and how resolved.
Format of Quarterly Progress Reports
10.   The following is an outline for the PMO Resettlement Unit to follow for quarterly
progress reports to be submitted to the World Bank. The first progress report should be
received by the World Bank four weeks prior to the first supervision mission.



-133-                        ANNEX3.10
* Introduction-key issues since last report
* Description of Progress of Project Implementation-engineering/construction
* Details of Resettlement Progress-update implementation schedule and
describe:
* status of key targets (refer to Section 9 of the CSSC RAP)
* physical progress and number of people relocated
* financial progress and personal compensation
* Results of Public Opinion and Socioeconomic Surveys
* summarize and assess findings of the external monitor
* describe findings made directly by PMO Resettlement Unit
* include comments from CSSC Resettlement Unit
D Discuss Key Issues and Remedial Actions
* describe issues/problems and review previous remedial actions
* give results of follow-up (problem resolved or still exists)
D present new or revised remedial actions
* Conclusions and Recommendations-identify critical tasks for subsequent
quarter.



-134 -                     ANNEX 3.10
Schedule 3-Terms of Reference for External Monitor of Resettlement
Background
1.    The Chongqing Industrial Reform and Environmental Control Project includes
restructuring and pollution control investments for industrial enterprises. Some new or
rehabilitated production facilities involve land requisition and/or relocation of housing.
Since the World Bank is providing financing for the Project, the resettlement impacts
must be handled according to World Bank procedures, as stipulated in Operational
Directive 4.30 (1990).
2.    At present, only the CSSC steel plant relocation component of the project
involves resettlement. In accordance with World Bank requirements, a Resettlement
Action Plan has been prepared that describes the impacts and plans for mitigation or
compensation of the affected population. However, should enterprises financed under the
Line-of-Credit component of the Project involve resettlement, a separate Resettlement
Action Plan will be prepared for each relevant enterprise.
3.    The  World  Bank  requires monitoring  and  evaluation  of resettlement
implementation. This will include internal monitoring by the implementing agency (e.g.,
CSSC) and by the coordinating agency-the Project Management Office (PMO). The
World Bank also requires external monitoring by an independent party.
Objectives
4.    The objective of the external monitoring is to provide an independent assessment
of resettlement implementation, to ensure it meets World Bank standards. The key
criteria for successful resettlement include improvements in living standards and income
levels. The Resettlement Action Plan is designed to minimize adverse impacts and
provide the means for improved living standards and incomes. The external monitor will
be required to develop and implement a monitoring system at the household level to
document the socioeconomic effects related to Project implementation. The evaluation
will be based on the eleven resettlement criteria stated in Section 4.5 of the CSSC
Resettlement Action Plan.
Qualifications of the External Monitor
5.    The external monitor should possess the following characteristics:
* a nongovernment agency that is independent from the Project components,
* good skills in social science, particularly socioeconomic impact assessment,
and
* previous experience in providing similar services to clients.



-135 -                      ANNEX 3.10
Scope of Services and Specific Tasks to be Performed
6.    The present scope of services only pertains to resettlement related to the CSSC
component of the Project. If additional enterprises have resettlement, the scope of
services and contract can be amended to incorporate these additional monitoring
activities.
(a)   Review baseline conditions for affected households, utilizing existing
data from the Resettlement Action Plan, the public opinion survey and the
socioeconomic household survey conducted by CSSC.
(b)   Develop a monitoring system that can provide accurate and reliable
results for a representative sample of the affected population.  The
monitoring methodology should include new household surveys, but the
information from existing surveys should be fully utilized.
(c)   Design a survey form that can monitor the following criteria:
- mitigation measures or compensation provided,
D employment (job reassignment) situation,
D annual income levels of all directly affected workers,
* annual income levels of other family members in households to be
relocated,
* annual household expenditures and savings,
D housing conditions of families to be relocated,
D private expenditures on new housing (decorations and furnishings)
* levels of social services for households to be relocated, and
3 public opinions and grievances related to resettlement.
The proposed survey form should be discussed with the PMO and tested
on 20 households. After revisions, the form should be sent to the World
Bank for no objection before the survey is conducted
(d)   Conduct an annual household survey of income levels and living
standards.
(e)   Collect periodic information on public opinions, grievances, and
progress on selected mitigative measures (i.e., key activities or remedial
measures).



-136 -                      ANNEX 3.10
(f)   Prepare reports to be submitted to the PMO, including:
* an interim report at mid-year
* a comprehensive report at year-end, which will be included in the
PMO's annual report on the environmental impact of the Project
* the content of the comprehensive report is shown in Attachment A.
Schedule and Level of Effort
7.    The services should commence by March 1, 1996 and will continue for a period
of five years. The anticipated level of effort for these services will depend upon the
methodology and staffing used. However, the PMO has established an upward contract
limit on fees and disbursement of Y 125,000 for these services.
Other Conditions
8.    The external monitor will report to the Head of the PMO's Resettlement Unit.
9.    The external monitor will have access to resettlement monitoring reports prepared
each quarter by the PMOYs Resettlement Unit.
10.   A schedule of payments will be negotiated, which are tied to the delivery and
acceptance of monitoring reports.
11.   The contract may be amended to expand the scope of services to other enterprises
that may require a Resettlement Action Plan.



-137 -                      ANNEX 3.10
Attachment A-Contents of the Comprehensive External Monitoring Report
1.    The following is the suggested format for the comprehensive report.
Introduction               - reference earlier reports and work
Methodology                - general methodology applied
- describe work that lead up to this report
Resettlement Progress      - overview (reference PMO reports)
- independent comments
Housing Conditions         - compare old and new
- monetary compensation (10 private houses)
- level of satisfaction
- implementation issues
Employment and Net Incomes  - employment status
- household incomes
- household expenditures
- savings levels
- private expenditures on new housing
- employment issues
Social Services            - schools, health clinics, infrastructure, etc.
- compare old and new
Public Opinion             - results of surveys
- compare with previous results
Grievances                 - document occurrences
- mechanisms to handle and outcomes
Other Issues               - to be determined (e.g., health, vulnerable groups, etc.)
Recommendations            - remedial actions to be taken
- status of previous actions
Conclusions                - overall evaluation
2.    The comprehensive report should also contain detailed tables of monitoring/
survey statistics to justify to the statements in the report.



-138-                        ANNEX3.10
Schedule 4-Resettlement Policy Framework and Procedures Process
I.    The Chongqing Industrial Reform and Pollution Control Project may include
resettlement impacts for enterprises under the Line-of-Credit component. To date, four
enterprises have been selected for financing but none of these proposals require
resettlement. Other enterprises will be identified in 1996 that could have resettlement
impacts. In order to comply with World Bank OD 4.30, the following Policy Framework
and procedures process will be used for this project.
General Policy
2.    The candidate enterprises will try to avoid the need for resettlement.
3.    If resettlement is required, a separate Resettlement Action Plan will be prepared
for each enterprise .
Defining Resettlement
4.    Resettlement impacts that would invoke the need for a Resettlement Action Plan
include:
(a)   requisition of land that affects people's livelihoods, and/or
(b)   involuntary relocation of housing.
5.    Although the investment scheme may involve the reassignment of an enterprise's
workers, this impact, in itself, does not invoke the need for a Resettlement Action Plan.
Procedures Process
6.    Review all subprojects, being prepared by the Restructuring Advisory Facility or
local consultants, for possible resettlement impacts.
7.    If resettlement impacts are suspected, prepare a brief report on the proposed
project which describes land requisition requirements, relocation of housing, the number
and characteristics of project affected people, and the anticipated impacts. A labor
reassignment plan should also be provided by the enterprise.
8.    Submit the brief report to the World Bank for a decision on the following options:
* no need for a Resettlement Action Plan
* proceed with a Resettlement Action Plan
* modify the proposal to avoid resettlement impacts
* abandon the proposal, for resettlement or other reasons.
9.    If option (b) is selected, the proponent should conduct a socioeconomic-economic
survey for the project-affected households. The purpose is to gain a better understanding



-139-                       ANNEX3.10
of the resettlement impacts, identify mitigation options, and document baseline
conditions.
10.   Prepare a comprehensive Resettlement Action Plan that covers the following
aspects:
*  the proposed scheme
*  baseline conditions
*  resettlement impacts
*  relevant laws and regulations
*  resettlement principles and criteria
*  compensation entitlement
*  proposed plans to mitigate impacts
*  cost of resettlement plans and financing
*  implementation schedule (physical and financial)
*  capacity for implementing the proposed actions
*  monitoring and evaluation.
Note: the Resettlement Action Plan for CSSC can be used as a model but it
should deal with the above aspects in a level of detail that corresponds to the types
and degree of impacts.
11.   Submit the Resettlement Action Plan to the World Bank for approval or
modifications.
12.   Finalize the Resettlement Action Plan and get approval from the Chongqing
Municipality.
13.   Include the new Resettlement Action Plan within the supervision activities of the
PMO's Resettlement Unit, and add to the scope of the external monitor.



-140-                       ANNEX3.11
ANNEX 3.11: ZHONGXING INDUSTRY AND COMMERCE
COMPANY, SUBSIDIARY OF CHONGQING IRON AND
STEEL COMPANY (GROUP) LIMITED
1.    Zhongxing Industry and Commerce Company (ZICC) was established in 1939 as
the Number 3 Steel Making Company of the Chongqing Iron and Steel Company (Group)
Limited (CISCG). The plant is located in the Jiang Bei District of Chongqing, a densely
populated area on the north shore of the Jialing River. ZICC operated two open-hearth
furnaces, a 10-ton electric-arc furnace (EAF), some small rolling mills and associated
equipment.  Production volume has been almost constant over the last five years
averaging 160,000 tons per year. The product mix, however, has changed to more lower-
quality items.
2.    CISCG operates a completely integrated plant located in the Dadukou District of
Chongqing. It employs about 50,000 people. Of that, ZICC accounts for 5,700 or 11
percent. Much of the labor is employed in activities not directly concerned with steel
making (housing, food service, education, health care, property maintenance, etc.), and
the company still has 19,000 retired persons in its payroll. CISCG produced almost
900,000 tons of finished products in 1994 (plates, wire rods, silicon sheet, and structural
shapes).
3.    The emissions from ZICC's furnaces and lime kiln are exhausted into the air
without treatment and constitute the largest source of air pollution in the Jiangbei district,
the business center of Chongqing City. Wastewater returned to the Jialing River is a
serious cause of water pollution. The shutdown of this steel-making operation is the top
priority of CISCG's environmental improvement program.
4.    The proposed course of action is to install a new 60-ton EAF and continuous billet
caster within CISCG's steel complex, so that it can benefit from the existing
infrastructure and auxiliary equipment.  This will reduce substantially the capital
requirements of the project. ZICC's facilities will be entirely shut down by 1999 and the
new plant will produce 300,000 tons of continuous cast billets. New facilities will
include: (a) one 60-ton Electric Arc Furnace; (b) one continuous Billet Caster;
(c) Materials Handling Facilities; (d) Ladle Metallurgy Furnace; (e) Vacuum Degasser;
and (f) Wire Feeding Machine. Only 8 hectares of land will be required for the new steel
shop. Currently occupying the land is a scrap storage yard, a billet storage facility and a
machine shop. Part of the land is hilly and unoccupied. The present ZICC steel-making
facilities are manned by 632 workers, while the new ones will employ 600. A total of
420 of the present workers will be transferred to the new plant. Of the remaining 212
people, 86 will retire based on the general practice of the company, 91 will be placed in
other jobs within CISCG, and 35 will be employed in other industries.



-141-                       ANNEX 3.11
5.    The new operation will be equipped with the latest pollution controls, meeting all
Chinese environmental standards. Environmental controls to be installed include: (a)
large baghouse for control of the EAF, ladle furnace and furnace hood systems;
(b) cyclone separators for various conveyors, storage bins and boilers; (c) closed water
recycle systems for the EAF, ladle furnace, vacuum degasser and casting facilities;
(d) solid separation, oil skimming and chemical treatment for recycle water; (e) sanitary
treatment facilities; (f) noise abatement facilities; and (g) extensive plantings and
greenery. The new facilities will have no significant negative effect on air quality at any
location. No acquisition of land is required for this project.
6.    Since virtually all of ZICC's production will go to an existing CISCG mill, the
economic and financial analysis have been conducted on an incremental basis for the
Chongqing Iron and Steel Company (Group) Limited (CISCG). CISCG is designated a
"Key" company for the production of steel in China and it is expected to play a major
role in the industrialization of China by assisting in the growth of the construction,
transportation equipment, and machinery industries.
7.    In June 1995, CISCG was transformed into a state-owned limited liability
company. As a result, the company has obtained more autonomy of management, and is
reforming its organization structure in order to make it more responsive to market forces.
Some of its subsidiaries can now be restructured by means of joint ventures, mergers, or
listing in the stock exchange. In accordance with the new principles, noncore activities of
the group, like hospital, school, housing, will separate from CISCG.
The Market
8.    With the proposed steel-making plant at ZICC the product mix of CISCG will
change, as seen in Table 1. The billets of the new EAF will be supplied to CISCG for
rolling on an existing medium section mill built in 1991, while the existing wire rod mill
will be renovated to cope with the increase in production. The company will then be able
to produce yearly 600,000 tons of plates, 260,000 tons of heavy structurals, 280,000 tons
of medium structurals (supplied in billets by the new EAF), and 200,000 tons of wire rods
per year. The quality of the steel and resulting finished products will be considerably
higher than the ones currently being produced.
9.    Output of the medium section mill will serve mainly the coal mining industry, the
automotive industry, the shipbuilding industry and raw material for seamless tubes and
local rerollers. The principal markets for plates are plate fabricators, construction, and
the ship and barge-building industry. The fabricators produce a range of industrial
equipment including steam boilers and pressure vessels. Structural sections are used in
construction for industrial and commercial buildings, bridges, and power plants. Wire
rods are used in the building construction and steel parts industries.
10.   Despite antiquated steel-making equipment, ZICC is currently competitive with
foreign steel on a delivered basis in Chongqing. As seen in Table 1, when tariffs and
transportation charges are added to foreign steel prices, c.i.f. Nanjing, CISCG's prices are



-142 -                          ANNEX 3.11
lower. Moreover, the planned prices for the new medium section products are also in line
with those of foreign material delivered to Chongqing, at $350 per ton. This compares
with average product costs of $265 per ton.
Table 1: CHANGES IN CISCG's FINISHED PRODUCTS MIX
1994                             2000
Sales        Sales       Import         Sales        Sales
volume        price       parity        volume        price
('000 tons)     ($/t)        ($/t)      ('000 tons)     ($/t)
Plate                    501.3         440           520         600.0          520
Wire Rod                  93.1          304          380         200.0          380
Seamless Tube             15.1          586            n.a.         0.0           -
Silicon Plate             92.5         450             n.a.         0.0           -
Heavy Sections            14.4          442          520         260.0          520
Medium Sections          167.8          331          350         280.0          350
Light Sections             6.5          310          340            0.0           -
Total/Average price      890.8                                 1,340.0
Project Cost and Financing Plan
11.    Capital required for the project is estimated at $98.97 million including interest
during construction. The Capital Cost Estimate is summarized in Table 2:
Table 2: CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE
($'000)
Description                                   Foreign         Local          Total
Land Preparation and Civil Works                  -          11,646.81      11,646.81
Equipment (including freight and duties)      25,040.84      21,810.36      46,851.20
Engineering                                     959.18        3,232.01       4,191.19
Installation and Utilities                        -           6,355.80       6,355.80
Subtotal                              26,000.02       43,044.98      69,045.00
Contingencies: Physical                        2,600.00       4,304.50       6,904.50
Financial                          650.00        6,476.40       7,126.40
Subtotal                               3,250.00       10,780.90      14,030.90
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    29,250.02       53,825.88      83,075.90
Interest during Construction                   4,066.30           -          4,066.30
Working Capital Increase                          -          11,830.00      11,830.00
Subtotal                               4,066.30       11,830.00      15,896.30
GRAND TOTAL                           33,316.32       65,655.88      98,972.20



-143 -                     ANNEX 3.11
12.   A summary of the proposed financing plan with capital expenditures of $83.1
million plus interest during construction and working capital requirements is shown in
Table 3:
Table 3: FINANCIAL PLAN
($'000)
World Bank Loan                           42,000.00
Short tern Loan (Working Capital)      11,800.00
Total Financed Amount                                         53,800.00
Equity Contribution                       45,172.00
Total Equity Contribution                                     45,172.00
Total Financing Plan                                          98,972.00
Disbursement of the Loans and Equity
13.   Table 4 summarizes the disbursement forecasts by sources of funds.
Table 4: DISBURSEMENT PLAN
($'000)
Sources of Funds                   1996   1997  1998  1999  2000  Total
Cash Generation                   3,353  5,107 11,322  8,390      - 28,172
Capital Increase                      - 17,000      -      -      - 17,000
Total Equity                3,353 22,107 11,322  8,390     - 45,172
World Bank Loan                       - 11,981 17,976 12,043      - 42,000
Domestic Bank Loan                    -      -      - 7,700  4,100 11,800
Total Loans                     - 11,981 17,976 19,743  4,100 53,800
TOTAL DISBURSEMENT    3,353 50,088 23,298 18,133  4,100 98,972
Financial and Economic Rates of Return
14.   Financial and economic evaluations for CISCG (Figure 1) were undertaken on an
incremental basis, comparing a projected situation without the project with a projected
case where the new investment is installed. The profits from the projected case without
project are subtracted from the profits in the situation where the project is developed.
The incremental increase in profits is applicable to the investment cost of the new



-144 -                       ANNEX 3.11
facilities. The economic analysis started with the financial statements presented in the
Financial Evaluation, adjusting the inputs and outputs to reflect the economic values of
the national resources employed.
15.   In the situation without project it was assumed that ZICC's EAF is shut down in
late 1999. CISCG's annual production remains steady at the projected 1,080,000 tons.
Because of the mix changes by increasing the shipments of wire rods (to 195,000 tons),
and heavy and medium structurals (to 375,000 tons), while discontinuing sales of
seamless tube, silicon plate and light sections. Plate production would remain stable at
about 510,000 tons. Nonsteel revenues, representing 16 percent of sales in 1994 and 20
percent in 1995, are expected to decrease to 10 percent of sales thereafter.
16.   The projected situation with ZICC's new electric-arc furnace takes the projected
situation without the project and super imposes the planned steel-making shop. CISCG's
yearly production increases to 1,340,000 tons, including 260,000 tons of heavy sections,
and 280,000 tons of medium sections. In order to calculate the rates of return, these
incremental cash flows calculated in both financial and economic terms are applied to the
ZICC investment, including the capital cost, interest, depreciation, and operating costs
associated with revarnping CISCG's existing wire rod mill. Under this evaluation,
ZICC's new electric-arc furnace investment generates a financial internal rate of return
(FRR) of 17 percent, and an Economic Internal Rate of Return (ERR) of 20 percent.
17.   The risks associated with the project were evaluated by applying sensitivity
analysis to the ERR, as shown in Table 5. The project is most sensitive to declines in
sales revenues. A 10 percent drop in average prices of the project output reduces the
ERR to 17 percent. The economic evaluation also indicates the project is sensitive to
increases in the operating costs, but not in an way that could seriously jeopardize its
feasibility. The "worst case" scenario, whereby the project would suffer simultaneously
from a decrease of 10 percent in sales, an increase of 10 percent in the operating costs and
an increase of 20 percent in the capital costs would still generate an ERR at the
acceptable level of 12 percent. Selling prices would have to decline by 24 percent in
financial terms and by 30 percent in economic terms to make the Net Present Value turn
negative (at a discount rate of 11 percent).
Table 5: SENSITIVITY TEST ON INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN
Financial            Economic
Rate of Return       Rate of Return
1. Base case                                     17%                   20%
2. Sale Revenue: down I0%                        14%                   17%
3. Operating Costs: up 10%                       15%                   18%
4. Capital Costs increase: up 20%                14%                   17%
5. "Worst case" scenario (2+3+4)                 10%                   12%
18.   CISCG is well advanced in the process of getting government approval for the
construction of a new wire rod mill within its premises. If approval is obtained for this



-145-                       ANNEX3.11
facility, the existing wire rod mill, built in the mid-i 980s but of antiquated technology,
will not be renovated and will be closed instead. Production will be shifted from the
heavy structurals and medium sections mills to the new wire rod mill, and the final
product mix of CISCG will be the following: 600,000 tons of plates, 460,000 tons of
heavy and medium structurals, and 300,000 tons of wire rods per year. CISCG was not
able to provide guarantees that this new mill will be constructed and ready for operation
by the time the new EAF is commissioned, but an alternative case prepared by the
company and reviewed by the Bank (available in the project files) shows that the new
wire rod mill would enhance further the profitability of the project.
Financial Condition of CISCG
19.   CISCG's balance sheet has been affected by the austerity program established by
the Central Government in June 1993. Credit has been severely tightened resulting in
what is translated as a "triangular debt crisis." Customers cannot pay invoices for steel
shipped and steel suppliers have experienced significant increases in accounts receivable.
The offsetting liability is an increase in short-termn debt to finance working capital and
accounts payable. Benefiting to the fact that the company belongs to the small group of
companies having been selected as models for enterprise reform, CISCG has reacted
quickly to this situation. When it became a limited liability company, CISCG was
authorized to convert into equity of a significant portion of its debt, and this allowed the
company to keep its total debt within reasonable levels.
20.   CISCG's profitability will improve under the project, with net income expected to
increase from about $3 million in 1994 to about $29 million when the project reaches full
production by 2002. As a percentage of sales should improve from 2 to 5 percent over
the same period. Total indebtedness will improve further with the project, as total debt-
to-equity is expected to decline from 73:27 in 1994, to 42:58 in 2002. However, during
1996-98 costs will rise faster than revenues and debt repayments will increase
substantially (a total of $126 million will be due local banks over the three-year period),
and CISCG will be unable to meet the debt service covenant under the project without a
new debt-equity conversion allowing the company to achieve the required debt service
coverage of 1.2.
21.   During negotiations, assurances were received that unless otherwise agreed, by
December 31, 1999, CM will provide additional equity to CISCG of Y 140 million, and
that CISCG will: (a) maintain a debt/equity ratio of 70:30 or better; (b) maintain a debt
service coverage ratio of at least 1.2; and (c) furnish to the Bank for review, by October
31 of each year from 1996 to the third year after the startup of operations of the new
facility, its rolling five-year financial plans, including production, marketing and
investment plans, in the forn of projected financial statements. Such plans will be
supported by: (i) a detailed analysis of production cost trends; (ii) analysis of operational
and financial budget variances for the current fiscal year; and (iii) financing arrangements
for the investments proposed over the five-year period. In addition, CISCG will submit
to the Bank its annual accounts audited by independent accountants within six months of
the end of the fiscal year.



-146 -                          ANNEX 3.11
Figure 1: CISCG-FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN CALCULATION
($ million)
1/ FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
Pro jection
1996   1997   1998   1999  2000 2001 to 2013
Capital Costs
Total Project Cost                       0.0  -53.4  -23.3  -10.3    0.0       0.0
Increase in Incremental Working Capital    0.0    0.0    0.0   -7.7   -4.1     0.0
Operating Costs & Revenues
Incremental Revenue                      0.0    0.0    0.0   99.6  119.4    119.4
Incremental Operating Cost               0.0    0.0    0.0   84.5   99.0      99.0
Incremental Gross Operating Income       0.0    0.0    0.0   15.1   20.4      20.4
INCREMENTAL NET BENEFIT                  0.0  -53.4  -23.3   -2.9   16.3      20.4
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN:               17.3
|NET PRESENT VALUE:                      23.5
(discount rate:)                        11%
2/ ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Proj ection
1996   1997   1998   1999  2000        2001
Capital Costs
Total Project Cost                       0.0  -50.7  -20.6  -10.3    0.0       0.0
Increase in Incremental Working Capital    0.0    0.0    0.0   -7.7   -4.1     0.0
Operating Costs & Revenues
Total Incremental Revenue                0.0    0.0    0.0  119.0  139.9   139.9
Incremental Operating Cost               0.0    0.0    0.0   99.2  116.6   117.1
Incremental Gross Operating Income       0.0    0.0    0.0   19.8   23.3      22.8
INCREMENTAL NET BENEFIT                  0.0  -50.7  -20.6    1.8  23.3       22.8
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN:                20.4
NET PRESENT VALUE:                      31.6
(discount rate:)                        11%



-147-                           ANNEX3.12
ANNEX 3.12: AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA (ABC)
1.     The Institution.  The Agricultural Bank of China was established in August
1951. In subsequent years, it was repeatedly merged into PBC, thereby losing its
independent identity.' In 1979, however, it was reestablished and, until recent years
operated as one of the four "Specialized Banks." With the establishment of policy banks
in 1994, ABC accelerated its efforts to transform into a "commercial bank" responsible
for its own profits and losses. At present, it is categorized as one of the State Commercial
Banks.2 At the end of 1994, ABC had a total staff of 552,709 deployed in 63,816
branches, subbranches, operating offices, savings offices, etc.  Both openings and
closings of branch locations remain subject to approval by PBC. As of December 31,
1994, ABC had assets of Y 1,253 billion and capital of Y 44.8 billion. Although ABC
remains subject to the official government credit plan, increasingly its growth is
influenced by its capacity to mobilize deposits and incrementally to comply with ratio
guidelines detailed in the Commercial Banking Law. In contrast to the other Specialized
Banks, ABC benefited by is supervision of the Rural Credit Cooperatives from which it
was able to gather rural deposits.  It was also the beneficiary in China of early
liberalization in agricultural prices and introduction of market-based incentives that
fostered dramatic growth in agricultural production. China's reforms started in the
countryside in 1979 when the "production-related contract responsibility system" was
introduced and helped increase agricultural production and stimulated a rise in farmers'
income. As a result of reforms in the agricultural economy, production in township and
village enterprises (which were the first to adopt market economy principles) outpaced
production increases in other sectors. On the other hand, ABC continues to carry burdens
of (a) a network that was established to mirror administrative jurisdictions rather than to
meet market needs or to generate profits, (b) the overhang of loans to loss-making
agricultural communes and sales/marketing organizations that now no longer exist, and
(c) operating policies and procedures designed to assure adherence to state directives
rather than to assure efficient and profitable operation.
After being established in 1951, it was merged in 1952, reestablished in 1955, merged in 1957,
reestablished in 1963, merged in 1965, and finally reestablished in 1979.
2 Chinese banks are currently designated as (a) Policy Banks (The State Development Bank of China,
The Agricultural Development Bank of China, The Export Import Bank of China); (b) State
Commercial Banks (The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, The Agricultural Bank of China,
Bank of China, and The People's Construction Bank of China); and (c) Nationwide Commercial Banks
(Bank of Communications, CITIC Industrial Bank, Everbright Bank of China, Hua Xia Bank), and
Other Commercial Banks (including China Investment Bank, China Merchant's Bank, Guangdong
Development Bank, Shanghai Pudong Development Bank, and four others).



-148 -                      ANNEX 3.12
2.    Documents Provided. To facilitate appraisal, ABC has provided (a) audited
financial statements for December 31, 1994, and (b) a copy of the State Council Decree
that reestablished the bank in 1979.  In addition, the Chongqing branch provided
extensive details on its financial position and performance and responded to extensive
data requests from the World Bank..
3.    Ownership and Governance. The bank is 100 percent government-owned. As
with other formerly "Specialized Banks," ABC has not historically had a Board of
Directors or a Supervisory Board. Until the effort in the last several years to separate
policy and commercial lending, the Specialized Banks functioned under the direct
guidance of PBC and implicitly were not themselves responsible for their profits or losses
or their own asset quality. With the establishment of Policy Banks in 1994 and the
enactment of the Commercial Banking Law in 1995, the State Commercial Banks are
now strengthening their internal management and acting with increased autonomy as they
become responsible for their own financial position and performance. Unlike banks
categorized as "Nationwide Commercial Banks," the "State Commercial Banks" are not
yet subject to the full set of requirements outlined in the Commercial Banking Law.
Nevertheless, ABC is preparing itself in a number of ways for an unspecified future day
on which it will be required to comply with the Commercial Banking Law. In this
regard, the bank is drafting a Charter, monitoring its asset and liability ratios, more
carefully  evaluating creditworthiness of borrowers, and evaluating the possible
advantages of alternative organizational structures, e.g., a Board of Directors, Board of
Supervisors, etc.
4.    Financial Position and Performance. Financial statements are audited and
signed by "China Certified Accountants." Due to changes in Chinese accounting
standards in the last several years (e.g., introduction of accrual accounting) and to major
differences in presentation, it is difficult to draw comparisons between December 31,
1994 data and that presented in earlier years. Assets at December 31, 1994 consisted
primarily of (a) loans (47.5 percent), (b) "trust" or "agency" assets (24.2 percent), and (c)
amounts due from PBC (12.1 percent). The single largest source of funding is provided
by deposits (28.2 percent). Deposits consist primarily of individual savings accounts
(46.4 percent), followed by "agricultural deposits" from RCCs (25.4 percent) and by
Industrial and Commercial firms (28.2 percent). Although capital adequacy calculations
on a risk-weighted basis have not yet been released, a simple capital/assets calculation
reveals a low level of capitalization, i.e., 3.6 percent. Profitability (Y 526 million) is low
at 0.04 percent of assets.
5.    Transformation to a Commercial Bank. In November 1992, the Third Plenum
of the Fourteenth Congress of the Communist Party and the State Council mapped out a
strategy of financial sector reform.  In its "Decision Concerning Financial Sector
Reform," the State Council stated "after separating policy-oriented business, existing
state-owned specialized banks shall transform as soon as possible into state-owned
commercial banks and operate as modem commercial banks." As a result of these
decisions, the Agricultural Development Bank of China (ADBC) was formerly



-149 -                      ANNEX 3.12
established on November 18, 1994. Thirty percent of the assets and part of the personnel
of ABC went to ADBC. Because ADBC's offices will only go down to the provincial
level (in 1995), ABC signed an agreement with ADBC under which ABC acts as the
agent for ADBC for business beneath the provincial level. The business taken over by
ADBC includes "policy-oriented" activities previously conducted by ABC, e.g., directed
purchasing of agricultural products, poverty alleviation and other directed programs. In
these selected areas, ADBC assumed both the existing stock and the mandate for the
future flow of policy lending.
6.    Freed of much of the burden associated with its previous role, ABC has moved
rapidly to fashion its new role in a market economy and to improve its own operational
capabilities. Certain items continue to remain outside its own domain for decision-
making, e.g., continued macro control under credit targets established by the government,
administratively established interest rates, personnel policies that are not autonomously
selected, etc. Nevertheless, ABC is making impressive strides in selecting a viable target
market, in identifying and managing risk, and in improving its own policies and
procedures. Its program for reform includes the following key points:
(a)   Customer Focus. ABC has placed an increased focus on the customer as
the basis of its marketing efforts. ABC is acting to preserve its strength in
the rural areas while at the same time moving aggressively to serve
selected customer segments in the growing and profitable urban area.
(b)   Structural Adjustments. ABC management recognizes that the existing
branch network is inefficient and that it was established to mirror
administrative levels within the government and not to serve market needs.
Efforts are now under way to improve the network by opening new offices
in attractive (economically vibrant and growing) areas while closing,
merging, or downsizing offices which cannot be justified based on existing
or prospective financial performance.
(c)   Focus Branches on Operational Activities.  Provincial and even
subprovincial branches have in the past focused more on management and
conveying government directives than they have on providing financial
services. An effort is now under way to move staff from administrative
roles into operational responsibilities.
(d)   Liability Structure.  ABC (similar to other Specialized Banks) has
historically relied on PBC for funding. Today, ABC is increasing its
efforts to mobilize deposits, to increase deposit types, to optimize service
quality in order to retain deposits, and to expand services so that it can act
as an agent in various fee-generating activities. The goal of these efforts is
to improve the liability mix and, thereby, to lower the bank's cost of
funds.



-150 -                      ANNEX 3.12
(e)   Asset Management. Historically, the Specialized Banks acted more as a
conduit of funds in a planned economy than as independent parties
allocating credit based on a borrower's capacity to repay. Today, ABC is
acting to improve its loan assessment capabilities and is attempting to
readjust its loan structure to lower its risk and to improve its profitability.
(f)    Establish Branch Targets for Performance. Clear targets are today
being established for branches and subbranches in areas such as deposits,
lending, and fee generation.
(g)   Manage Personnel. ABC management recognizes that its staff levels are
too high and that efficiency levels are too low. Action has been taken to
limit expansion of staff, to improve staff quality, and to go to the market to
obtain certain needed technical skills.
7.    ABC and The World Bank. In the past, the World Bank has provided four lines
of credit to ABC as a financial intermediary in four separate Rural Credit projects. In
each of these projects, modest amounts of funding have also been provided to improve
ABC's operational capabilities; in each project, ABC's performance has been quite
acceptable. At present, however, ABC and the World Bank are processing a fifth loan-
the primary purpose of which will be to assist ABC in transforming into a viable
commercial bank. In preparation for this fifth loan, Anderson Consulting has been
engaged and is currently conducting studies in two pilot branches. Anderson's work will
focus on (a) assessing the financial position, performance and controls at the branch level,
(b) conducting a strategic analysis of market conditions, and (c) assisting the branch in
drafting a business plan.
8.    Based on the work currently being performed by Anderson Consulting, ABC will
adjust its own business strategies and act to remedy defects identified in the course of the
Anderson diagnostics. A recent World Bank mission worked with ABC management to
determine how a proposed $45 million in technical assistance under the proposed fifth
loan to ABC could best be used. Areas identified by the mission and discussed with
ABC management focus on: (a) improving planning functions, (b) improving the legal
and organizational structure of the bank, (c) improving financial policies and procedures,
(d) improving human resource development policies and introducing more effective
training, and (e) enhancing information technology.
9.    Credit Approval Process. As part of its efforts to improve loan quality, ABC
has recently separated loan appraisal and loan approval functions. In addition, the bank
has articulated seven specific principles for credit management (e.g., provide support to
profitable and creditworthy borrowers and deny funds to those that are unprofitable or
that fail to service their obligations, extend funds based on the banks own asset/liability
position and based on the bank's own need for liquidity, etc.). In identifying customers,
ABC focuses largely on nonstate sectors but does not deny funds based on ownership;
rather, the bank's focus is on profitability and safety in its lending decisions.



-151-                           ANNEX 3.12
10.    Compliance  with  the  Commercial Banking  Law  and  with  Prudential
Regulations. Despite efforts to improve its own position, ABC carries a very heavy
historical burden. Capital to assets is low (3.6 percent on a nonrisk-adjusted basis) and
levels of past due loans are high.3 At present, the terms of the Commercial Banking Law
do not require ABC to satisfy the capital adequacy, loan to deposit, asset quality or other
standards specified by the Law or by PBC. Rather, the formerly specialized banks and
PBC are now working together to determine over what period the banks will be required
incrementally to achieve full compliance with the new Law. In this regard, ABC is
working both with the authorities and with the World Bank to prepare itself for future
compliance.
11.    The Chongqing Branch. The Chongqing branch has provided detailed financial
information, including projections for 1995-99. Typical of other banks in Chongqing,
ABC has historically been dependent on PBC for supplemental funding. PBC support
has more recently been replaced by increased deposit mobilization and by Head Office
support. At December 31, 1994, the branch's loan-to-deposit ratio (although coming
down) was still in excess of 100 percent. As a result, the branch will need the support of
the Head Office in providing adequate levels of counterpart funds in the CIPCRP.
12.    Expectations for Line of Credit Usage.  The Chongqing branch of ABC
anticipates using $20 million under the CIPCRP.
13.    Conclusion. ABC has historically been one of the pillars of the financial system
in China and has been the main conduit of government support to the rural sector.
Increasingly, the bank is challenged to define a new target market and to create operating
procedures suitable for its autonomous role in a market economy. Efforts to date to
change have been impressive. ABC is working both with the authorities and with the
World Bank to define a time-bound program under which it will transform itself from a
"Specialized Bank" operating in a centrally planned economy into a sound commercial
bank responsible for its own decisions and for its asset quality, its profits, and its losses in
a market economy.
3 A survey of its branches in 1994 showed that "past due" loans were 12 percent (versus the guideline in
the more recently published PBC guidance of 8 percent or less), and "stale" loans were 9 percent
(versus PBC guidance of 5 percent or less). The numbers, however, are somewhat misleading given
that MOF/PBC definitions of "past due" include only those principal payments that are (a) past due
more than six months (yu qi) and less than three years, and (b) those that are past due more than three
years (cui shou) including those that are "dead" (dai zhang). A number of ABC's branches follow a
more conservative practice of categorizing loans as past due immediately after the maturity date has
passed rather than waiting six months. The inconsistency in how definitions are applied often make
comparisons from one bank to another (or even one branch to another) quite misleading.



-152-                         ANNEX3.12
ATTACHMENT 1
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1a
(Y'000,000)
BALANCE SHEET
Years Ended 12/31                 1990       1991       1992       1993        1994
ASSETS
Cash                             6,600      7,100       8,756     13,436     15,180
PBC Total                       72,800     85,900      85,860    117,161    151,170
Interbank Total                  16,800    27,800      57,807     39,494     63,972
Net Loans                      377,200    457,500    546,377    652,636    595,309
Foreign Exchange                10,700      17,200    27,340      37,961          0
Bonds                            4,600      6,100       7,983     10,304
Net Investments                                                              29,678
Net Fixed Assets                 6,700       7,200      7,826     20,990     25,036
Net Other Receivables
Other Assets                    44,900     56,200     90,765    126,368      66,819
TrustlAgency "Assets"           13,500     21,500     34,950      37,946    305,889
TOTAL ASSETS                 553,900    686,500    867,664  1,056,296   1,253,053
LIABILITIES
Total Deposits                 264,000    331,900    413,094    518,383    604,983
Interbank Liabilities           27,600     30,100     45,738     31,862      74,272
DuetoPBC                       143,900    175,000    208,112    278,513      84,748
Bonds+Financial Depo             1,000      1,500       1,860       968       9,131
Foreign Exchange                 8,700      14,700    23,432     35,757          0
Other Liabilities               65,000     79,600    106,219    121,207    415,454
Trust/Agency "Liabilities"      13,700     21,700     35,167     38,150      19,665
TOTAL LIABILITIES           523,900    654,500    833,622   1,024,840   1,208,253
Total Capital                   30,000     32,000     34,042      31,456     44,800
TOTAL FOOTINGS              553,900    686,500    867,664  1,056,296  1,253,053
Capital Chart
Paid in Capital                                                              42,690
Capital Surplus                                                               1,410
Reserve/Retained                                                               174
Undistributed Profit                                                           526
Other                                                                            0
Total Capital                30,000      32,000     34,042     31,456     44,800
La Explanation of the blanks in the following financial statements: since 1993 substantial
improvement has been made in the quality of financial information and accounting methods.
As a result, especially in earlier years, financial data are often either not available or are not
comparable to those presented in later years.



- 153 -                      ANNEX 3.12
INCOME STATEMENT
Year Ending 12/31                1990       1991      1992       1993       1994
Interest Income                           75,500     93,013    149,145    122,919
Interest Expense                         -66,700    -78,889   -128,791    -95,977
Other Operating Income                                 785        892        816
Operating Expenses                                   -5,496     -8,077    -14,781
Commissions/Services                                 -1,117     -1,360     -2,361
Business Taxes                                       -2,040     -2,957     -3,899
Other Expenditures                                   -4,327     -6,113     -6,520
Profit on Operations                                  1,929     2,739        197
Nonoperating income                                                          174
Investment Income                                                          1,435
Loss adjustment previous year                                                -93
Nonoperating expenses                                                       -544
Income tax                                                                  -643
"Net Profit"                            1,600      1,929      2,739       526
Chart of Deposit Types
Industrial & Commercial        57,500     71,400     97,511    116,587    170,602
Agricultural Deposits          85,300    102,800    118,340    149,154    153,711
Savings Deposits              121,200    157,700    197,243    252,642    280,670
Other Deposits
Total Deposits              264,000    331,900    413,094    518,383    604,983
Chart of Loan Types
Bills, Remittance, OD
Short Term Loans                                                         511,380
Long Term Loans                                                           67,205
Loans+ Inv Exp <1 yr                                                      15,361
Loans to Finance Co                                                        4,161
Working Capital               313,500    378,300    448,199    536,305
Fixed Assets                    7,600     10,000     13,918     16,902
Agricultural Loans             56,300     69,500     84,693    99,661
Total Loans                   377,400    457,800    546,810    652,868    598,107
Less: Loss Reserves               200       300        433        232      2,798
Net Loans                  377,200    457,500    546,377    652,636    595,309



-154 -                       ANNEX 3.12
Year Ending 12/31                1990       1991      1992       1993       1994
Chart of PBC Assets
Required Reserve               34,000     43,100     51,805    63,721     86,207
Deposits in PBC                38,800     42,800     34,055     53,440    57,036
Financial Deposit/PBC                                                      7,927
Total PBC Assets             72,800    85,900     85,860    117,161    151,170
Chart of Interbank Activities
Balances with Banks            16,800     27,800     57,807     39,494
Due From Banks                                                            26,645
Call Loans to Banks                                                       37,327
Total Assets                 16,800    27,800     57,807     39,494     63,972
Due to Banks                   27,600     30,100     45,738    31,862     54,584
Call Loans/Banks                                                          19,688
Total Liabilities            27,600    30,100     45,738     31,862     74,272
Chart of Trust and Agency Activities
Trust Activities                5,500     12,100     25,044    27,038
Agency Activities               8,000      9,400      9,906     10,908
Agency as ADBC                                                           287,893
Agency as PBC                                                             17,996
Total "Assets"               13,500    21,500     34,950     37,946    305,889
Trust Activities                5,500     12,100     25,044    27,038
Agency Activities               8,200      9,600     10,123     11,112
Agency as ADBC
Agency as PBC                                                             19,665
Total "Liabilities"          13,700    21,700     35,167     38,150     19,665



-155 -                       ANNEX 3.12
Year Ending 12/31                  1990      1991      1992       1993      1994
Provisioning for Bad Loans La
Reserve for dead loans (year start)           200       300       433        232
Provision for dead loans
Dead loans written off
Reserve for dead loans (year end)             300       433       232      2,798
Total Loans                  377,400   457,800   546,810   652,868   598,107
Balance Sheet Ratios
CAPITAL ADEQUACY
Total Capital                             32,000    34,042    31,456    44,800
Risk Weighted Assets
Ratio
LOAN/DEPOSITS
Total Loans                              457,500   546,377   652,636   595,309
Total Deposits                           331,900   413,094   518,383   604,983
Ratio                                     137.8%    132.3%    125.9%      98.4%
La Approximately 16 percent (Y 95 billion) and 3 percent (Y 17.8 billion) of ABC's
loans at 12/31/94 were characterized as "past due" (i.e., overdue more than six
months) or "stale" (i.e., overdue more than three years). "Bad" loans are a subset of
"stale" loans; the amount at 12/31/94 is not available.



-156 -                       ANNEX 3.12
ATTACHMENT 2
ABC CHONGQING BRANCH-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Y'000)
BALANCE SHEET
Years Ended 12/31                1990       1991       1992       1993       1994
ASSETS
Cash                           22,910     28,550     29,220     59,160     68,030
Reserves at PBC               281,260    352,940    427,100    547,490    704,200
Deposits at PBC                60,110     71,310    103,430    145,830    304,700
Interbank Deposits          2,296,660  2,914,190  4,117,910  12,466,010  9,205,360
Net Loans                    2,984,180  3,766,390  4,575,400  5,570,730  5,924,540
Foreign Exchange               45,180     58,120    174,870    228,730    412,700
Securities                     38,020     51,020     65,020     80,390     21,330
Net Investments                                                           203,920
Net Fixed Assets               49,750     82,920     84,990    257,890    313,380
NetOtherReceivables            17,940     20,820     33,120      7,850     47,580
Other Assets                    4,100      3,220     29,680     82,910    198,240
Trust Activities               51,420     53,900     61,490      1,650     16,140
Agency (PBC)                      440        850        870        830      3,810
Total Assets              5,851,970  7,404,230  9,703,100 19,449,470 17,423,930
LIABILITIES
Total Deposits               1,936,150  2,554,910  3,087,720  4,136,920   5,620,390
Interbank Deposits          2,496,800  3,043,420  4,423,920  12,868,420  10,501,210
Borrowed from PBC             797,070   1,076,420   1,388,920   1,498,920  17,300
Bonds Issued                    9,800     14,210     12,000      2,920         80
Foreign Exchange               45,180     58,120    174,870    228,730    412,700
Other Liabilities             133,780    128,840     94,720    124,250    463,570
Trust & Investment              4,510      6,800      5,670      1,710
Agency                        119,240    142,830    153,840    181,790      6,040
TOTAL LIABILITIES         5,542,530  7,025,550  9,341,660 19,043,660 17,021,290
Total Capital                 309,440    378,680    361,440    405,810    402,640
TOTAL FOOTINGS            5,851,970  7,404,230  9,703,100 19,449,470 17,423,930
Capital Chart
Paid in Capital               280,040    318,510    331,690    375,270    375,440
Capital Surplus                   460       -280      2,540     21,770     12,060
Retained Earnings                                                             930
Undistributed Profit           28,940     59,890     27,210      8,770     14,210
Other
Total Capital              309,440    378,680    361,440    405,810    402,640



-157 -                        ANNEX 3.12
INCOME STATEMENT
Year Ending 12/31                 1990       1991       1992       1993       1994
Interest Income                382,000    432,180    615,690    977,490  1,233,880
Interest Expense               297,110    310,310    474,480    820,510    948,060
Net Interest Income            84,890    121,870    141,210    156,980    285,820
Provision for Loss               1,260      4,130     19,240     28,210     36,430
Other Operating Income           2,730      8,200     12,130     20,320      6,130
Revenue after Provision         86,360    125,940    134,100    149,090    255,520
Admin & Operating Expenses      44,230     50,200     76,980    108,390    195,650
Nonoperating Revenue             1,260      1,590        790      1,810      1,360
Nonoperating Expenses              970      2,510     11,190      3,380     11,110
EBT                             42,420     74,820     46,720     39,130     50,120
Business Taxes                  13,480     14,930     19,510     30,360     35,910
"Net Profit"                 28,940     59,890     27,210      8,770     14,210
(Profit taxes are consolidated at HO level)
Detailed Chart of Administrative and Other Operating Expenses
Salaries                         7,490      8,170     10,740     15,240     44,050
Travel, Conferences,             4,910     10,580     15,640     23,280     35,290
Utilities, Trans & Misc
Rent                             2,480      3,520      5,240      8,860      6,050
Computer Communic.               1,480      1,190      2,660      4,760      5,340
Fee Expenses                     1,740      4,080      8,420      5,240     18,410
Security                         1,260      4,130     19,240     28,210     36,240
Depreciation                     3,780      4,520      6,270     11,190     28,550
All Other Exp                   21,090     14,010      8,770     11,610     21,720
Total                        44,230     50,200     76,980    108,390    195,650



-158-                       ANNEX3.12
Year Ending 12/31               1990       1991      1992       1993      1994
Capital Changes
Total Capital/Start           280,500    309,440    378,680    361,440    405,810
Year's Net Profit              28,940    59,890    27,210      8,770     14,210
New Capital Issued
Dividends
Adjustments (+ or-)                       9,350    -44,450    35,600    -17,380
Total Capital/End          309,440   378,680   361,440    405,810    402,640
Chart of Loan Types
Bills, Remittance, OD
Working Capital             1,541,350  1,772,040  2,287,800  2,850,370  2,768,150
Fixed Assets                  243,320   274,450    324,530    438,510    664,000
Agricultural Loans          1,199,510  1,720,590  1,963,080  2,290,360  2,500,850
Total Loans                 2,984,180  3,767,080  4,575,410  5,579,240  5,933,000
Less: Loss Reserves                         690        10      8,510      8,460
Net Loans                 2,984,180  3,766,390  4,575,400  5,570,730  5,924,540
Chart of Loan Maturities
Maturing in < I year        2,660,500  3,427,230  3,871,140  4,095,100  3,936,050
Maturing in 1-3 years         185,250    119,120   464,600  1,126,920  1,383,860
Maturing in > 3 years         138,430   220,730    239,670    357,220    613,090
Total Loans               2,984,180  3,767,080  4,575,410  5,579,240  5,933,000
Chart of Deposit Maturities
Demand Deposits             1,243,950  1,615,970  1,934,560  2,021,430  2,954,570
Maturing in < I year           48,950    72,320     70,470    345,350    274,030
Maturing in 1-3 years         643,250    865,100  1,072,820  1,743,090  2,140,890
Maturing in > 3 years         -           1,520      9,870    27,050    250,900
Total Deposits            1,936,150  2,554,910  3,087,720  4,136,920  5,620,390
Chart of Deposit Types
Ind. & Commercial             191,300   258,020    337,580    417,830  1,191,350
Agricultural Deposits         232,240   309,850    371,770    382,660    164,870
Savings Deposits              920,990  1,192,810  1,485,660  2,016,050  2,841,980
Other Deposits                591,620    794,230    892,710  1,320,380  1,422,190
Total Deposits            1,936,150  2,554,910  3,087,720  4,136,920  5,620,390



-159-                        ANNEX3.12
YearEnding 12/31                 1990      1991       1992      1993       1994
PBC Loan Categories
PBC Req.
Loan Category:
Past due (< 3 years)                     119,120    464,600  1,126,920  1,383,870
Stale (>3 years)                        635,570    571,310    479,490    632,760
Bad Loans                                 85,160    68,360     77,730    180,300
All Other Loans                        2,927,230  3,471,140  3,895,100  3,736,070
Total Loans                            3,767,080  4,575,410  5,579,240  5,933,000
% Past Due                       S8%       3.2%      10.2%     20.2%      23.3%
% Stale                          5%      16.9%      12.5%      8.6%      10.7%
% Bad                            2%       2.3%       1.5%      1.4%       3.0%
Provisioning for Bad Loans
Opening Reserve                 2,020         0        690         10     8,510
Provision for bad loans         1,260     4,130     19,240     28,210    36,430
Bad loans written off           3,280      3,440    19,920     19,710    36,480
Closing Reserve                    0        690         10      8,510     8,460
Total Loans                 2,984,180  3,767,080  4,575,410  5,579,240  5,933,000
Balance Sheet Ratios
CAPITAL ADEQUACY
Total Capital                          378,680    361,440    405,810    402,640
Risk Weighted Assets                  3,637,850  4,269,400  5,176,830  4,637,150
Ratio                                    10.4%      8.5%       7.8%       8.7%
LOAN/DEPOSITS
Total Loans                           3,767,080  4,575,410  5,579,240  5,933,000
Total Deposits                        2,554,910  3,087,720  4,136,920  5,620,390
Ratio                                   147.4%     148.2%    134.9%     105.6%
LIQUIDITY
Current Assets                        1,772,040  2,287,800  2,850,370  2,768,150
Current Liabilities                   1,688,290  2,005,030  2,366,780  3,228,600
Ratio                                   105.0%     114.1%    120.4%      85.7%
LARGE EXPOSURE
Loans to I Borrower                     26,050     33,660     41,700    133,200
Total Capital                          378,680    361,440    405,810    402,640
Ratio                                     6.9%      9.3%      10.3%      33.1%



-160 -                        ANNEX 3.12
Year Ending 12/31                 1990       1991       1992       1993       1994
Chart of Fixed Assets
Fixed Assets at Cost            63,450    101,070    108,020    292,120    375,410
Accum. Depreciation             13,700     18,150     23,020     34,230     62,030
Net Fixed Assets                49,750     82,920     85,000    257,890    313,380
Chart of FX Assets and Liabilities
Cash
At PBC and Interbank            36,670     19,680     37,670     43,690    118,520
Loans                            8,090     12,220    121,840    178,070    284,670
Trust and Agency
Collections
LCs and Guarantees
Other                              420     26,220     15,360      6,970      9,510
Total FX Assets                45,180     58,120    174,870    228,730    412,700
Deposits                        19,540     30,240     43,730     36,840    104,510
Interbank                        3,650      1,300     58,980    156,050    276,180
Bonds Issued
Trust and Agency
Collections/customers
LCs & Gtee/customers
Other                           21,990     26,580     72,160     35,840     32,010
Total FX Liabilities         45,180     58,120    174,870    228,730    412,700
Chart of Receivables
WC Exp Sundries                    510        150       240        270
Foreclosed Assets                           1,220      1,560         50
Equipment not received                      6,370      3,930
Equipment not received                      1,600        800
Other Receivables               17,430     11,480     26,590      7,530     47,580
Prov for Bad Accts
Net Receivables             - 17,940    20,820     33,120      7,850     47,580
Chart of Other Assets
Reserves                                                         55,350     89,750
Rehabilitation Exp                                                          51,340
Rep off start up exp                                                        12,850
Other Receivables
All Other Assets                 4,100      3,220     29,680     27,560     44,300
Prov for Bad Aects
Net Other Assets               4,100     3,220     29,680     82,910    198,240



-161-                       ANNEX 3.12
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET
Years Ended 12/31               1995       1996      1997       1998      1999
ASSETS
Cash                           68,030    69,391     70,779    72,195     73,638
Reserves at PBC               913,310   958,978  1,006,927  1,057,273  1,110,137
Deposits at PBC               491,780    526,205    563,039    602,452    644,623
Interbank Deposits          9,609,360  9,801,547  9,997,578 10,197,529 10,401,480
Net Loans                   7,109,670  8,176,121  9,402,539 10,812,919 12,434,857
Foreign Exchange               45,650    53,950    64,740     77,190     83,166
Securities
Net Investments               225,250    236,513    249,338    260,755    273,793
Net Fixed Assets              329,040    345,490    362,750    380,900    399,930
Net Other Receivables          63,720    64,994    66,294     67,620     68,972
Other Assets                  198,050   202,011    206,051    210,172    214,376
Trust Activities
Agency Activities               3,810     4,001     4,201      4,411      4,632
Other                           7,830     7,987      8,146     8,309      8,475
Total Assets             19,065,500 20,447,188 22,002,382 23,751,725 25,718,079
LIABILITIES
Total Deposits              7,025,480  7,376,754  7,745,592  8,132,871  8,539,515
Interbank Deposits         11,097,620 11,130,900 11,098,120 10,968,390 10,700,200
Borrowed from PBC              17,300    18,165     19,073    20,027    21,028
Bonds Issued                      80         84        88        92         97
Foreign Exchange               45,650    53,950    64,740     77,190     83,166
Other Liabilities             465,680  1,434,553  2,577,670  3,987,923  5,736,705
Trust & Investment
Agency                          6,040     6,342      6,659     6,792      6,928
TOTAL LIABILITIES        18,657,850 20,020,748 21,511,942 23,193,285 25,087,639
Total Capital                 407,650   426,440    489,440    558,440    630,440
TOTAL FOOTINGS           19,065,500 20,447,188 22,001,382 23,751,725 25,718,079
Projected Capital
Paid in Capital               375,440   375,440    375,440    375,440    375,440
Capital Surplus                18,000    25,000    36,000     48,000    65,000
Retained Earnings
Undistributed Profit           14,210    26,000    38,000     55,000    70,000
Other                                              40,000     80,000    120,000
Total Capital              407,650   426,440    489,440    558,440    630,440



-162 -                       ANNEX 3.12
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENT
Year Ending 12/31/               1995      1996       1997       1998      1999
Interest Income              1,447,200  1,591,920  1,754,900  1,936,220  2,128,840
Interest Expense             1,176,400  1,284,670  1,416,430  1,544,730  1,683,190
Net Interest Income          270,800    307,250    338,470    391,490    445,650
Less: Provision for Loss          290       320        350       400        440
Other Operating Income         30,800     33,880    37,260     40,980    45,070
=Revision after Provisions    301,310    340,810    375,380    432,070    490,280
Admin & Operating Expenses    248,040    271,840    290,120    325,130    363,140
Nonoperating Revenue            4,230      4,650     5,110      5,620      6,180
Nonoperating Expenses             790       870        950      1,040      1,150
=EBT                           56,710     72,750    89,420    111,520    132,170
All Taxes                      42,500     46,750    51,420     56,520     62,170
Net Profit                   14,210    26,000     38,000    55,000     70,000
Projected Admin & Other Op Costs
Salaries                       45,760    50,330     55,360     60,890    66,980
Travel, Conferences,
Utilities, Trans &Misc        38,810    42,690     46,950     51,640    56,800
Rent                           10,660     15,720    17,290     19,010    20,910
Computer Communic.             15,870     19,870    22,950     20,240    27,760
Fee Expenses                   20,250    22,300     24,530     26,980    29,670
Security                        2,620     2,880      3,160      3,470     3,820
Depreciation                   31,400     34,540    37,990     41,780    45,950
All Other Expenses             82,670    83,510     81,890    101,120    111,250
Total                      248,040   271,840    290,120   325,130    363,140



-163 -                          ANNEX 3.12
Past Due Loan and Interest Chart (as of 12131/94)
A              B         C          D           E           F        G(=E+F)
# of     Loan      Interest     "P'          "I"     Total "P'+"I"
Loans    Amount   Accrued    Past Due    Past Due    Past Due
Loans with "P" or "I" overdue:
1-90 Days                7,905     80,306                 80,306       6,263      86,569
91-180 Days             15,810    160,612                160,612      12,142      172,754
181-365 Days            23,715    245,918                245,918       1,917     247,835
1-3 years               19,763    203,265                203,265       1,598     204,863
>3 years                11,857    122,959                122,959      41,989      164,948
Subtotal              79,050    813,060                813,060      63,909     876,969
Loans without Overdues:
In Grace Period
In Repayment Period
Subtotal             993,639  5,119,940
Total Loans        1,072,689   5,933,000
Note: Chinese Banks capture ONLY the principal and interest PAYMENTS past due. Their internal
systems generally do not allow them to capture the actual total amount of principal and interest
which is associated with a past due payment and which, therefore, is impaired and at risk.



-164 -                       ANNEX 3.12
SECTORAL CONCENTRATION OF BORROWERS (as of 12/31/94)
Sectoral Distribution              # of Loans    Loan Amount         % of Total
Loans for Industry                   112,892         2,052,300           34.6
Loans for Commerce                    87,721         2,273,250           38.3
Loans for Agriculture                781,954          498,200             8.4
Loans for Construction
Loans for Transportation
Loans for Energy
All Other Loans                       90,122         1,109,250           18.7
TOTAL LOANS                      1,072,689        5,933,000          100.0
OWNERSHIP OF BORROWERS (as of 12/31/94)
Ownership Category                 # of Loans    Loan Amount         % of Total
STATE-OWNED:
SOEs (Central Government)                15          127,000             2.1%
Local Government                    409,161         3,533,446           59.6%
NONSTATE-OWNED:
Foreign Owned                             0                0
Joint Venture                            25          380,804             6.4%
Private Individuals
Private Companies   -               127,143          286,060             4.8%
Collective Ownership                536,345         1,321,050           22.3%
ALL OTHER LOANS                                       284,640
TOTAL LOANS                      1,072,689        5,933,000          100.0%



-165-                         ANNEX3.13
ANNEX 3.13: CHINA MERCHANTS BANK (CMB)
1.    The Institution. The China Merchants Bank' was established in April 1987 and,
as of the end of 1994, operated 6 branches2 in addition to the Head Office, 11
subbranches, and over 70 operations and representative offices (including one in Hong
Kong). Locations are concentrated in rapidly growing markets and have been selected
not based on administrative jurisdictions but rather on market demand, sound
development principles, and approval of PBC. As of December 31, 1994, CMB had
assets of Y 44.7 billion and capital of Y 3.7 billion. Staffing at the end of 1994 totaled in
excess of 3,100. CMB is outside of the official government credit plan; its growth is
controlled exclusively by asset/liability ratios specified in the Commercial Banking Law,
by regulations of PBC and by the bank's own assessment of profit potential and risk
inherent in expansion.
2.     Documents Provided. To facilitate appraisal, CMB has provided (a) audited
financial statements3 for December 31, 1994, (b) its Banking License (issued by PBC),
(c) its Legal Person License (issued by the Industrial and Commercial Administration
Bureau), and (d) its Foreign Exchange License (issued by the State Foreign Exchange
Administration Bureau), and (e) responses to a data request from the World Bank.
3.    Ownership. At inception in 1987, CMB was fully owned by the Hong Kong
Merchants Bureau Shekou Industrial Finance Company Group, which was in turn fully
owned by the Ministry of Communications. In 1987, Hong Kong Merchants Group
capitalized the bank with initial equity of Y 100 million. In 1989, new share capital was
issued (Y 400 million) to seven new shareholders. In 1994, the number of shareholders
rose to 98 by virtue of a new 1.8 billion share offering. At present, the sectoral
distribution of shareholders is: transportation (70.4 percent), manufacturing (6.5 percent),
finance (5.5 percent), commerce and trade (0.81 percent) and others (16.9 percent). The
top 22 shareholders control 85.3 percent of the stock, and the largest 2 owners4 hold
Chinese banks are currently designated as (a) Policy Banks (The State Development Bank of China,
The Agricultural Development Bank of China, The Export Import Bank of China); (b) State
Commercial Banks (The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, The Agricultural Bank of China,
Bank of China, and The People's Construction Bank of China); and (c) Nationwide Commercial Banks
(Bank of Communications, CITIC Industrial Bank, Everbright Bank of China, Hua Xia Bank), and
Other Commercial Banks (including China Investment Bank, China Merchant's Bank, Guangdong
Development Bank, Shanghai Pudong Development Bank, and four others).
2 Head Office in Shenzhen plus separate branches in Shenyang, Beijing, Wuhan, Shanghai, Chengdu,
and Guangzhou.
3 Financial statements are "audited" by Zhonghua (Shekou) Certified Public Accountants.
4 Hong Kong Merchants Bureau Shipping Limited Liability Company and China Overseas Shipping
Group.



-166 -                        ANNEX 3.13
27.8 percent and 13.0 percent, respectively. Of the 22 largest shareholders, 8 are limited
liability companies, 3 are investment companies, and the majority of the remainder are
provincial-level transportation bureaus, transportation groups or companies. Through
ownership of shareholders, the Hong Kong Merchants Group (wholly owned by the
Ministry of Transportation) controls 32.1 percent of the stock. Through ownership of the
Hong Kong Merchants Group and of other shareholders, the Ministry of Transportation
controls 69.2 percent of the stock of the bank.  Seventy-five percent of capital is
denominated in renminbi, with the remainder in foreign currencies.
4.    Governance and Management. The highest ownership control over the CMB is
exercised by the Shareholders' Meeting. Both a Board of Directors and a Board of
Supervisors report to the Shareholders.  An Executive Committee (or President's
Committee) reports directly to the Board of Directors and has a dotted line reporting
channel to the Board of Supervisors.
5.    Financial Position and Performance and Loan Composition. Assets5 consist
primarily of loans (47.3 percent), due from banks (13 percent), due from PBC
(11.6 percent), deferred assets (7.4 percent), and investments (2.4 percent). Loans are
predominantly to SOEs (40.9 percent); the second largest borrower concentration by
ownership is in joint ventures (17.8 percent). The largest sectoral concentrations of loans
are: manufacturing6 (30.4 percent), basic industries7 (23.5 percent), trade' (20.6 percent),
and raw materials9 production (15.4 percent). Less than 15 percent of loans are made
with tenures beyond one year. Fifty percent of loans are made in the Shenzhen economic
zone. Domestic loans constitute 86.3 percent of loans. Loans are denominated in both
local currency and foreign currencies, 52.7 percent and 47.3 percent, respectively. The
largest borrower exposure constitutes 6.6 percent of capital (versus PBC limit of
15 percent) and the largest 10 borrowers constitute an exposure of 44.9 percent of capital
(versus PBC restriction of 50 percent). The major source of funding comes from
deposits, giving CMB a relatively healthy 82.6 percent loan-to-deposit ratio. Mandated
activities also constitute a significant part of assets (12.8 percent) and are fully financed
by mandated deposits. Profitability is high at 2.8 percent return on the average of
December 31, 1993 and December 31, 1994 assets.
6.    Asset Quality. Past due, stale, and dead loans are low by Chinese banking
standards at 2.8 percent, 0.07 percent and 0.02 percent, respectively (versus PBC
guidelines of 8 percent, 5 percent, and 2 percent).
Unless otherwise noted, financial data described is that of 12/31/94 since details on 12/31/95 are not yet
available.
6 Including textiles, cars, equipment, etc.
7 Including energy, communications, transportation, etc.
8 Including both wholesale and retail.
9 Including oil, iron and steel, etc.



-167 -                     ANNEX 3.13
7.    Operating Controls and the Credit Approval Process. In 1994, PBC directed
CMB to take the -lead in the financial sector by fully relying on asset liability ratios to
control the banks sound growth. As a result, CMB constituted an Asset Liability
Committee and has been tracking compliance with each of 10 ratios promulgated by
PBC. Key in the banks efforts to control risk and enhance profitability is its focus on
asset quality. Its four major principles for approving loans are: (a) prospective borrowers
must conform to the bank's credit policies and must demonstrate by projections the
ability to repay the proposed loan, (b) the loan must be used for a purpose which will
support favorable development of the sector and the borrower's technological
improvement, (c) all loans advanced must be covered by an excess of collateral and/or by
guarantees from one or more guarantors, and (d) the increase in the bank's loans must
leave the bank in compliance with all regulations of PBC. Specific prohibitions exist for
loans (a) to loss-making enterprises, (b) to enterprises that have past due loans, and (c)
enterprises with low efficiency or limited repayment abilities.
8.    At December 31, 1994, of 223 of the 2,078 staff members in CMB were assigned
to Credit Departments. To assure compliance with these requirements, lending authority
is delegated to seven levels within the bank: (a) Subbranch Manager, (b) Manager of a
Branch Credit Department, (c) Manager of a Branch, (d) Branch Credit Committee, (e)
Manager of the Head Office Credit Department, (f) Head Office Vice President
responsible for Credit, and (g) Head Office Credit Committee and the President's
Council.
9.    Compliance with the Commercial Banking Law  and with Prudential
Regulations. CMB appears to be well capitalized, profitable, and liquid. It monitors its
compliance with all PBC requirements. Although historically well above prudent loan-
to-deposit ratios, it has recently brought this ratio down to more acceptable levels.
10.   The Chongqing Branch. The Chongqing operation is now in the startup phase
with actual opening of the branch scheduled for early 1996. Current plans are for a
staffing of approximately 30 individuals. Capital allocation is yet to be determined.
Virtually all of the loans processed under the project will require Head Office approval.
11.   Expectations for Line of Credit Usage. The China Merchants Bank anticipates
using approximately $20 million.
12.   Objectives for the Year 2000. Current CMB plans envision the bank growing to
assets of Y 200 billion, profits of Y 4 billion, and staff of 10,000 by the year 2000. The
branch network would then include 32 domestic branches and 4 foreign operations
(branch or representative offices).
13.   Conclusion. CMB continues to grow rapidly but is supporting its asset growth
with acceptable levels of profitability and with new equity issues. It has taken a lead in
the financial sector by pioneering asset and liability management, by establishing a
modem management and governance structure, and by focusing on profitable and rapidly
growing markets. Its entry into the Chongqing market should foster competition and
improve the quality of financial services available to Chongqing enterprises.



-168-                         ANNEX3.13
ATTACHMENT 1
CHINA MERCHANTS BANK-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1a
(Y'O00)
BALANCE SHEET
Years Ended 12/31                 1990      1991       1992       1993       1994
ASSETS
Cash                             7,378     13,092    29,222    194,300    362,960
Reserves at PBC                 52,343    167,317    286,236    539,813  1,447,940
Deposits at PBC                 79,416    406,868    368,850    911,927  3,725,190
Interbank Deposits             334,950    713,469  1,012,548  1,254,460  5,814,580
Net Loans                    2,066,444  2,981,385  4,829,192  7,924,330 21,159,470
Securities
ST Securities/Invest            28,400     28,886     87,804    215,160  1,055,290
LT Investments                                       39,847    569,500    832,560
Net Fixed Assets                20,642     25,253     39,334    103,250    732,480
Net Other Receivables           20,576     39,040    45,747    238,210    563,650
Deferred & Other                75,834    191,243    620,664    490,900  3,308,940
Trust Activities
Mandated Activities           1,386,512  2,117,923  3,052,466  3,381,080  5,728,750
TOTAL ASSETS               4,072,495  6,684,476 10,411,910 15,822,930 44,731,810
LIABILITIES
Total Deposits               1,247,462  2,628,162  4,773,357  9,554,800 25,628,830
Interbank Deposits             385,687    563,019    509,392    174,470  2,698,340
Borrowed from PBC              215,000     80,000    220,000    300,000    665,800
Remittance                       5,742     36,717    32,344     84,010    251,700
Misc A/P                       124,464    129,331    185,178    457,770    796,810
Other Liabilities              184,584    356,882    886,025    470,490  4,819,060
Mandated Deposits             1,416,520  2,337,519  3,071,666  3,566,480  6,203,730
TOTAL LIABILITIES          3,579,459  6,131,630  9,677,962 14,608,020 41,064,270
Total Capital                  493,036    552,846    733,948  1,214,910  3,667,540
TOTAL FOOTINGS             4,072,495  6,684,476 10,411,910 15,822,930 44,731,810
Capital Chart
Paid in Capital                400,000    400,000    500,000    500,000  1,122,730
Capital Surplus                 69,726    121,809    189,201    338,060  1,711,700
Retained Earnings               21,859     27,294    42,070
Undistributed Profit             1,451      3,743     2,677    376,850    833,110
Other
Total Capital               493,036    552,846    733,948  1,214,910  3,667,540
la Explanation of the blanks in the following financial statements: since 1993 substantial
improvement has been made in the quality of financial information and accounting methods.
As a result, especially in earlier years, financial data are often either not available or are not
comparable to those presented in later years.



-169 -                       ANNEX 3.13
Income Statement
Year Ending 12/31/               1990       1991      1992       1993       1994
Interest Income                190,964    234,416    289,636    588,719  1,619,471
Interest Expense               55,123     84,706    113,011    236,388    793,612
Net Interest Inc              135,841    149,710    176,625    352,331    825,859
Provision for Loss               8,477     2,290     21,168    30,426     46,496
Other Operating Income         41,566     71,077    154,465    257,442    688,281
Revenue after Provision        168,930    218,497    309,922    579,347  1,467,644
Admin & Operating Expenses     96,899    116,076    132,419    104,761    513,575
Nonoperating Revenue             9,110       535      3,415    23,286     97,971
Nonoperating Expenses            8,436     1,021      1,451    31,672      2,685
EBT                             72,705    101,935    179,467    466,200  1,049,355
All Taxes                       17,605    23,025     38,632    89,350    216,240
Net Profit                   55,100     78,910    140,835    376,850    833,115
Chart of Administrative and Other Operating Expenses
Rent & Utilities                 1,101     1,761      3,590     7,510     51,783
Salaries                         1,078     1,489      3,379     7,009     31,759
Exp for new outlets               727      1,921      4,037     10,464    20,456
Depreciation                      538      1,186      3,628     9,529     26,571
Postage                           446      1,180      1,982     4,376     10,167
Promotion & Advert.               293      1,249      2,597     5,881      5,881
Dividends                      46,963     39,212     36,266
All Other Exp                  45,753     68,078     76,940    59,992    366,958
Total                        96,899    116,076    132,419    104,761    513,575
Chart of Tax Expenses
Bus Tax+Surch.                   8,326    10,186     15,136    29,830     79,930
Profit Taxes                    9,279     12,839     23,496    59,520    136,310
Other Taxes
Total Taxes                  17,605    23,025     38,632     89,350    216,240



-170 -                       ANNEX 3.13
Year Ending 12/31/               1990      1991      1992       1993      1994
Capital Chart
Total Capital/Start           445,081    493,036    552,845    733,947  1,214,910
Year's Net Profit              55,101    78,910   140,834   376,846    833,105
New Capital Issued                 1              101,098              622,727
Dividends                      -8,032    -12,048    -16,065  -210,201
Adjustments (+ or-)              886    -7,053   -44,765    314,318    996,798
Total Capital/End          493,036   552,845   733,947  1,214,910  3,667,540
Chart of Loan Types
Bills, Remittance, OD           8,920    90,680     89,740   481,160
Working Capital              1,028,720  1,582,900  2,090,680  5,113,790 12,102,690
Fixed Assets                   99,500    58,300    41,960   433,830
All Other Loans               937,130  1,250,044  2,610,479  1,910,900  9,118,200
Total Loans                 2,074,270  2,981,924  4,832,859  7,939,680 21,220,890
Less: Loss Reserves             7,826       539      3,667    15,350    61,420
Net Loans                 2,066,444  2,981,385  4,829,192  7,924,330 21,159,470
Chart of Loan Maturities
Maturing in < 1 year                                       6,447,770 18,045,980
Maturing in 1-3 years                                       1,491,910  3,174,910
Maturing in > 3 years
Total Loans               2,074,270  2,981,924  4,832,859  7,939,680 21,220,890
Chart of Deposit Maturities
Demand Deposits                                             7,297,030 20,351,730
Maturing in < 1 year                                        1,347,710  4,491,230
Maturing in 1-3 years                                        910,060    785,870
Maturing in > 3 years
Total Deposits            1,247,462  2,628,162  4,773,357  9,554,800 25,628,830
Chart of Deposit Types
Ind. & Commercial           1,135,990  2,435,032  4,499,370  8,429,860 19,414,810
Agricultural Deposits
Savings Deposits               54,970    117,490   268,570    462,030  1,568,660
Other Deposits                 56,502    75,640      5,417   662,910  4,645,360
Total Deposits            1,247,462  2,628,162  4,773,357  9,554,800 25,628,830



-171-                        ANNEX 3.13
Year Ending 12/31/               1990       1991      1992       1993       1994
PBC Loan Categories
PBC Req.
Loan Category:
Past due (<3 years)                       70,367    125,314    172,862    594,492
Stale (>3 years)                           7,864     18,523    13,676     15,478
Bad Loans                                  3,152      5,031     4,089      4,122
All Other Loans                        2,900,541  4,683,991  7,749,053 20,606,798
Total Loans                          2,981,924  4,832,859  7,939,680 21,220,890
% Past Due                       58%      2.36%      2.59%      2.18%     2.80%
% Stale                          5%      0.26%      0.38%      0.17%     0.07%
% Bad                            2%      0.11%      0.10%      0.05%     0.02%
Provisioning For Bad Loans
Reserve at start                5,791      7,826       539      3,667     15,350
Provision Expense               2,035      2,423     21,835    30,160     46,070
Bad loans written off                     -9,710    -18,707    -18,477
Reserve at End                  7,826        539      3,667     15,350    61,420
Total Loans               2,074,270  2,981,924  4,832,859  7,939,680 21,220,890
Balance Sheet Ratios
CAPITAL ADEQUACY
Total Capital                           552,846    733,948  1,214,910  3,667,540
Risk Weighted Assets                                        7,624,300 17,272,660
Ratio                                                          15.9%     21.2%
LOAN/DEPOSITS
Total Loans                           2,981,385  4,829,192  7,924,330 21,159,470
Total Deposits                        2,628,162  4,773,357  9,554,800 25,628,830
Ratio                                   113.4%     101.2%      82.9%     82.6%
LIQUIDITY
Current Assets                                              3,115,050 11,229,640
Current Liabilities                                         7,318,980 19,395,960
Ratio                                                          42.6%     57.9%
LARGE EXPOSURE
Loans to I Borrower                                 88,073    133,640    241,880
Total Capital                           552,846    733,948  1,214,910  3,667,540
Ratio                                               12.0%      11.0%      6.6%



-172 -                       ANNEX 3.13
Year Ending 12/31/               1990       1991       1992      1993       1994
Chart of Fixed Assets
Fixed Assets at Cost            21,859    27,293     44,746    120,773    778,830
Accum. Depreciation              1,218     2,041      5,412     17,523    46,350
Net Fixed Assets             20,641     25,252    39,334    103,250    732,480
Chart of FX Assets
Cash                             3,547     4,066     12,066     60,240    73,684
At PBC and Interbank            98,715    394,764    278,803    555,042    880,078
Loans                          901,790  1,316,180  2,437,140  3,570,830  9,939,860
Trust and Agency                13,940    222,636    54,980    237,610    490,080
Collections                       555      1,186       563     30,640    182,773
LCs and Guarantees              66,062    139,886    446,150    408,614    520,969
Other                          180,649    203,598  1,249,047  1,301,952  4,674,849
Total FX Assets           1,265,258  2,282,316  4,478,749  6,164,928 16,762,293
Chart of FX Liabilities
Deposits                  -   850,560  1,288,970  2,593,820  4,678,190 11,557,050
Interbank                       48,431    63,789     97,935    46,400     94,368
Bonds Issued
Trust and Agency                 4,020    209,060    54,980    237,610    436,300
Collections/customers             555      1,186       563     30,640    182,773
LCs & Gtee/customers            66,062    139,886    446,150    408,614    520,969
Other                          190,438    607,382  1,238,383    659,028  2,415,194
Total FX Liabilities      1,160,066  2,310,273  4,431,831  6,060,482 15,206,654
Chart of Deferred and Other Assets
Deferred Assets                   913      2,866      5,617     12,607    144,968
Guarantees Issued                7,883    12,788      3,228     7,692    819,470
Collections Receivable            555      1,187       596     30,639    182,773
Export LCs Receivable             862      9,378     15,330    28,444    364,530
All Other Assets                65,621    165,024    595,893    411,518  1,797,199
Prov for Bad Accts
Net Other Assets             75,834    191,243    620,664    490,900  3,308,940



-173 -                       ANNEX 3.13
Year Ending 12/31/               1990       1991      1992       1993       1994
Chart of Investments
ST Investments
Securities                     27,600     13,886     87,804    215,160    726,000
Stocks                            800        800                          12,669
Self-Operated Securities                                                  71,443
Customer's Securities                                                         11
Other ST Investments                      14,200                         245,167
Subtotal                     28,400     28,886    87,804    215,160  1,055,290
LT Investments
Securities                                                    355,880    502,262
Stocks                                               39,847
Other LT Investments                                          213,620    330,300
Subtotal                         0          0     39,847    569,500    832,562
Reserve for Risk                                                  690      2,760
Net Investments              28,400     28,886    127,651    783,970  1,885,092
Chart of Receivables
Accounts Receivable              6,798    14,290     16,506    38,777    200,942
Past Due Interest               13,778    24,750     29,241
Other Receivables                                              199,833    364,048
Subtotal                     20,576    39,040     45,747    238,610    564,990
Prov for Bad Accts                                               -400     -1,340
Net Receivables              20,576     39,040    45,747    238,210    563,650



-174-                      ANNEX3.13
OWNERSHIP OF BORROWERS (as of 12/31/94)
Ownership Category                     # of Loans Loan Amount    % of Total
STATE-OWNED:
SOEs (Central Government)
Local Government
Subtotal                                          8,679,344        40.9
NONSTATE-OWNED:
Foreign Owned
Joint Venture
Subtotal                                          3,777,318        17.8
Private Individuals
Private Companies
Subtotal                                          2,376,740        11.2
Collective Ownership                                3,204,354        15.1
ALL OTHER LOANS/LEASES                               3,183,134        15.0
TOTAL LOANS                                      21,220,890       100.0



-175-                          ANNEX3.14
ANNEX 3.14: EVERBRIGHT BANK OF CHINA (EBBC)
1.    The Institution.  The Everbright Bank of China (EBBC) was established in
August 1992 upon approval of the State Council and the People's Bank of China. It is
categorized as a Nationwide Commercial Bank' and, as of the end of 1995, had
established eight branches2, two subbranches and a number of representative offices.
Locations are selected not based on administrative jurisdictions but rather on economic
regions, market demand, sound development principles and the approval of PBC. As of
December 31, 1994, EBBC had assets of Y 20.2 billion and capital of Y 1.4 billion. By
December 31, 1995, assets and capital had grown to Y 33.7 billion and Y 1.6 billion,
respectively. Staffing at the end of 1995 totaled 1,594. EBBC's growth is controlled by
asset/liability ratios specified in the Commercial Banking Law, by regulations of PBC
and by the bank's own assessment of profit potential and risk inherent in expansion.
2.     Documents Provided. To facilitate appraisal, EBBC has provided (a) audited
financial statements3 for December 31, 1994, (b) preliminary unaudited financials for
December 31, 1995, (c) its Banking License (issued by PBC), (d) its Foreign Exchange
License (issued by the Industrial and Commercial Management Bureau), (d) authorization
to open the Chongqing Branch (issued by PBC), (e) its Bank Charter, (f) a comprehensive
manual of operating procedures including credit approval processes, and (g) responses to
a data request from the World Bank. In addition, the Chongqing branch provided
extensive details on its financial position and performance.
3.     Ownership and Governance.  The bank is owned 100 percent by the China
Everbright Group Limited.   The Group was founded in  1990 in Beijing  as a
comprehensive enterprise conglomerate. It is a 100 percent state-owned enterprise under
an approval by the State Council and operates at a ministerial level (similar to the China
International Trust and Investment Corporation-CITIC). The group was originally
focused on real estate and investment activities but has increasingly turned to banking
Chinese banks are currently designated as (a) Policy Banks (The State Development Bank of China,
The Agricultural Development Bank of China, The Export Import Bank of China); (b) State
Commercial Banks (The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, The Agricultural Bank of China,
Bank of China, and The People's Construction Bank of China); and (c) Nationwide Commercial Banks
(Bank of Communications, CITIC Industrial Bank, Everbright Bank of China, Hua Xia Bank), and
Other Commercial Banks (including China Investment Bank, China Merchant's Bank, Guangdong
Development Bank, Shanghai Pudong Development Bank, and four others).
2 Head Office, Heilongjiang, Shenzhen, Shanghai, Qingdao, Dalian, Changchun, and Chongqing.
3 Financial statements are audited by Zhong Shi Certified Public Accountants. Recognizing the value in
extemal audit, management is considering an attempt to become the first Chinese bank to have a real
audit conducted and has already initiated conversations with several intemational audit firms.



- 176 -                      ANNEX 3.14
activities. In 1990, the group was registered in Beijing and, at present, carries a dual
registration (Hong Kong and Beijing). Senior managers of the group and of the bank
were previously with PBC. Ms. Qiu Qing (Chairman of the Board of both the group and
the bank) has been associated with the financial system in China for over 40 years and
served previously as an Executive Vice Governor of PBC. The bank's highest policy-
making organ is its Board of Directors, to which the President Mr. Tang Gengyao reports.
At present, a number of proposals are under consideration to strengthen the role of the
Board of Directors, e.g., formation of an Executive Committee, an Asset Liability
Committee, and a Credit Policy Committee.
4.    Although current plans are for the group to remain 100 percent state-owned, the
group is now considering options to diversify its ownership of the bank. In 1996, the
group intends to issue new shares and, thereby, reduce its ownership to 51 percent. The
sale of new stock would be designed to enhance both the bank's capital position and its
governance and operational capabilities. Although in principle all potential owners are
welcome, PBC will "qualify" potential shareholders and will, in all probability, disallow
foreign ownership; both state and nonstate owners, however, will be considered. Also in
1996, the group and the bank will apply for PBC approval on how the bank will divest
itself of nine securities firms (which at the end of 1994 accounted for 8.4 percent of the
bank's assets).
5.    Financial Position and Performance. Assets4 consist primarily of (a) Cash, Due
from PBC, and Interbank Deposits (25 percent), (b) Loans (37 percent), and
(c) Investments and various other assets (38 percent). Approximately 40 percent of assets
(and of fumding sources) are denominated in foreign currencies. Of Y 6,590 million in
loans at the end of 1994, 2.5 percent of loan principal payments were past due. Over 60
percent of loans had been approved for working capital purposes and were due to mature
within one year. Thirty percent of loans were for industry and 24 percent were for
commerce. Nearly 59 percent of assets are funded by deposits-of which 39 percent are
"on demand." The maturity structure of time deposits is not disclosed. Profitability (by
Chinese banking standards) was relatively healthy with profits (Y 260 million) after all
taxes and loan-loss provisions producing a 1.28 percent return on assets.
6.    Credit Approval Process. At year-end 1994, of 818 staff members in EBBC, 82
were assigned to Credit Departments, and 46 were assigned to credit-related departments
(Planning and Treasury, Banking, Internal Audit). Within the Credit Department, a
"Marketing Officer" is responsible for identifying acceptable customers, conducting an
initial investigation, disbursing loans, maintaining customer contact, and following up for
collection.  The Marketing Officer is responsible for evaluating the prospective
borrower's management, legitimacy, safety and profitability. Written analyses must
address internal management, repayment capability, profitability, credit record, and
4 Unless otherwise noted, financial data described is that of 12/31/94 since details on 12/31/95 are not yet
available.



-177 -                      ANNEX 3.14
vulnerability to external impacts. In addition, the Marketing Officer is responsible for
confirming the existence and value of potential collateral. In conclusion, the Marketing
officer's report must present the officer's own opinion on the applicant's repayment
capability, and on the prospective benefits and inherent risks of the proposed loan.
7.    The Marketing Officer's report is then sent to a separate "Approval Officer" who
is responsible for evaluating and approving the credit analysis and then making an
appropriate recommendation to the Credit Department General Manager. Approval limits
at each level are based on both the tenure and the proposed amount for a loan. Approval
limits are delegated as follows:
(a)   For loans with a tenure of less than one year: (i) if the amount is less than
Y 5 million, the General Manager of the Credit Department, (ii) between
Y 5 and 30 million, the responsible Executive Vice President, (iii) in
excess of Y 30 million, the Head Office Credit Committee;
(b)   For loans of one to five years: (i) if less than Y 10 million, the responsible
Executive Vice President, (ii) if greater than 10 million, the Head Office
Credit Committee;
(c)   For loans of five to ten years: (i) if less than Y 5 million, the responsible
Executive Vice President, (ii) in excess of Y 5 million, the Head Office
Credit Committee
8.    Compliance with the Commercial Banking Law and Prudential Regulations.
The bank's loan-to-deposit ratio is low (by Chinese standards) at 55.5 percent. Unlike
most other banks in China, EBBC is now calculating its capital adequacy on a "risk-
weighted" basis pursuant to the guidelines published by PBC. At year-end 1994 "capital
adequacy" was calculated at 13.7 percent. As of December 31, 1994, EBBC was well
within the Commercial Banking Law and PBC guidelines for past due loans,
loans/deposits, capital adequacy, liquidity, and large exposures.  As part of its
participating in the project, EBBC will present periodic statements of compliance with
the Commercial Banking Law and with the PBC prudential regulations.
9.    The Chongqing Branch.  During 1994 and 1995, EBBC  maintained a
Representative Office in Chongqing, which is being designated as a Branch in 1996. The
Chongqing office was (during 1994 and 1995) fully engaged in gathering deposits and
making loans. As of December 31, 1994, loans of Y 276 million were outstanding; these
constituted 37 percent of assets of Y 742 million. The single largest concentration of
ownership by borrower is local govenmment (48 percent), followed by SOEs (21 percent),
and collective ownership (15 percent). Loans to deposits were slightly under 90 percent.
In the Chongqing office at the end of 1994 were staff of 84, of which 8 were in the Credit
Department and 4 were in Internal Audit.
10.   Expectations for Line-of-Credit Usage.  The Chongqing branch of the
Everbright Bank of China anticipates using between $15 million and $20 million.



-178-                       ANNEX3.14
11.   Objectives for the Year 2000. According to current plans, EBBC targets for the
year 2000 include assets of Y 120-150 billion, 10-15 branches, 15-20 subbranches, and
100-150 representative offices. In addition to its expressed financial targets for its future
development, EBBC management has identified the following five priorities and
principles for its future efforts:
(a)   To focus on development within the context of a market economy,
complying with the Commercial Banking Law, addressing the needs of
customers, functioning efficiently, and relying on itself for its own profits
and losses;
(b)   To completely perfect its system of asset/liability management;
(c)   To improve its system of risk prevention and management;
(d)   To deepen its internal reforms and regulatory systems; and
(e)   To strengthen its control and management over its branch system.
12.   Conclusion. In the short period since its founding, EBBC has demonstrated
impressive growth.  The pace of its growth appears to be controlled, based on
management's own assessment of its ability to manage the growth. The bank's focus on
international management approaches, its compliance to date with prudential regulations
issued by PBC, and its desire to improve its own operating policies and procedures
suggest that it will provide borrowers and depositors with a viable alternative to older
state-owned banks that may increasingly be burdened with inadequate control systems
and high levels of nonperforming debt. The Chongqing Branch has been adequately
staffed to process credit requests under the project; its entry into the Chongqing market
will present a challenge to existing financial institutions and will encourage competition
and improve customer service.



-179 -                        ANNEX 3.14
ATTACHMENT 1
EVERBRIGHT BANK OF CHINA-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS La
(Y'000)
BALANCE SHEET
Years Ended 12/31                       1992        1993         1994        1995
ASSETS
Cash                                     164        9,965      13,428      55,123
Reserves at PBC                       35,758      521,527    1,188,518    1,768,688
Deposits at PBC                       91,867    1,527,689    1,347,141    1,595,806
Interbank Deposits                   705,831    2,247,600    2,785,178    4,895,880
Net Loans                           1,097,063    2,758,723    6,568,083   12,532,033
Foreign Exchange
Securities                                       696,483      457,188     238,781
Net Investments                    -  13,000      169,592     927,041    1,565,414
Net Fixed Assets                                   10,562      56,930     166,361
Net Other Receivables                  5,091       26,587     204,160     781,620
Other Assets                         703,265      921,477    6,571,690    8,697,950
Trust Activities                                               11,541     973,516
Agency Activities                                              10,000     240,915
Leasing                               25,966       99,196      97,908     173,939
TOTAL ASSETS                     2,678,005   8,989,401   20,238,806   33,686,026
LLABILITIES
Total Deposits                       802,323    3,489,066   11,880,244   19,044,817
Interbank Deposits                   518,662    3,122,860    1,526,581    2,762,936
Borrowed from PBC                     190,000    445,000    1,352,000     560,000
Bonds Issued
Foreign Exchange
Other Liabilities                    363,826      882,260    3,746,138    8,601,687
Trust Activities                                               25,741    1,046,927
Agency                                             84,654     268,923      72,648
TOTAL LIABILITIES                1,874,811    8,023,840   18,799,627   32,089,015
Total Capital                        803,193     965,561    1,439,179    1,597,011
TOTAL FOOTINGS                      2,678,004    8,989,401   20,238,806  33,686,026
Capital Chart
Paid in Capital                      775,000      775,000     775,000     775,000
Capital Reserves                       13,873      16,283     148,738     142,230
Retained Earnings                                  13,672     192,632     298,084
Undistributed Profit                   14,320     160,606     322,809     381,697
Other
Total Capital                      803,193     965,561    1,439,179    1,597,011
la Explanation of the blanks in the following financial statements: since 1993 substantial
improvement has been made in the quality of financial information and accounting methods.
As a result, especially in earlier years, financial data are often either not available or are not
comparable to those presented in later years.



-180 -                     ANNEX 3.14
INCOME STATEMENT
Year Ending 12/31                    1992       1993       1994       1995
Interest Income                    28,515    330,999   1,186,927   2,024,988
Interest Expense                   15,472    160,727    809,770   1,398,894
Net Interest Income               13,043    170,272    377,157    626,094
Provision for Loss                             5,791     15,504
Other Operating Income              5,484     24,219    140,906    392,426
Revenue after Provision            18,527    188,700    502,559   1,018,520
Admin & Operating Expenses          3,221     17,996    126,786    486,119
Nonoperating Revenue                             971        805       1,427
Nonoperating Expenses                            489      8,936       1,592
EBT                                15,306    171,186    367,642    532,236
All Taxes                            986      10,581    107,904    229,853
Net Profit                      14,320    160,605    259,738    302,383
Chart of Administrative and Other Operating Expenses
Salaries                               0       1,460     12,424     36,305
Rent and Utilities                  1,515      4,149     27,861     62,886
Travel, Propaganda, Entertainment,   923       5,155     49,177     40,602
Post, etc.
Computer Communic.                    97       1,908      6,658     15,972
and Maintenance
Depreciation                           0        279       4,243     13,719
Fee Expenses                         138        333       1,976     14,979
All Other Exp                        547       4,712     24,447    225,130
Total                            3,220     17,996    126,786    486,119
Chart of Tax Expenses
Bus Tax+Surch.                       986      10,581     44,832     80,918
Profit Taxes                                             63,072    148,935
Other Taxes
Total Taxes                        986     10,581    107,904    229,853



-181-                      ANNEX 3.14
Year Ending 12/31                   1992       1993       1994       1995
Capital Chart
Total Capital/Start              775,000    803,193    965,561
Profit B4 Income Tax              14,320    160,606    322,809
New Capital Issued
Dividends
Adjustments (+ or-)                13,873      1,762    150,810
Year-End Capital                 803,193    965,561   1,439,180
Profit Taxes                                            63,072
After Tax Capital              803,193    965,561   1,376,108
Chart of Loan Types
Bills, Remittance, OD                                   70,780
Working Capital                  503,870   1,772,230   4,046,950
Fixed Assets                     385,780    425,530    566,390
All Other Loans                  207,413    566,644   1,905,466
Total Loans                     1,097,063   2,764,404   6,589,586
Less: Loss Reserves                           5,681     21,503
Net Loans                    1,097,063  2,758,723   6,568,083
Chart of Loan Maturities
Maturing in < 1 year             503,863   1,782,494  4,280,896
Maturing in 1-3 years            593,200    981,910   2,308,690
Maturing in > 3 years
Total Loans                  1,097,063  2,764,404  6,589,586
Chart of Deposit Maturities
Demand Deposits                  180,840   1,603,286  4,642,954
Maturing in < I year
Maturing in 1-3 years
Maturing in > 3 years
Total Time Deposits              621,500   1,885,760   7,237,290
Total Deposits                 802,340  3,489,046  11,880,244



-182 -                     ANNEX 3.14
Year Ending 12/31                    1992       1993       1994        1995
Chart of Deposit Types
Ind. & Commercial                 504,580   3,175,050  11,033,520
Agricultural Deposits
Savings Deposits                              25,140    246,520
Other Deposits                    297,760    288,876    600,204
Total Deposits                 802,340   3,489,066  11,880,244
PBC Loan Categories
PBC Req.
Loan Category:
Past due (< 3 years)                                     164,590
Stale (>3 years)
Bad Loans
All Other Loans                  1,097,063   2,764,404   6,414,996
Total Loans                   1,097,063   2,764,404   6,579,586
% Past Due               8%        0.0%        0.0%       2.5%
% Stale                  <5%         0.0%       0.0%       0.0%
% Bad                    <2%         0.0%       0.0%       0.0%
Provisioning for Bad Loans
Reserve for bad loans (year start)
Provision for bad loans                        5,681      15,822
Bad loans written off
Reserve for bad loans (year end)
Total Loans                   1,097,063   2,764,404   6,589,586
Balance Sheet Ratios
CAPITAL ADEQUACY
Total Capital                    803,193    965,561   1,439,179
Risk Weighted Assets                                 10,518,520
Ratio                                                    13.7%
LOAN/DEPOSITS
Total Loans                     1,097,063   2,758,723   6,568,083  12,532,033
Total Deposits                   802,323   3,489,066  11,880,244  19,044,817
Ratio                             136.7%      79.1%      55.3%      65.8%
LIQUIDITY
Current Assets                                        2,589,730
Current Liabilities                                   5,041,740
Ratio                                                    51.4%
LARGE EXPOSURE
Loans to 1 Borrower                                      80,500
Total Capital                    803,193    965,561   1,439,179   1,597,011
Ratio                                                     5.6%



-183-                      ANNEX3.14
Year Ending 12/31                    1992       1993       1994        1995
Chart of Fixed Assets
Fixed Assets at Cost                           11,087     60,892
Accum. Depreciation                              525       3,962
Net Fixed Assets                            10,562     56,930
Chart of FX Assets
in ($'000 on B/S @)                            5.80        8.45
Cash                                            1,125      1,657
At PBC and Interbank              116,726    251,457    213,450
Loans                              26,810    130,655    331,858
Trust and Agency                    4,000     22,700       7,682
Collections                            79         58       1,688
LCs and Guarantees                 10,262     40,697    157,287
Other                              53,555      9,158    221,579
Total FX Assets                211,432    455,850    935,201
Chart of FX Liabilities
Deposits                           29,293    198,282    437,441
Interbank                          90,000     79,360      16,756
Bonds Issued
Trust and Agency                    4,000     22,700       7,682
Collections/customers                  79         58       1,688
LCs & Gtee/customers               10,262     40,697    157,287
Other                              16,157     56,933    172,384
Total FX Liabilities           149,791    398,030    793,238
Chart of Investments
ST Gov't Bonds                                           299,000
Other ST Investments                         123,468    119,909
LT Gov't Bonds
Other LT Investments               13,000     46,214    508,364
Other Investments
Prov for Bad Accts                                90        232
Net Investments                  13,000    169,592    927,041



-184 -                     ANNEX 3.14
Year Ending 12/31                   1992       1993       1994       1995
Chart of Receivables
Interest Receivable                4,875      13,495     74,664
AR under Frwrd Trans                                     52,184
Bills for collections                 99       7,112     76,923
Other Receivables                    116      6,000        513
Prov for Bad Accts                               20        125
Net Receivables                  5,090     26,587    204,159
Chart of Other Assets
FX Settlement w/PBC               73,794    173,958    401,760
Interbank Loans                  569,845    383,256   3,108,864
Internat'l Clearing               59,477    296,378   1,373,203
Sec/under Repo Agr.                                   1,227,938
Deferred Assets                               12,921     53,402
Branch Reconciliation                         39,264    176,227
All Other Assets                     148      15,699    230,296
Prov for Bad Accts
Net Other Assets               703,264    921,476  6,571,690



-185 -                      ANNEX 3.14
SECTORAL CONCENTRATIONS OF BORROWERS (as of 12/31/94)
Sectoral Distribution               # of Loans   Loan Amount      % of Total
Loans for Industry                                  1,978,860         30.0
Loans for Commerce                                  1,605,730         24.4
Loans for Agriculture
Loans for Construction
Loans for Transportation
Loans for Energy
All Other Loans                                     3,004,996         45.6
TOTAL LOANS                                      6,589,586         100.0
Note.  All other loans include foreign trade enterprises, foreign-funded enterprises,
mortgage loans, buyer's and seller's credit, packing credit, and other trade
financing facilities.



-186-                        ANNEX3.14
ATTACHMENT 2
EBBC CHONGQING BRANCH-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Y'000)
BALANCE SHEET
Years Ended 12/31                                          1994
ASSETS
Cash                                                      1,076
Reserves at PBC
Deposits at PBC                                          32,851
Interbank Deposits                                      149,940
Net Loans                                               276,436
Foreign Exchange
Securities                                              211,124
Net Investments
Net Fixed Assets                                            316
Net Other Receivables                                       558
Other Assets                                             17,025
Trust Activities                                         35,900
Agency Activities
Interbank Loans                                          16,898
TOTAL ASSETS                                         742,124
LIABILITIES
Total Deposits                                          308,023
Interbank Deposits                                       14,178
Borrowed from PBC                                        43,000
Bonds Issued
Foreign Exchange
Other Liabilities                                      300,017
Trust Activities                                         75,600
Agency
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                      740,818
Total Capital                                             1,306
TOTAL FOOTINGS                                       742,124
Detailed Chart of Capital
Paid in Capital
Capital Surplus
Retained Earnings                                         1,306
VJndistributed Profit
Other
Total Capital                                          1,306



-187 -                      ANNEX 3.14
INCOME STATEMENT
Year Ending 12/31                                       1994
Interest Income                                        15,133
Interest Expense                                       14,991
Net Interest Income                                      142
Provision for Loss
Other Operating Income                                  8,930
Revenue after Provision                                 9,072
Admin & Operating Expenses                              6,778
Nonoperating Revenue
Nonoperating Expenses                                      63
EBT                                                     2,231
All Taxes                                                926
Net Profit                                           1,305
Chart of Administrative and Other Operating Expenses
Rent & Utilities                                        2,892
Computer & Commun.                                       711
Fees                                                     362
Supplies                                                 259
Travel Expenses                                           186
Salaries                                                  127
Personal Taxes                                            139
All Other Expenses                                      2,102
Total                                                6,778
Chart of Tax Expenses
Bus Tax+Surch.                                           926
Profit Taxes
Other Taxes
Total Taxes                                            926



-188 -                     ANNEX 3.14
Year Ending 12/31                                       1994
Changes in Capital
Total Capital/Start
Year's Net Profit                                      1,306
New Capital Issued
Dividends
Adjustments (+ or -)
Total Capital/End                                   1,306
Chart of Loan Types
Bills, Remittance, OD                                   252
Working Capital                                      275,184
Fixed Assets
All Other Loans                                        1,000
Total Loans                                          276,436
Less: Loss Reserves
Net Loans                                         276,436
Chart of Loan Maturities
Maturing in < 1 year                                 276,436
Maturing in 1-3 years
Maturing in > 3 years
Total Loans                                       276,436
Chart of Deposit Maturities
Demand Deposits                                      142,051
Maturing in < 1 year                                 154,699
Maturing in 1-3 years                                 11,273
Maturing in > 3 years
Total Deposits                                    308,023
Chart of Deposit Types
Ind. & Commercial                                    279,200
Agricultural Deposits                                 14,203
Savings Deposits
Other Deposits                                        14,620
Total Deposits                                    308,023



-189-                       ANNEX3.14
Year Ending 12/31                                     1994
PBC Loan Categories
PBC Req.
Loan Category:
Past due (< 3 years)                                  6,800
Stale (>3 years)
Bad Loans
All Other Loans                                    269,636
Total Loans                                        276,436
% Past Due                          <8%               2.5%
% Stale                             <5%               0.0%
% Bad                               <2%               0.0%
Provisioning for Bad Loans
Reserve for bad loans (year start)
Provision for bad loans                                  0
Bad loans written off                              -    0
Reserve for bad loans (year end)
Total Loans                                        276,436
Balance Sheet Ratios
CAPITAL ADEQUACY
Total Capital                                      100,000 (HO allocation)
Risk Weighted Assets                               177,645
Ratio                                               56.3%
LOAN/DEPOSITS
Total Loans                                       276,436
Total Deposits                                    308,023
Ratio                                               89.7%
LARGE EXPOSURE
Loans to 1 Borrower                                45,000
Total Capital                                      100,000 (HO allocation)
Ratio                                               45.0%  (temporary/startup)



-190-                        ANNEX 3.14
Year Ending 12/31                                         1994
Chart of Fixed Assets
Fixed Assets at Cost                                     343
Accum. Depreciation                                       27
Net Fixed Assets                                      316
Chart of FX Assets
Cash                                                    498
At PBC and Interbank                                  30,381
Loans                                                 12,103
Trust and Agency
Collections                                           14,266
LCs and Guarantees
Other                                                  3,210
Total FX Assets                                  - 60,458
Chart of FX Liabilities
Deposits                                              34,317
Interbank
Bonds Issued
Trust and Agency
Collections/customers
LCs & Gtee/customers
Other                                                 26,141
Total FX Liabilities                               60,458



-191-                        ANNEX 3.14
OWNERSHIP OF BORROWERS (as of 12/31/94)
Ownership Category                   # of Loans   Loan Amount        % of Total
STATE-OWNED:
SOEs (Central Government)                   5          58,000          21.0%
Local Government                           23         132,100          47.8%
NONSTATE-OWNED:
Foreign Owned
Joint Venture                              10          25,130           9.1%
Private Individuals
Private Companies                           2           6,300           2.3%
Collective Ownership                       16          42,540           15.4%
ALL OTHER LOANS                             13          12,366            4.5%
TOTAL LOANS                              69         276,436         100.0%



-192 -                     ANNEX 3.15
ANNEX 3.15: REDEPLOYING SURPLUS LABOR
Introduction
1.   In the restructuring of Chongqing's enterprises, worker redundancies will result,
which creates a potential economic and social problem for the Chongqing Municipality
(CM). In order to help address this problem, measures were undertaken in February
1995, to assist the state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in redeploying their surplus workers,
including provisions for job creation, retraining, job placement and early retirement. In
addition, measures are being undertaken to expand the unemployment insurance system.
A. SURPLUS LABOR EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING GUIDING CENTER
2.    CM has decided to set up, under the Chongqing Industrial Pollution Control and
Reform Project, a Surplus Labor Employment and Training Guiding Center (Center) to
provide specialized assistance in redeploying surplus workers. The Center incorporates
both job retraining and job placement and other employment assistance services that are
tailored to the needs of surplus workers. The main goal of the Center is to support the
SOE restructuring effort through the retraining and job placement of their surplus
workers.
Overview of the Surplus Labor Employment and Training Guiding Center
3.    The Center has three objectives:
(a)   Providing redeployment assistance to surplus workers through the
Center's job placement and training activities;
(b)   Assisting SOEs in their own labor redeployment efforts through technical
assistance and other support provided by the Center; and,
(c)   Providing improved procedures, techniques, materials and other support to
CM's employment exchanges and training centers in order to strengthen
their ongoing activities.
4.    The Center's multifaceted approach will greatly assist CM in addressing the
surplus labor problems arising from its SOE restructuring effort and in strengthening its
labor market institutions in providing employment assistance to the labor force in general.
It is anticipated that the availability of improved training and employment assistance will
help reduce worker resistance to SOE restructuring and lessen social pressures. Of the
three objectives of the Center outlined above, some key aspects need to be stressed.



-193 -                     ANNEX 3.15
5.    First, in providing redeployment assistance directly to surplus workers, it is
envisioned that the Center will concentrate on serving the "at risk" workers of the SOEs
and the steel companies being restructured through the project. The unemployed from
other enterprises, such as those expected by CM to go into bankruptcy each year, would
also receive priority attention.  Similarly, the assistance provided to SOEs will
concentrate on those SOEs participating in the line of credit. The Center would provide
assistance and technical support to the SOEs in improving their own retraining and skill
upgrading efforts through the sharing of course materials and training techniques,
including short-term modular skill upgrading courses as well as assisting in the upgrading
of SOE instructional staff. In addition, the Center would provide assistance and technical
support to the SOEs in carrying out their work force redeployment efforts including
worker testing, skill assessment and job counseling, job outplacement and referral to
training.
6.    Second, the Center would (a) develop expanded and improved job skill training
courses focused on emerging job opportunities in the changing economy, particularly in
the service sector, utilize updated training equipment and improved facilities; (b) design
specialized courses and training techniques suited for adult workers; (c) develop
improved course curriculum and materials as well as training aids, including audiovisual
materials; and (d) provide for instructor training and upgrading to teach the new skills and
use of the improved training methodologies.  Computerization of the strengthened
procedures, as well as the Center's administrative and management systems, would also
be provided.
7.    Third, in the Center the basic labor exchange functions of worker testing,
assessment and counseling would be expanded and improved; job development and job
vacancy procedures would be strengthened; job matching and placement activities would
be improved as would the procedures for referral to job training and post-training
placement. A labor market information system would also be developed that would
provide increased job opportunity information and the identification of job skill content
to assist in the design of training courses and to ensure that the skills provided meet labor
market and enterprise requirements.
8.    Last, the strengthened employment assistance techniques and procedures
developed by the Center will have general systemic application and help improve the
functioning of the Chongqing labor market. Close links between the Center and the
CM's other ongoing employment assistance and training efforts would be established so
that the new techniques, procedures and other innovations would be made available to the
Labor Bureau's Employment Management Service and Training Center Administration,
and the Education Commission's vocational and technical training activities.
Specific Functions of the Center
9.    Labor Market Information. Collecting employment information and building
up a data base in order to develop specific job and training information for the general



-194 -                     ANNEX 3.15
unemployed and SOE surplus workers, to be provided through information and
counseling services. In addition, an annual plan for job training, job placement and other
employment assistance to be provided for the CM labor market will be prepared.
10.   Design of Training Courses. The development of training courses and training
materials and aids, including audiovisual, which will meet the emerging skill demands of
the labor market and be tailored to the needs of surplus workers.
11.   Conduct Training Courses. Carry out a program of modular training and
retraining courses for surplus workers using audiovisual and other training aids.
12.   Skill Certification. Develop a skill testing capacity and certification program to
ensure that the trainees achieve the level of proficiency required by the labor market.
13.   Job Placement. Provide job matching and placement for surplus workers with
priority for those who have successfully completed job retraining.
14.   Testing and Counseling. Carry out job aptitude testing and counseling and other
employment guidance for job placement and referral to skill training.
15.   Staff Training. Develop and conduct a program of staff training, including the
upgrading of training course instructors.
16.   Guidance and Assistance. Provide guidance and assistance to the district and
county-level Employment and Training Centers (ETCs) on teaching materials,
methodology and training equipment. Also provide guidance on job matching and
placement techniques and other employment assistance services to the labor exchanges.
Meeting Labor Market Demand
17.   Key to the success of the Center in redeploying surplus workers is the
development of good labor market information particularly the identification of
occupations most in demand in order to guide job training efforts. The Labor Bureau, in
determining the initial occupations to be trained for in the Center, focused on the service
sector as this area has the greatest job growth. Consideration was also given to the
modest skill and education levels of most of the redundant workers. Further, the
intention is to maximize the number of unemployed to be trained by conducting medium
length, but intensive courses that would enhance the Center's impact, and to ensure
training opportunities for female job seekers as well as for males.
18.   Based on the above strategy and job vacancy and skill demand information from
the local ETCs, training is to be provided in four occupational areas: computer operator
including computerized accounting; electrician; driver, including vehicle maintenance
skills; cooks, and waiter/waitresses.



-195-                       ANNEX3.15
19.   A major focus will be on the computer occupations, which are in very high
demand given the expanded use of computers in the new enterprises, particularly in the
service sector. Also the expansion of road transport has created a demand for qualified
drivers with vehicle maintenance skills. The rapid growth in new commercial and office
buildings has also created a need for electricians with updated skills. The popularity of
Sichuan's cuisine throughout China and the expansion of hotels and restaurants has
generated a great demand for cooks as well as skilled waiters/ waitresses.
20.   The Labor Bureau fully recognizes the need to have the Center's training continue
to focus on the jobs and skill requirements most in demand. To achieve this, several
actions are to be pursued. As part of the Center's employment services technical
assistance effort, a more structured labor market information capacity, including the use
of employer surveys, will be developed. Such labor market information and analysis will
be used to develop an annual training plan for the Center. Further, the project's
Restructuring Advisory Facility (RAF) will solicit as part of the enterprise's restructuring
and feasibility plan information on the loan applicant's work force. Information such as
anticipated redundancies, workers to be retrained and jobs to be created will be of great
value to the Labor Bureau in working out cooperative efforts, especially in assisting the
restructured enterprise in meeting its work force skill needs. Similarly, the environmental
and pollution control components of the Project are expected to create needs for workers
in this area, the Labor Bureau intends to work closely with the environmental authorities
in helping to meet the new skills that will be required.
21.   The Center, in the initial four occupations, is expected to train annually about
1,000 individuals, of whom one third will be in the computer area and another one third
as drivers, with the remaining one third roughly equally divided among the other
occupations.
Structure of the Center
22.   The Center, which incorporates the staff and facilities of an existing labor
exchange and employment training center, will have a supervisory structure that will
oversee the development of the new activities and services and manage the day-to-day
work of the training and employment service components.
23.   In addition to the executive management function, there will be an Employment
Information Office; Technical Ability Assessment Office; Training Service Office;
Program Office; and, an Office of Administration. A total of 23 additional staff will be
provided for these offices.
24.   The Center will be managed directly by the Chongqing Labor Bureau and its
development will be under the leadership of the Project Management Office (PMO) of
the Planning Commission, which is overseeing the project.



-196 -                     ANNEX 3.15
Center Facilities
25.   The Center will be established at the present site of the Jiang Bei District
Employment Training Center and Labor Exchange Office, which are adjacent to each
other. Four additional floors will be built above the labor exchange office to create
training facilities, classrooms and offices. Renovation of existing classrooms, dining
facilities and trainee housing will also be undertaken. In addition, two floors of current
space now occupied by another CM agency will be returned for Center use. The funds
for the construction and renovation of the Center will be provided by CM.
Center Budget
26.   The total Center costs to be financed by the project are $589,000, with $490,000
or 83 percent for equipment. The remaining $99,000 is for technical assistance expert
services, other support and study tours. The construction and renovation costs, which
will be provided by CM, are estimated to be Y 3.0 million. Also, CM will provide for
such ongoing costs as the additional staff's salaries and the Center's operations (see
Attachment 1)
B. UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
27.   Technical assistance financed under the project for the development of an
unemployment insurance (UI) management system is the second part of the redeploying
surplus labor. An unemployment insurance system is a key labor market mechanism in
that it provides an income safety net for the unemployed. At present, only 10,400
persons receive unemployment benefits, but it is expected that the number of recipients
will increase in the future.
28.   The unemployment insurance system now covers 80 percent of the workers in
SOEs and collectives and it is hoped to cover all workers including those in the nonstate
sectors over the next few years. In addition to the 1 percent enterprise payroll tax, each
employee also contributes 2 yuan per month to the UI fund.
29.   The unemployment insurance system is administered through the 22 districts and
counties in Chongqing. In each of the 22 local administrative areas, employers' and
employees' UI contributions are collected and payments paid to the UI benefit recipients.
The UI funds collected in the 22 local areas, however, are pooled to the CM Employment
Bureau. CM-wide data bases need to be developed that would include the unemployment
insurance premiums paid by employers; the contributions made by the employees; the UI
benefits paid to the unemployed; a register of the UI recipients including their
employment and other individual data; the local areas administrative expenses; training
subsidies and other employment program expenses; as well as information on the
enterprises job vacancies, hiring and the status of the individual's labor contract. Key
management information from the local areas data bases, particularly the financial data,
needs to be networked into a CM-wide data base. In addition to the operational and
administrative utility of the needed unemployment insurance management system, much



-197 -                     ANNEX 3.15
of the information in the data base would be useful in developing improved labor market
information.
30.   To assist the. Labor Bureau in the development of a strengthened and integrated
unemployment insurance management system, the project provides for $40,000 for a
foreign expert as well as PC and other equipment and support at the central CM
Employment Bureau. For cost details see Attachment I-Summary of Bank-Financed
Costs for Redeploying Surplus Labor.
31.  It is anticipated that the Labor Bureau in the development of its activities under
the project will consult with and draw upon related work to be carried out in Deyang,
through the Bank's Labor Market Development Project. Much of the work in this project
will be informative and helpful to key aspects of both the Center and Unemployment
Insurance Management System efforts.



-198 -                       ANNEX 3.15
ATTACHMENT 1
SUMMARY OF BANK FINANCED COSTS FOR REDEPLOYING SURPLUS
LABOR
Cost ($)
Surplus Labor Employment And Training Guiding Center
Equipment                                                             490,000
PCs and other training equipment and support material
Other Support                                                          23,000
Training staff members, miscellaneous service and general support needs
International Technical Assistance Expert                              45,000
One employment services expert for job matching and placement, testing and
counseling and development of labor market information. The consultant
expert would be engaged for three months. The unit cost per consultant
month is $15,000, which covers fee, international travel, per diem and related
cost.
Local Training Experts                                                  10,000
For course and curriculum development and the preparation of training
materials and aids
Study Tours                                                            22,000
International study tours for three persons-Director of Center, Center Train-
ing Department Director and Employment Services Manager-to observe
established programs and activities for training and employment of surplus
workers. The study tour would be up to one month and would cost $7,000
each ($3,000 travel and $4,000 per diem and related costs-$150 per/day X
26 days)
Subtotal Center Costs From WB Loan                                  590,000
Unemployment Insurance Management System
International Technical Assistance Expert                              30,000
An international UI management system expert for two months @ $15,000
unit cost as above
Equipment and Other Support                                             10,000
Sufficient PC capacity with supporting equipment suitable for UI manage-
ment system as well as specialized software, handbooks/manuals, materials/
supplies and travel of staff to assess other China Ul system management
activities
Subtotal UT Management System Costs from WB Loan                     40,000
Total WB CIPCRP Loan Cost for Redeploying Surplus Labor             630,000
Note: In addition, CM would be providing Y 3.0 million for the construction and renovation of
the Center's facilities, including construction a four-story addition for training facilities
and offices, as well as upgrading trainee housing, dining facilities and renovating existing
classrooms.



-199-                      ANNEX3.15
ATTACHMENT 2
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR REDEPLOYING SURPLUS LABOR
Background
1.    The People's Republic of China and the World Bank have developed a project for
pollution control and industrial reform in Chongqing, China. Chongqing Municipality
(CM) is located in Sichuan Province and Covers an area of 23,114 km2 and has a
population of 15.1 million. Chongqing is the most important industrial city in southwest
China and is a regional economic hub with a GDP of $6.2 billion in 1994.
2.    The industrial sector In CM employs 1.98 million workers. Of the total industrial
output value of $3.0 billion, that produced by state-owned enterprises (SOEs) accounts
for approximately 76 percent of industrial output, with the balance produced by town and
village enterprises (TVEs), collectives, joint ventures (JVs), limited-liability joint-stock
companies (JSCs), private enterprises and combinations of these entities. There are 7,519
industrial enterprises in CM, of which 263 are large and medium sized, including 245
SOEs and 18 TVEs or other nonstate forms of ownership.
3.    CM has been designated by the central government as one of the pilot cities for
economic and industrial reform and as one of the 18 cities to undergo enterprise system
reform.  CM  is also making major efforts at strengthening pollution control and
environmental protection.
4.    Given the World Bank's interest in industrial restructuring and its involvement in
several other industrial reform projects in China, CM has requested the Bank's assistance
in its reform and restructuring efforts. The Chongqing Industrial Pollution Control and
Reform Project links industrial policy reform, restructuring of industrial enterprises,
pollution control and strengthening of environmental regulatory policy.
5.   In the restructuring of Chongqing's enterprises, substantial worker redundancies
will result. It is estimated that overall there are potentially 300,000 surplus workers.
Recently 14 enterprises have gone bankrupt, another 115 enterprises are on the verge of
bankruptcy and 76 others have ceased production. These enterprises involve 52,000
employees.
6.    To support industrial policy reforrn, the project includes the establishment of a
Surplus Labor Employment and Training Guiding Center (SLETGC) to provide
specialized assistance in redeploying surplus workers. The project also provides for the
development of a strengthened management system to improve the administration and
operation of the unemployment insurance program.



- 200 -                    ANNEX 3.15
Expert Services to be Provided
7.    The services of two international experts are required. One expert would provide
assistance in the development by the SLETGC, to provide specialized employment
service procedures and techniques for the job placement of surplus workers. The second
expert would provide assistance in the development of an unemployment insurance
management system.
8.    Employment Service Expert to provide advice to the Center on basic labor
market exchange functions such as worker testing, assessment and counseling; job
development and job vacancy procedures, job matching and placement processes, as well
as procedures for referral to skill training and post-training job placement. Also, advice
would be provided on developing a labor market information program, particularly the
development of job vacancy information and support to developing the Center's annual
training plan. The advice would include assistance in the development of written
precedes, forms, records, reports, operational tools and techniques; and, the development
of an employment services manual.
9.    The employment services expert should have at least 10 years' experience in
managing employment service programs, as well as experience in providing international
technical assistance with experience in China or conditions comparable to China
desirable.
10.   The assignment would be for up to three months and the consultant's contract
should not exceed $45,000, which is to cover consultant fees, per diem and international
travel to and from China.
11.   Unemployment Insurance (UI) Management Expert to provide advice to the
Employment Bureau on a computerized UI management system, including the
development of an integrated data base for administering Ul activities in 22 local-level
administrative areas within the Chongqing Municipality (CM). Included would be
assistance in the development of data bases, which would include the premiums paid by
employers; the contributions made by employees; the UI benefits paid to the
unemployed; a register of the U! recipients including their employment and other
individual data; the local area's administrative expenses, training subsidies and other
employment program expenses; as well as information on the enterprises job vacancies,
hiring and the status of the individual's labor contract. Key management information
from the local areas data bases would be networked into a computerized CM-wide data
base. The advice would include assistance in the development of a written procedures
manual including forms, records, and management reports as well as guidance on
computerization including input to equipment requirements and operating software.
12.   The unemployment insurance management expert should have at least 10 years'
experience in managing UI programs as well as experience in providing international
technical assistance with experience in China or conditions comparable to China
desirable.



-201-                      ANNEX 3.15
13.   The assistance would be for up to two months and the consultant's contract should
not exceed $30,000, which is to cover consultant fees, per diem, and international travel
to and from China.
14.   The Labor Bureau will provide the above consultants with office space,
translation and interpreter services and local transportation.



- 202 -                     ANNEX 3.16
ANNEX 3.16: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR A STATE
ASSET OPERATING COMPANY
1.    Background. Chongqing Municipality (CM) has adopted an enterprise reform
agenda to implement reforms initiated at the national level, taking advantage of
Chongqing Municipality's (CM) status as a comprehensive experimental city under the
"10,000-1,000-I00-10" reform program. CM's agenda, to be carried out in two phases,
Phase 1 (1994-1996) and Phase 11 (1997-1998), lists eight broad objectives:
(a)   establishing a modem enterprise system, including a new system of state
asset management;
(b)   establishing an open and more competitive market system, including
commodity, financial, real estate, securities and labor markets;
(c)   transferring governmental functions from direct economic management to
regulation and indirect macroeconomic management, while ceding
economic and commercial activities to nongovernmental organizations and
professionals;
(d)   establishing a unified social security system;
(e)   deepening rural economic reform  through  (i) decentralization  of
governmental functions, (ii) encouragement of nonstate forms of economic
activity such as organizing town and village enterprises into cooperative-
shareholding companies and other forms of independent, legal persons,
and (iii) expanding individual contract rights on arable land;
(f)   encouraging new investors, including foreigners, through Joint Ventures,
BOT arrangements and management contracts, to participate in CM's
economy, including its infrastructure, power, and communications sectors
and expansion of technology zones;
(g)   accelerating education and technology reform; and
(h)   accelerating legal reform.
2.    The Modern Enterprise System.  The agenda for establishing a modem
enterprise system in the Municipality over the next three years consists of five steps:
(a)   defining and restoring property rights-a program for accounting reform,
asset valuation, and enterprise restructuring.



- 203 -                     ANNEX 3.16
(b)   establishing a new state asset management system;
(c)   organization of productive enterprises under the Company Law (1994),
with shares of certain large and medium companies offered to the public
and to staff, and the organization of town and village enterprises into
cooperative shareholding companies with clearly defined property rights;
(d)   the reduction of enterprises social burdens through splitting out of surplus
labor and social assets and functions through various means; and
(e)   encouraging proper rights transfers through several means.
The State Asset Management System in Chongqing
3.    The State Asset Management Committee (SAMC). Chongqing's organization
and reform agenda for state asset management follows the national pattern of a
multitiered structure: a State Asset Management Committee (SAMC), a State Asset
Management Bureau (SAMB) and State Asset Operating Companies (SAOC) or Group
companies (GC). The framework for CM's state asset management policy is set out in
CM  Document 170, entitled "Opinions on State Asset Management System Reform
Experiment," July 23, 1994. SAMC is headed by the Mayor and includes the heads of
CM's main governmental departments and line bureaus. SAMC represents the owners'
interests, sets policy and appoints the management of the next level. The district and
county-level governments have set up identical structures.
4.    The State Asset Management Bureau (SAMB). The policy decisions of SAMC
are carried out by its executive arm, the State Asset Management Bureau, an independent
department of CM. SAMB's broad mandate includes coordination of information
between SAMC and the enterprises, setting indicators and incentive structures for SAOC
performance, recommending management appointments and dismissals, iesolving
disputes between various SAOCs or their constituent parts, monitoring state property
rights transfers, and generally introducing systems to permit effective supervision of state
asset performance.
5.    The Supervisory Committees (SC). To implement Chapter 3 of the CM July
1994 "Opinions," SAMB intends to establish a Supervisory Committee for each major
entity reporting directly to it (this would include the State Asset Operating Companies
and the Group Companies}. According to the July 1994 Opinion, each SC is to have 15
members, at least 5 of whom have other duties. Each member serves a term of three
years. Each SC is to act on behalf of SAMB to inspect the enterprises to ascertain their
implementation of the performance indicators and other relevant laws, regulations and
CM Documents. (SC, being constituted by SAMB, is not the Supervisory Board as
required by the Company Law. The latter is intended to be a part of the internal structure
of the corporation while the former is a separate control imposed by the owner from
outside the corporate structure).



- 204 -                     ANNEX 3.16
6.    The State Asset Operating Companies (SAOC) and Group Companies (GC).
According to CM 1994 "Opinions," SAOCs in CM are entities established under the
Company Law entrusted with the management of state assets, with SAMB as founder on
behalf of the state. SAOCs are to be organized through conversion of line bureaus into
companies under the Company Law.  (The bureaus to be converted are mostly
manufacturing, tradables and services, but not health, infrastructure, grain, etc.)
Generally, these SAOCs are intended to be organized as LLCs. They will not be
operating companies but more closely resemble holding companies. A few, very large
enterprises will be designated GCs and act as SAOCs being "entrusted" with the
management of shares (if corporatized) or assets of smaller enterprises and companies. A
few existing investment companies will also be "entrusted" with shares or assets of
companies and enterprises.
7.    Employees and management of SAOCs and GCs, including members of their
Boards of Directors cannot be civil servants.  Ways and means to structure and
implement performance-based incentives for SAOC and GC management are currently
under consideration by CM.
8.    Two SAOCs currently exist as wholly state owned companies. They are Huamao
State Asset Operating Company (commercial and service enterprises) and Huajin State
Asset Operating Company (machine tools). Huajin differs significantly from Huamao.
Unlike Huamao, which is diversified in its subsidiaries, activities and ownership, Huajin
is the machine tool line bureau reformed into an SAOC.
9.    Three GCs have been approved to act as SAOCs: China Silian Instrument Group,
Huaxi Packing Group and the Chongqing Iron and Steel Company (Group) Limited.
Two others, Quinling Auto Group and the Chongqing Special Steel Company (Group)
Limited are in the process of approval.
An Innovative SAOC
10.   To advance its reform efforts, CM has decided to create a new, model industrial
SAOC that is innovative in its design, structure, operation and management. Specifically,
CM intends to establish, with international and local expertise, a cross-sectoral SAOC
[formed as a limited liability shareholding company (LLSC) per Chapter III of the
Company Law] as a modem enterprise. This new SAOC would manage the state's assets
in three or four different, but economically related industrial sectors. This would serve to
intensify the formation of a "modem enterprise system," as articulated in the Decision of
the Fourteenth CPC Third Plenum in November 1993, and the development of CM's
capital market.
11.   Objectives. The assistance being sought by CM is described in these Terms of
Reference (TOR) would provide best international practice and advice as to corporate
organizational functional and financial structures; methods for share (or portfolio)
management; and investment and dividend policy. At the same time, the advice would be



- 205 -                     ANNEX 3.16
based on Chinese national and CM particular reforms aimed at the establishment of a
modem enterprise system.
12.   Mode of Assistance.  A team of three internationally experienced experts/
scholars drawn from an international firm (the Consultants) would provide training and
advice based on theory and practice from international experience as well as other areas
in China. Assistance would be provided in three stages: (a) on-site visit in CM (for two
weeks) to disseminate international and other China practices and to collect information
about the sectors/enterprises to be included in the model SAOC, including a seminar;
(b) two weeks of consultant services (performed at their home base of operations) for
preparation of a draft report, including recommendations for structuring and operating the
pilot SAOC, to be sent to CM; and (c) return to CM (for two weeks) to finalize the report
and assist in the implementation of its recommendations through a seminar. A modest
amount of follow-on advice will be provided as may be requested by SAMB, the extent
of such additional advice and remuneration for it, to be agreed in advance, subject to the
budget limits set forth below.
13.   In addition to the work of the international firm, local experts (individuals, not
firms) drawn from a cross-section of the CM community, such as scholars, local auditors,
and enterprise managers, would participate in the seminars and also provide advice and
inputs into the design of the model SAOC. These local experts would be selected
pursuant to separate Terms of Reference and contract terms. The Consultant team and the
local experts would coordinate and cooperate to the fullest extent feasible.
14.   Qualifications, Counterpart and Proposed Budget.  The Consultant tearn
would consist of three persons. The tean as a whole would have extensive experience in
modem corporate organization, management consulting, management information
systems and corporate finance. One would be senior, with acknowledged international
expertise, while the other two would have at least 10 years' experience, including
experience in China. Familiarity with the Chinese language would be helpful, while at
least one team member should be fully experienced with China's enterprise reform
policies and progress. The counterpart would be SAMB. A Project Monitoring Office
has been established in Chongqing to facilitate the Project. The budget to implement
these TOR for the international Consultant is not to exceed $75,000, inclusive all
Consultants' fees, costs, and expenses, including travel and subsistence. There will be a
separate, additional budget and contracts between CM and the local experts, not to exceed
$25,000 equivalent. Finally, there will be a separate amount not to exceed $20,000 for
foreign study tours by Chongqing's SAMB, under the supervision and coordination of the
international consultant and local experts. These costs are to be financed under the
project.



-206 -                                                                                  ANNEX 3.17
ANNEX 3.17: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
.        ............ .................................................  .       ........................................ ......................................
z _ e ......~~~............................................................................................................................................. ...................
-c8.                     _... _............    ...    ..........................  .......  ........    .........................................    ....    ..    ...    ..........
O....
.             .                 .         .              .           .             .             .          .          .          .          .          .              ,
& 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~g
~~~~~~~~~   &~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



-207 -                                                                                                                       ANNEX 3.17
.       . . . . .  .  .  .   .  . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .. .. . .  . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .    . .   .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
.............  . _._._............................................  ,__._,, ...............  _. ........  . .............................................
39i  :                                                                                                            i                                                                      ;2
. .                                                                                                .                                                    C -. I !    i,
_                                                             - |                                   - |    N |                                                             |;                                   . |    F 1                                                                    F | 



.I         .A .       -     i     l   tl   a1-  "-.                  - I - 
U    :    U,   ii i,                S i     ;    ;U, 
-I  -  a  -4  vi  
Ll-S~~~~~~~~~ -3N             - 8Z 
.-         g                a    i      -i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
L I'E X3NNI                                                             I          'I



-209 -                        ANNEX 3.17
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .     .....  ......  ............................................. ..............................
Z........
3  _ _ &                                                               l
I  r.   J a      i                                    i
G  a                                        
I _.,w    nw                      ll t~       
X & rE......       
L  *----a----------------------------...................-______ .___
_  ag 
!& 



-210 -                                      ANNEX 3.17
05
z 0---Az---.I* ------ 'l   
X............................................................................................................................................. ...........................................................
0    &
Su           : 8
X A SSS
el.J                                                    g     I      I      P -~          i 



-211-                            ANNEX 3.17
... ..... .. ... ...... .......  ........ ........    .. ...... ...    ...........    . ....  .... ..... ...  .......... ... ..... .... .. ....... .
. e                                              .....  .   j..   S...
z    rSe,,                          
9   6  &
1                                  1111111  _.i_.. ...
_ _ -5 _ __ _ _ _ _ k __ _n                                                _
. . . . . . . . .  .    '-.      . . ..:.S.8.         . .  . . . . .



_P                                   C
c  LI     e)   I )
j~~~~~~~~~~~~i                           .          - '' .10m
i     . ..... .. .. .. . .. .. ............... .. . . .. . .. .. .... ..- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - . .. .. .. . . .. .. . ...-.. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. . . . . . . . .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. . . . . .. .. .
! i'1    I
L I' X3NLKV                          Z



-213 -                      ANNEX 4.1
ANNEX 4.1: SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Bank/IDA                                                       Bank
fiscal year    Semester      Cumulative         Project       Profile da
4$Smillion)_ ...... (K
1997 &b
First               9.5           9.5               5.9           3.0
Second             16.5          26.0              15.3          10.0
1998
First              20.0          46.0             27.0           24.0
Second            22.0           68.0             39.8           36.0
1999
First             24.0           92.0             54.1           50.0
Second            22.5           114.5            64.4           60.0
2000
First              18.0          132.5            77.9           71.0
Second             15.0         147.5             86.8           84.0
2001
First               8.5          156.0             91.8          90.0
Second              6.5          162.5             95.6          94.0
2002
First               5.0          167.5             98.5          96.0
Second              2.5          170.0            100.0         100.0
la Disbursement profile for China (composite for urban and industrial sectors).
Lb Includes initial Special Account disbursement of $1O million.



-214 -                               ANNEX 4.2
ANNEX 4.2: BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY
ACTIVITIES
Approximate                                                 Expected Skill          Staff inputs
Dates                     Activity                       Requirements           (Staff-Weeks)
10696      Mission to Initiate Implementation    Environment/Resettlement             8
and Supervision                       Engineering
Financial Analysis
Economics
03/97      SUPERVISION MISSION                    Environment/Resettlement            6
Review Reform Program                 Procurement
Financial Analysis
Economics
10197      SUPERVISION MISSION                   Environment/Resettlement             6
Status of the Project                 Engineering
Financial Analysis
05/97      SUPERVISION MISSION                    Engineering                         6
Review Reform Program                 Financial Analysis
Economics
11/98      SUPERVISION MISSION                   Environment/Resettlement             6
Status of the Project                 Procurement
Financial Analysis
05/99      SUPERVISION MISSION                    Environment/Resettlement            10
Mid-Term Review                       Engineering
Procurement
Financial Analysis
Economics
11/99      SUPERVISION MISSION                   Environment                          5
Status of the Project                  Financial Analysis
0/00      SUPERVtSION MISSION                    Environment                         5
Review Reform Program                  Engineering
Economics
11/00      SUPERVISION MISSION                    Environment                         5
Status of the Project                  Financial Analysis
05/01      SUPERVISION MISSION                    Environment                          5
Review Reform Program                  Engineering
Financial Analysis
Economics
11/01      SUPERVISION MISSION                    Environment                         5
Status of the Project                  Financial Analysis
Economics
05/02      SUPERVISION MISSION                    Environment                          5
Status of Project Completion and       Financial Analysis
compliance with covenants              Economics
11/02      SUPERVISION MISSION                    Environment/Resettlement            8
Preparation of ICR                     Engineering
Financial Analysis
Economics
Note: Supervision mission will be coordinated with supervision of other EA2EM projects



-215 -                     ANNEX 4.3
ANNEX 4.3: SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE
PROJECT FILE
1. Assessment of the Regulatory Framework for Industrial Pollution Control in
Chongqing. Resources for the Future. Washington, D.C. October, 1995.
2. Environmental Control Programn for Chongqing Special Steel Company (Group)
Limited. USX Engineers and Consultants, Inc. Pittsburgh, and Chongqing Iron and
Steel Design Institute, Chongqing. October 1995.
3. Environmental Control Program for the Zhongxing Industry and Commerce
Company. USX Engineering Consultants, Inc., Pittsburgh, and Chongqing Iron and
Steel Design Institute, Chongqing. October 1995.
4. Improving Air Quality Management in Chongqing.   Draft Final Report.
Enviromnental Resources Management. London. May 1995.
5. Resettlement Action Plan for the Chongqing Special Steel Company (Group)
Limited. October 1995.
6. Restructuring Advisory Facility. Various reports. Knight Wendling Consulting, Ltd.,
Adderbury, UK
7. Policy Documents produced by the Chongqing Municipal Government. 1992-1995.
8. "Acid Rain in Southwestern China," by D. Zhao, J. Xiong, Y. Xu and W. H. Chan.
Atmospheric Environment, Vol. 22, 1988. UK.
9. Contract for Consultants' Services between Chongqing Municipal Planning
Commission and Knight Wendling Consulting Ltd. June 28, 1995.
10. Chongqing Industrial Reform, Water Quality Management. Draft Final Report.
Binnie & Partners Consulting Engineers. May 1995.
11. Financial and Economic Projections for Chongqing Special Steel Company (Group)
Limited.
12. Financial and Economic Projections for Chongqing Iron and Steel Company (Group)
Limited.






RUSSIAN       .      J                         .r.\           1                      l
IrK                                          FEDERATION
KAZAKSTAN                                 '-3-A                                                                                                .
AK5TAN ,)>                         -  ) ''        1<            ,         _ f HEILONGJIANG   ) ,
\,.,,, -> <    r -    zUlaanbaatar t'                                                                                                       /
UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                                                            sWMONGOLIA  S 3            4
~JS\ er-.          czX    )Iiooolmog Q                (                                                            2                   Chongchungh-
*;%v   Bishkek                                                                                                          NE                  ' Dohnorwho-'  NJILIN
KYREB                                                                                                        MOGOurnqi    L   5P( 
OkREUUC                 A                                                                               7                               Shongk,-o \  ,  _ L%-- J    Seo of     JAPAN,
TAJIKISTAN                         XINJIANG                                                                                        L SI-li  [IAONING               JaFpan
XINJIANG                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~BEIJING                                             6  / -uo.'EM4E
Hobhot      SH*/                            W~
Beijing, Tog       <p/   Pycrtna
-rt~TANJINS7     z   1-'Soul'-
HEBEI'E.O'-
Yinch~~~T.r Z[)                4                  e        3J     f
GANSU         *             oyo  ~              <       3R fa           KEOPREA
HANXI                   ~~~~~~Seai
(' xi;    ,<INGXIA ST NY *u "s"OGs*                                   /-           
QINGHAI      h                        Ton'              /i,
thte nds. xO6ldo,fotno s \                                                                                   o Dgo 1 
Th.W    n     I,shnon -yi.wg'ot                                                                                HENAN            JIANGS           East China
Won d Rky sp. nony buden*ny,ot                                                                  SHAANXI                    AS
>   XIZANG                                                                                r i OsANGHAJ SHI
w                                N~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                    SCJA Chg.HUBEI Wohn 
K \                   -"ijoo                  -    SICHI)AN @Chnngdu         jS                         ZHEJIANG
ID                        NEPAIS,             7                                               _                                Nonchoog
Chong.ho
S
CHINA                                    1                    G                 HUNAN    JIANGXI                                         PACIFIC
Guiy..ge  ~       HootoN        FUJIAN                               OCEAN
CHONGQING INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION  I                                                           GUIZHOU F
CONTROL AND REFORM PROJECT                                          YUNNAN Kunming
-oJ 1- 060dou   GUANGDONG  0
GUAN'G"XI            H1,oop    o
_  _   PROJET CffY                                                     0 N..- ..X   Goonguhoc E
SELECTED TtYflt'IS AJOO crors  .     ~         Noonng    ~          HONG KONG, U.K.         .a                          a
tjELECTEO lN!jS AND CMES    Z                      `   .VIET NAM'                            MACAO,POfl         I                  _ I   I   I   I 
SD @PINCE CAPPTALS                                                                o 1
rCv1NCE AOUN$a-ES               jPEOPLE0 South Chna
. _.-  ItJTTh0MtEcsuNDOWS                     n rIL40j PEOPLRE'tS)                                     Sea t        P IPPI ES ea
)NTFWW)0" BO~DARIEAILAI4BDEM. REPS~                              AINAr-
THA                -                 i                                                                      tt     co
_______________________________________________                                                                                              U,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13









IMAGING
Report No-       15387 CHA
Type: SAR



