Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4045 CHA
Financial Intermediaries
Project Agreement
(Chongqing Industrial Pollution
Control and Reform Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA
and
CHINA MERCHANTS BANK
and
EVERBRIGHT BANK OF CHINA
Dated December 4, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4045 CHA
FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  December 4, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA, CHINA 
MERCHANTS BANK and EVERBRIGHT BANK OF CHINA (the Financial Intermediaries).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount equal to one hundred seventy million dollars ($170,000,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition 
that the Financial Intermediaries agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank 
as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between Chongqing and 
the Financial Intermediaries (Financial Intermediary Subsidiary Loan Agreements), a 
portion of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
relent to the Financial Intermediaries on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Financial Intermediary Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Financial Intermediaries, in consideration of the Bank's entering 
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project; Management and 
Operations of the Financial Intermediaries
Section 2.01. Each Financial Intermediary declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out its Respective Parts of the Project and conduct its 
operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and practices, 
with qualified management and personnel, and in accordance with: (i) for ABC, the ABC 
Charter; (ii) for CMB, the CMB Charter; and (iii) for EBBC, the EBBC Charter.
Section 2.02. Each Financial Intermediary shall: (a) undertakes that, unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans shall be made in accordance with the procedures 
and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project in such manner 
as to:
(i)
protect the interests of the Bank and of such Financial 
Intermediary;
(ii)
comply with its obligations under this Agreement and its 
respective Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement; and
(iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project; and
(c)
appraise Investment Projects and supervise, monitor and report on the 
carrying out by Investment Enterprises of Investment Projects, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Each Financial Intermediary shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Financial 
Intermediaries Project Agreement and its Respective Parts of the Project.
Section 2.04. Each Financial Intermediary shall duly perform all its obligations 
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no Financial Intermediary shall take or concur in any action which would have 
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving such Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. Each Financial Intermediary shall: (a) at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of its Respective Part of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under its 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Loan; and
(b)
promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens 
to interfere with the progress of its Respective Part of the Project, the 
Page  3
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by such Financial 
Intermediary of its obligations under this Agreement and under its respective 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. If any Financial Intermediary has, establishes or acquires any 
Subsidiary, such Financial Intermediary shall cause any such Subsidiary to which the 
obligations of such Financial Intermediary under this Agreement relate to observe and 
perform such obligations as though such obligations were binding upon such Subsidiary.
Section 2.07. Each Financial Intermediary shall:(a) not later than December 31, 
1996, furnish to the Bank a time-bound training program acceptable to the Bank for the 
carrying out of Part D.2 of the Project by said Financial Intermediary; and
(b)
thereafter implement such training program in accordance with its terms. 
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Each Financial Intermediary shall: (a) maintain procedures and 
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of its Respective Parts of the 
Project and of each Investment Project for which it has made a Sub-loan (including its 
cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial 
condition of such Financial Intermediary.
(b)
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year:
(A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year 
as so 
audited; and
(B)
the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and 
in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements, as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Each Financial Intermediary shall take such steps satisfactory to 
the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from 
changes in the rates of exchange between the various currencies (including Renminbi) 
used in its operations.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the 
Financial Intermediaries thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly 
notify each Financial Intermediary thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
Page  4
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For ABC:
Agricultural Bank of China
Chongqing Branch
103 Xing Hua Road
Chongqing
People's Republic of China 630011
Telex:
62286 ABCQ CN
For CMB:
China Merchants Bank
5/F, Shenfang Bld. No. 3, Huaqiang Beilu
Shenzhen
People's Republic of China
Telex:
420034 CMBHO CN; or
420035 CMBHO CN
For EBBC:
Everbright Bank of China
Chongqing Branch
No. 2 Linjiang Road, Yuzhong District
Chongqing
People's Republic of China 630010
Telex:
62423 EBCQ CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of a Financial 
Intermediary may be taken or executed by: for ABC and EBBC, their respective 
President; and for CMB, its General Manager; or such other person or persons as such 
Page  5
President or General Manager shall designate in writing, and each Financial 
Intermediary shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Marianne Haug
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA
CHINA MERCHANTS BANK
EVERBRIGHT BANK OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans 
A.
Principal Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans:
1.
(a)
Sub-loans shall be made to Investment Enterprises for Investment Projects 
concerning the restructuring of productive facilities and the cleaning up of 
pollution.  The proceeds of the Sub-loans shall be used to procure goods and services 
required for the carrying out of the Investment Projects.
(b)
The principal amount of each Sub-loan financed:
(i)
shall be denominated and repaid in dollars, and be equal to the 
amount of the 
Loan withdrawn on account of the cost of goods 
and services required for the 
Subproject for which said 
Sub-loan has been made and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Loan; and
(ii)
shall be repaid over a period not exceeding twelve (12) years, 
inclusive of a 
grace period not exceeding five (5) years.
(c)
Each Sub-loan shall be charged interest on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate at least equal to the sum of: 
(i) the rate of interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 
2.05 of the Loan Agreement plus; (ii) 2%.
Page  6
(d)
Each Sub-loan shall be charged on the principal amount thereof not 
withdrawn from time to time a commitment charge at a rate equal to three-fourths of 
one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
2.
Each Sub-loan for an Investment Project shall be made only to an Investment 
Enterprise which shall have established to the satisfaction of the Financial 
Intermediary making said Sub-loan, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in 
accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, that:
(a)
the Investment Enterprise has been established as a limited liability 
company or a limited liability shareholding company under the Company Law of the 
Borrower, or has been otherwise established as a legal entity in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank;
(b)
the Investment Enterprise has adopted accounting standards acceptable to 
the Bank and has had its financial statements of its fiscal year preceding the fiscal 
year in which it applied for a Sub-loan audited by independent auditors;
(c)
the Investment Enterprise is creditworthy and has a sound financial 
position and prospects and will be in a position to service its debt under the 
Sub-loan;
(d)
an environmental assessment of the Investment Project has been carried 
out by Chongqing’s Environmental Protection Bureau, and the Investment Enterprise has, 
on the basis of such assessment, undertaken to carry out an environmental action plan 
to remedy any negative impact of the Investment Project on the environment, approved 
by the Chongqing environmental protection bureau;
(e)
the proposed Investment Project is technically, commercially and 
financially viable, and is estimated to have a financial and economic rate of return 
of not less than 11%;
(f)
the Investment Enterprise will be able to finance at least 25 percent of 
the proposed Investment Project's total investment costs from its own resources; and
(g)
for each Sub-project involving the involuntary resettlement of any 
persons in connection therewith, a resettlement action plan has been prepared in 
consultation with the affected persons on the basis of policies, planning principles 
and institutional arrangements acceptable to the Bank, designed to improve the living 
standards of the said persons, including operational procedures adequate to enable the 
monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the said resettlement plan.
3.
The amount of any one Sub-loan and the aggregate amount of all Sub-loans: (i) to 
a single Investment Enterprise shall not exceed the equivalent of $12,000,000; (ii) to 
related companies shall not exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000; and (iii) for single 
Investment Projects shall not exceed 75% of the total estimated cost of said 
Investment Project net of taxes.  For purposes of this paragraph, the term “related 
companies” shall mean a group of enterprises consisting of an enterprise (the Parent) 
and each enterprise of which 50% or more of the outstanding voting stock or other 
proprietary interest is owned or effectively controlled by the Parent.
4.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to 
the date on which the Bank shall have received the application and information 
required under paragraph 5 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been a free-limit 
Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on 
which the Bank shall have received the request and information required under 
paragraph 5 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan.  For the 
purposes of the Loan Agreement and this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a 
Sub-loan (other than the first two Sub-loans made by each Financial Intermediary) for 
Page  7
an Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
which shall not exceed the sum of $5,000,000 equivalent in the case of a Sub-loan made 
by ABC and $3,500,000 equivalent in the case of a Sub-loan made by EBBC or CMB, when 
added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan or of any other loan, provided for in any outstanding loan 
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower entered into before the date of this 
Agreement, the proceeds of which have been or are being used for financing goods and 
services directly and materially related to such Investment Project, the foregoing 
amounts being subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
5.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank 
for approval, a Financial Intermediary shall furnish to the Bank an application, in 
form satisfactory to the Bank, together with:
(i)
a description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the 
Investment 
Project, including a description of the expenditures 
proposed to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(ii)
the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the 
schedule of 
amortization of the Sub-loan; and
(iii)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request for authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan Account 
in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain:
(i)
a summary description of the Investment Enterprise and the 
Investment Project, 
including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Loan; and
(ii)
the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule 
of amortization 
therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of sub\1e
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or before 
June 30, 2001.
6.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Financial Intermediary shall 
obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate 
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and such Financial 
Intermediary, including the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records 
and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or such Financial Intermediary 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
Page  8
operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to 
be derived from the Investment Project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with such Financial Intermediary.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions 
of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.  
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $35,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  9
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to:
(a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; or
(b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall 
not apply to;
(i)
the terms of reference for such contracts;
(ii)
single-source selection of consulting firms;
(iii)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Bank;
(iv)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the 
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or 
above; or
(v)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising 
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
