Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4045 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Chongqing Industrial Pollution Control and Reform Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 4, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4045 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  December 4, 1996, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Parts A and D (1) of the Project will be carried out by Chongqing 
Municipality (Chongqing) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Chongqing the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in this Agreement;
(C)
Part B (1) of the Project will be carried out by Chongqing Special Steel 
Company (Group) Limited (CSSC) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, Chongqing will make available to CSSC a portion of the proceeds of the 
Loan as provided in this Agreement;
(D)
Part B (2) of the Project will be carried out by Chongqing Iron and Steel 
Company (Group) Limited (CISGC) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, Chongqing will make available to CISGC a portion of the proceeds of the 
Loan as provided in this Agreement;
(E)
Parts C and D (2) of the Project will be carried out by Agricultural Bank 
of China (ABC), Everbright Bank of China (EBBC) and China Merchants Bank (CMB) 
(collectively, the Financial Intermediaries) with the Borrower's assistance and, as 
part of such assistance, Chongqing will make available to the Financial Intermediaries 
a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; 
Page  2
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Chongqing Project Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Bank and Chongqing, the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Bank and the Financial Intermediaries, and the Steel Companies 
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the Steel Companies;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 with the 
following modification (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement, namely, the words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the 
Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
canceled" set forth at the end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"or (f) by the date specified in Part A.5(c) of Schedule 1 to the 
Financial Intermediaries 
Project Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any portion 
of the Loan: (i) have received no 
applications or requests under Part 
A.5(a) or (b) of said Schedule; or (ii) have denied any such 
applications or 
requests, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the 
Financial Intermediaries to submit such applications or requests of the Borrower to 
make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with 
respect to such amount or portion of 
the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such 
amount or portion of the Loan shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"ABC" means the Agricultural Bank of China, established and operating as 
a bank under the laws of the Borrower and in accordance with the ABC Charter.
(b)
"ABC Charter" means the Circular of the Borrower’s State Council on the 
Restoration of the Agricultural Bank of China, dated February 23, 1979 (State Council 
Document No. (1979) 56) as such circular may be replaced in accordance with the 
provisions of the Banking Law of the Borrower with a charter acceptable to the Bank.
(c)
“Category" means a withdrawal category set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(d)
"Chongqing" means Chongqing Municipality, within the Borrower's Province 
of Sichuan.
(e)
“Chongqing Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and 
Chongqing of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Chongqing Project 
Agreement.
(f)
“CISGC" means the Chongqing Iron and Steel Group Company (Group) Limited, 
a limited liability company established and operating under the laws of the Borrower 
and the CISGC Charter.
(g)
"CISGC Charter" means the Charter of CISGC, dated June 27, 1995.
(h)
“CISGC EIA” means the environmental impact assessment for Part B (2) of 
the Project dated September 1995, approved by the Borrower’s National Environmental 
Protection Agency on October 24, 1995 and submitted to the Bank under cover of a 
letter dated October 31, 1995, and includes environmental mitigation measures as well 
as administrative and monitoring arrangements ensuring the implementation of said 
measures for said Part of the Project.
Page  3
(i)
“CISGC Feasibility Document” means the documents regarding the 
feasibility of the physical relocation and restructuring of CISGC production 
facilities, as referred to in a letter from CISGC to the Bank dated April 26, 1996.
(j)
"CMB" means China Merchants Bank, established and operating as a 
commercial bank under the laws of the Borrower and in accordance with CMB Charter.
(k)
"CMB Charter" means the Articles of Association of CMB, approved by the 
People's Bank of China in Document No. 12, 1989.
(l)
"CSSC" means the Chongqing Special Steel Company (Group) Limited, a 
limited liability company established and operating under the laws of the Borrower and 
the CSSC Charter.
(m)
"CSSC Charter" means the Articles of CSSC, dated March 20, 1996.
(n)
“CSSC EIA” means the environmental impact assessment for Part B (1) of 
the Project dated September 1995, approved by the Borrower’s National Environmental 
Protection Agency on October 15, 1995 and submitted to the Bank under cover of a 
letter dated November 5, 1995, and includes environmental mitigation measures as well 
as administrative and monitoring arrangements ensuring the implementation of said 
measures for said Part of the Project.
(o)
“CSSC Feasibility Document” means the documents regarding the feasibility 
of the physical relocation and restructuring of CSSC production facilities as referred 
to in a letter from CSSC to the Bank dated April 26, 1996. \0c
(p)
"CSSC RAP" 
dated October 1995 means the land acquisition, removal and resettlement action plan 
for Part B (1) of the Project, dated December 1995 furnished to the Bank under cover 
of a letter dated October 26, 1995, and includes procedures governing land 
acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as reporting and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure compliance with the said plan, for said Part of the Project.
(q)
"EBBC" means Everbright Bank of China, established and operating as a 
commercial bank under the laws of the Borrower and in accordance with the EBBC 
Charter.
(r)
"EBBC Charter" means the Articles of Association of EBBC, approved by 
People’s Bank of China on February 17, 1994.
(s)
“Environmental Impact Assessments”, means collectively the CSSC EIA, the 
CISGC EIA and the Sub-project EIAs (as hereinafter defined);
(t)
"Financial Intermediaries" means, collectively, ABC, EBBC and CMB, and 
"Financial Intermediary" means any of the Financial Intermediaries.
(u)
"Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement" means the agreement between 
the Bank and ABC, CMB and EBBC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement.
(v)
"Financial Intermediary Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements 
to be entered into between Chongqing and each of ABC, CMB and EBBC pursuant to Section 
2.02 (b) of the Chongqing Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Financial Intermediary Subsidiary 
Loan Agreements; “Financial Intermediary Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means any of the 
Financial Intermediary Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and “Financial Intermediary 
Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided under a Financial Intermediary Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement.
(w)
"foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of the 
Borrower.
(x)
"free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as 
a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Part A 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to the 
Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement.
Page  4
(y)
"Investment Enterprise" means an SOE or NSOE (as hereinafter defined) to 
which a Financial Intermediary proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan.
(z)
"Investment Project" means a specific development project to be carried 
out by an Investment Enterprise under Part C of the Project utilizing the proceeds of 
a Sub-loan.
(aa)
“NSOE” means any legal entity duly established and operating under the 
laws of the Borrower which is not an SOE.
(bb)
"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower.
(cc)
“Resettlement Action Plans” means, collectively, the CSSC RAP and the 
Sub-project RAPs.
(dd)
“Respective Part of the Project” means: for Chongqing, Parts A and D (1) 
of the Project; for CISGC, Part B (2) of the Project; for CSSC, Part B (1) of the 
Project; for the Financial Intermediaries, Parts C and D (2) of the Project.
(ee)
“SOE” means any legal entity duly established and operating under the 
laws of the Borrower of which at least 51% of its capital is under ownership by the 
whole people or by one or more legal entities of which at least 51% of said legal 
entity’s capital is under ownership by the whole people.
(ff)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(gg)
“Steel Companies" means, collectively, CSSC and CISGC, and "Steel 
Company" means any of the Steel Companies.
(hh)
"Steel Companies Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank 
and CSSC and CISGC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Steel 
Companies Project Agreement.
(ii)
"Steel Company Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be 
entered into between Chongqing and each of the Steel Companies pursuant to Section 
2.02 (a) of the Chongqing Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Steel Company Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; “Steel Company Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means either of the Steel Company 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and “Steel Company Subsidiary Loan” means the loan 
provided under a Steel Company Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(jj)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Financial 
Intermediary out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for an 
Investment Project.
(kk)
“Sub-project EIA” means any environmental action plan prepared pursuant 
to Part A 2 (d) of Schedule 1 to the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement, and 
"Sub-project EIAs" means, collectively, all Sub-project EIAs.
(ll)
“Sub-project RAP” means any resettlement action plan prepared pursuant to 
Part A 2 (h) of Schedule 1 to the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement, and 
"Sub-project RAPs" means, collectively, all Sub-project RAPs.
(mm)
"Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the outstanding 
voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively controlled by a 
Financial Intermediary or by any one or more Subsidiaries of said Financial 
Intermediary or by said Financial Intermediary and any one or more of its 
Subsidiaries.
(nn)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means, collectively, the Steel Company 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and the Financial Intermediaries Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements; "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any one of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements; and “Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided under a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement.
Page  5
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred seventy million dollars ($170,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:
(i)
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for Parts A, B and D of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the 
Loan;
(ii)
amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by a 
Financial 
Intermediary on account of withdrawals made by 
an Investment Enterprise under 
a Sub-loan (under Part C of the 
Project) to meet the reasonable cost of goods 
and services 
required for the Investment Project in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and 
(iii)
interest and other charges on the Steel Company Subsidiary Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial 
period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars 
for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or 
Page  6
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project; 
Use of the Proceeds of the Loan
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
the Borrower shall cause Chongqing, the Steel Companies and the Financial 
Intermediaries to perform all their respective obligations set forth in the Chongqing 
Project Agreement, the Steel Companies Project Agreement and the Financial 
Intermediaries Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable Chongqing, the Steel Companies and the Financial 
Intermediaries to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to Chongqing the proceeds of the Loan 
on the following principal terms:
(i)
the principal amount so made available to Chongqing shall be 
denominated and 
repaid in dollars;
(ii)
the Borrower shall recover such principal amount over a period of 
twenty 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five 
years;
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge interest on such principal amount 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate 
equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to 
time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan 
Agreement; and
(iv)
the Borrower shall charge a commitment charge on such principal 
amount not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to 
three-fourths of one percent 
(3/4 of 1%) per annum.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Chongqing Project Agreement (for Parts A and D (1) of the Project), Schedule 1 to the 
Page  7
Steel Companies Project Agreement (for Part B of the Project) and Schedule 2 to the 
Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement (for Parts C and D (2) of the Project).
Section 3.03.(a) The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively):
(i)
in respect of Parts A and D (1) of the Project shall be carried 
out by 
Chongqing pursuant to Section 2.04 of the 
Chongqing Project Agreement;
(ii)
in respect of Part B of the Project shall be carried out by the 
Steel 
Companies pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Steel 
Companies Project Agreement; 
and
(iii)
in respect of Parts C and D (2) of the Project shall be carried 
out by the 
Financial Intermediaries pursuant to Section 
2.03 of the Financial 
Intermediaries Project 
Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan 
for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures 
are retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
Page  8
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Chongqing, either Steel Company or any Financial Intermediary shall have 
failed to perform any of its obligations under the Chongqing Project Agreement, Steel 
Companies Project Agreement, or Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement, 
respectively.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Chongqing, either Steel Company or any Financial Intermediary will be able to 
perform its obligations under the Chongqing Project Agreement, Steel Companies Project 
Agreement or Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement, respectively.
(c)
The ABC Charter, CISGC Charter, CMB Charter, CSSC Charter or EBBC Charter 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition of either Steel 
Company, or any Financial Intermediary or its ability to carry out any of its 
respective obligations under the Steel Companies Project Agreement or the Financial 
Intermediaries Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of either Steel Company or any 
Financial Intermediary or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
Chongqing has adopted a plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
implementation of a sulfur dioxide levy system; and 
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of each of 
each of the parties thereto.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Chongqing Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Chongqing and is legally binding upon Chongqing in accordance with its terms;
Page  9
(b)
that the Steel Companies Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by each Steel Company and is legally binding upon each Steel Company in 
accordance with its terms;
(c)
that the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by each Financial Intermediary and is legally binding upon each 
Financial Intermediary in accordance with its terms; and
(d)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 
by each of the parties thereto and are legally binding upon said parties, in 
accordance with their respective terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN 
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
Page  10
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Marianne Haug
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
  % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)      
to be Financed
(1)
Goods:
(a)
under Part B (1)
55,600,000
)
100% of foreign 
of the Project
)
expenditures, 100% 
of
)
local expenditures 
)
(ex-factory cost) 
and
(b)
under Part B (2)
38,000,000
)
75% of local
of the Project
)
expenditures for 
other
)
items procured 
locally
)
(c)
under Part D
 5,000,000
)
of the Project
(2)
Sub-loans:
(a)
to SOEs
45,000,000
)
100% of amounts 
)
paid 
by Financial
(b)
to NSOEs
 5,000,000
)
Intermediary
(3)
Interest and other
)
Amounts capitalized
charges on the Steel
)
pursuant to 
Section
Company Subsidiary
)
2.02 (a) (v) of the
Loans accrued on or
)
Chongqing Project
before June 30, 2001:
)
Agreement
)
(a)
for CSSC
 6,400,000
)
)
(b)
for CISGC
 4,000,000
)
(4)
Consultants' services
 1,000,000
100% 
and training under
Parts A, B and D of
the Project
Page  11
(5)
Unallocated
10,000,000
      ___________
TOTAL
      170,000,000
      ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
a Sub\1eloan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to 
the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement;
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Categories 1 (a) and 3 (a), until  
CSSC shall have established, in accordance with Section 2.01 (b) of the Steel 
Companies Project Agreement, that an aggregate amount equivalent to $53,733,400 is 
available to CSSC as counterpart financing for the implementation of Part B.1 of the 
Project; and
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(a)
under contracts for goods: (i) for Part D of the Project not exceeding 
$200,000 equivalent;and (ii) for Part B of the Project not exceeding $500,000 
equivalent;
(b)
under contracts with consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 and with 
individual consultants not exceeding $50,000;
(c)
for Sub-Loans;
(d)
interest and other charges on Steel Company Subsidiary Loans; and
(e)
for expenditures for training;
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist Chongqing in: (1) achieving a 
significant reduction in pollution generated by the iron and steel industry and 
restructuring of productive facilities in such industry; (2) developing a strategy and 
action plans for the reduction of pollution throughout the industrial sector; and (3) 
initiating a pilot program to assist industrial enterprises to modernize their 
operations in an environmentally sound manner.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Environmental Action Plans
Undertaking by Chongqing of a program of pollution control, including the 
development and implementation of action plans for:
Page  12
(1)
pollution control in the iron and steel sector, such plans to include priority 
pollution mitigation measures for steel plants so as to improve their compliance with 
environmental regulations governing air, water and solid waste management;
(2)
overall pollution control in all industrial sectors, including the 
identification of the most serious industrial polluters on the basis of data collected 
pursuant to Part D (1) (a) of the Project, and the design of least cost pollution 
mitigation measures; and
(3)
enforcement of environmental regulations governing, inter alia, environmental 
registration, environmental impact assessments and their implementation, environmental 
monitoring of air quality, compliance with air quality standards, and emission levies.
Part B:
Industrial Relocation
Carrying out of a program of closure, physical relocation and restructuring of 
production facilities of CSSC and CISGC and their financial restructuring, consisting 
of:
(1)
relocation of CSSC’s steel production facilities in Chongqing’s Shaping Ba 
district to Jinkou farm in the Shang Bei district; resettlement of about 3,000 persons 
residing in the vicinity of said farm; replacement of CSSC’s production equipment 
with, inter alia, an electric arc furnace with a capacity of about 100 tons, a ladle 
metallurgy furnace with a vacuum degasser and continuous billet caster, and related 
equipment; and installation of environmental pollution control facilities for CSSC; 
and
(2)
relocation of CISGC’s steel production facilities in Chongqing’s Jiangbei 
district to its steel complex in Chongqing’s Dadukuo district; replacement of CISGC’s 
existing production equipment with, inter alia, an electric arc furnace with a 
capacity of about 60 tons, a ladle metallurgy furnace with a vacuum degasser and 
continuous billet caster, and related equipment; and installation of environmental 
pollution control facilities for CISGC.
Part C:
Line of Credit
Financing, through the provision of Sub-loans, by the Financial Intermediaries, 
of specific subprojects to upgrade the facilities and strengthen the organization, 
management and operations of SOEs and NSOEs, all so as to improve the efficient 
operation of such entities and ensure their compliance with applicable environmental 
laws and regulations.
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening
(1)
Strengthening of the institutional capabilities of Chongqing’s agencies 
responsible for environmental management, surplus labor redeployment and state asset 
management, through:
(a)
the provision to the Chongqing Environmental Protection Bureau of 
automatic and semi-automatic monitoring stations, source monitoring mobile equipment, 
a laboratory and related equipment to improve ambient and source air and water quality 
monitoring systems; the development by said Bureau of hazardous waste management and 
disposal plans; the establishment and operation within said Bureau of an environmental 
audit unit, and the establishment and operation of a data processing information 
center;
(b)
the establishment and operation of a Surplus Labor Employment and 
Training Center to provide training and job placement services to redundant workers 
and enterprises, including the provision of equipment, training and the development of 
a unemployment insurance database and management system;
(c)
the preparation and implementation of a plan to establish a model 
cross-sectoral industrial state asset operating company; and
(d)
the establishment and operation of restructuring advisory facilities to 
assist NSOEs in preparing restructuring plans and investment proposals.
Page  13
(2)
Strengthening of the institutional capabilities of the Financial Intermediaries 
through the provision of training to their staff in credit policy, procedures and 
analysis, and project appraisal and supervision.
*               *                 *               *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of
Principal (Expressed
Date Payment Due
in Dollars)*         
March 15, 2002
3,645,000
September 15, 2002
3,750,000
March 15, 2003
3,855,000
September 15, 2003
3,965,000
March 15, 2004
4,080,000
September 15, 2004
4,200,000
March 15, 2005
4,320,000
September 15, 2005
4,445,000
March 15, 2006
4,570,000
September 15, 2006
4,705,000
March 15, 2007
4,840,000
September 15, 2007
4,980,000
March 15, 2008
5,120,000
September 15, 2008
5,270,000
March 15, 2009
5,420,000
September 15, 2009
5,580,000
March 15, 2010
5,740,000
September 15, 2010
5,905,000
March 15, 2011
6,075,000
September 15, 2011
6,250,000
March 15, 2012
6,430,000
September 15, 2012
6,615,000
March 15, 2013
6,805,000
September 15, 2013
7,000,000
March 15, 2014
7,200,000
September 15, 2014
7,410,000
March 15, 2015
7,625,000
September 15, 2015
7,840,000
March 15, 2016
8,070,000
September 15, 2016
8,290,000 
___________________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4);
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; provided, however, 
that notwithstanding the provisions of Part A.4 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Financial 
Intermediaries Project Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed out of the 
Page  14
proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special Account before the 
Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof.  Such 
expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the Bank shall 
subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation means an amount equivalent to $10,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$6,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $40,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Page  15
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
