Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4045 CHA
Steel Companies
Project Agreement
(Chongqing Industrial Pollution
Control and Reform Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CHONGQING SPECIAL STEEL COMPANY (GROUP) LIMITED
and
CHONGQING IRON AND STEEL COMPANY (GROUP) LIMITED
Dated December 4, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4045 CHA
STEEL COMPANIES PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  December 4, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CHONGQING SPECIAL STEEL COMPANY (GROUP) 
LIMITED (CSSC) AND CHONGQING IRON AND STEEL COMPANY (GROUP) LIMITED (CISGC) (CSSC and 
CISGC hereinafter referred to collectively as the Steel Companies).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to one hundred seventy million dollars ($170,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the 
Steel Companies agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth 
in this Agreement;
(B) by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between Chongqing and the 
Steel Companies (the Steel Company Subsidiary Loan Agreements), part of the proceeds 
of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to the Steel 
Companies on the terms and conditions set forth in the Steel Company Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements; and
WHEREAS the Steel Companies, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
Page  2
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Steel Companies declare their commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, 
CSSC shall carry out Part B (1) of the Project and CISGC shall carry out Part B (2) of 
the Project, each with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and industrial practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for Part B of the Project.
(b)
CSSC shall establish to the Bank’s satisfaction that funds required for 
the implementation of Part B.1 of the Project, and additional to: (i) funds from the 
Loan; (ii) any short term debt of CSSC; and (iii) equity provided in accordance with 
Part C.1 of Schedule 2 to the Chongqing Project Agreement, are available to CSSC from 
additional equity contribution and/or debt financing with a maturity of at least six 
years, in an aggregate amount of at least $53,733,400 equivalent.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and each Steel Company shall otherwise agree, each Steel 
Company shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. Each Steel Company shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Steel Companies 
Project Agreement and its Respective Part of the Project.
Section 2.04. Each Steel Company shall duly perform all its obligations under 
its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
no Steel Company shall  take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, 
or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. Each Steel Company shall: (a) at the request of the Bank, exchange 
views with the Bank with regard to the progress of its Respective Part of the Project, 
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and its respective Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan; and
(b)
promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens 
to interfere with the progress of its Respective Part of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or its performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Steel Companies
Page  3
Section 3.01. Each Steel Company shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and industrial practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Each Steel Company shall at all times operate and maintain its 
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and industrial practices.
Section 3.03. Each Steel Company shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Each Steel Company shall: (a) maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and 
financial condition.
(b)
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year:
(A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year 
as so 
audited; and
(B)
the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and 
in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, neither:
(a)
Steel Company shall incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of its 
revenues and expenditures show that its estimated net revenues for each fiscal year 
during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.2 times its estimated 
debt service requirements in such year on all its debt including the debt to be 
incurred.
(b)
Steel Company shall incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt 
the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 70 to 30.
(c)
Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, each Steel Company shall, 
on the basis of forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether 
it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section in 
respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank 
the results of such review upon its completion.
(d)
If any such review shows that a Steel Company would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section for the fiscal years 
covered by such review, such Steel Company shall promptly take all necessary measures 
(inclu\1fding, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its prices) 
in order to meet such requirements.
Page  4
(e)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of a Steel Company maturing 
by its 
terms more than one year after the date on 
which it is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
(A)
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument 
providing for 
such debt or for the modification of its 
terms of payment on the date 
of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and
(B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for 
such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations includ\1fing 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of 
taxes, but excluding 
provision for deprecia\1ftion, other non-cash 
operating charges and interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges 
on, debt.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by a 
Steel Company 
not earlier than twelve months prior to the 
incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both the Bank and 
said Steel Company accept as reasonable and 
as to which the Bank 
has notified said Steel Company of its acceptability, 
provided that no event has occurred since such notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect 
on the 
financial condition or future operating results of 
said Steel Company.
(vii)
The term "current assets" means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary 
course of business be converted into cash within 
twelve months, including 
accounts receivable, marketable 
securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses 
properly chargeable 
to operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(viii) The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then 
existing be called for payment 
within twelve months, 
including accounts payable, customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(ix)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of Renminbi, debt payable in another currency, 
such valuation shall be 
made on the basis of the prevailing 
lawful rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes 
of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
Page  5
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03.  Each Steel Company shall:
(a)
not later than October 31 in each fiscal year, commencing October 31, 
1996, through October 31, 2002, prepare and furnish to the Bank and Chongqing for 
review a rolling five-year investment and financing plan, including projected income 
statements, sources and uses of funds and balance sheets, and supported by a detailed 
analysis of trends in production costs and inventory levels, and an analysis of 
operational and budgetary variances for the current fiscal year, and financing 
arrangements for investments said Steel Company proposes to undertake;
(b)
afford the Bank and Chongqing a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with said Steel Company on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, promptly implement said plan during the following year, 
taking into account the comments of the Bank and Chongqing thereon.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the Steel 
Companies thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the Steel 
Companies thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For CSSC:
Chongqing Special Steel Company (Group) Limited
143 Tuanjieba, Shuangbei, Shapingba District
Chongqing
Page  6
People's Republic of China 630032
Cable address:
Telex:
CHONGQING 0500
62155 SCUGY CN
For CISGC:
Chongqing Iron and Steel Company (Group) Limited
Iron & Steel Road, No. 30
Da Du Kou District
Chongqing
People's Republic of China 630081
Cable address:
Telex:
6921
62156 SCCGY CN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of any Steel 
Company may be taken or executed by its Chairman of the Board of Directors or such 
other person or persons as such Chairman shall designate in writing, and the Steel 
Companies shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/  Marianne Haug
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
CHONGQING SPECIAL STEEL COMPANY
(GROUP) LIMITED
By /s/  Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
CHONGQING IRON AND STEEL COMPANY 
(GROUP) LIMITED
Page  7
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions 
of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost more than $200,000 but less than $500,000 equivalent per 
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $11,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost more than $100,000 but less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $11,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Page  8
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to:
(a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; or
(b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall 
not apply to:
(i)
the terms of reference for such contracts;
(ii)
single-source selection of consulting firms;
(iii)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Bank;
(iv)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the 
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or 
above; and
(v)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising 
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
CSSC shall carry out Part B (1) of the Project in accordance with the CSSC 
Feasibility Document, the CSSC EIA and the CSSC RAP, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank, and shall furnish any revision to said document, assessment and plan to the Bank 
for its prior approval.
2.
CISGC shall carry out Part B (2) of the Project in accordance with the CISGC 
Feasibility Document and the CISGC EIA, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, and shall 
furnish any revision to said document and assessment to the Bank for its prior 
approval.
Page  9
3.
Each Steel Company shall ensure that any future use of the land from which its 
facilities will be relocated under its Respective Part of the Project shall conform to 
applicable environmental regulations.
4.
Each Steel Company shall maintain its Project implementation unit, to coordinate 
and manage overall implementation of its respective part of the Project, with 
competent staff in adequate numbers and with functions and responsibilities acceptable 
to the Bank. Each Steel Company shall, through its Project implementation unit and in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, monitor the implementation of its 
Respective Part of the Project, prepare annual progress reports and a mid-term report 
to be furnished to Chongqing's Project management office for inclusion in the reports 
to be prepared by Chongqing pursuant to Part A.4 of Schedule 2 to the Chongqing 
Project Agreement, and implement the measures recommended in said reports to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, taking into account the comments of the Bank on the matter.
