Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 4045 CHA
chongqing Project Agreement
(Chongqing Industrial Pollution
Control and Reform Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CHONGQING MUNICIPALITY
Dated December 4, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4045 CHA
CHONGQING PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  December 4, 1996 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CHONGQING MUNICIPALITY (Chongqing).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to one hundred seventy million dollars ($170,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
Chongqing agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
WHEREAS Chongqing, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Page  2
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Chongqing declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end:  (i) shall 
carry out Parts A and D (1) of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and industrial 
practices; (ii) shall (A) cause the Steel Companies to perform all their respective 
obligations set forth in the Steel Companies Project Agreement, (B) take or cause to 
be taken all action, necessary or appropriate to enable the Steel Companies to perform 
such obligations; and (C) not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance; and (iii) shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Chongqing shall otherwise agree, Chongqing shall carry out 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Chongqing shall relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to Categories (1)(a) and (3) (a) to CSSC, and to Categories (1) (b) and 
(3) (b), to CISGC, under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between 
Chongqing and the Steel Companies, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank and which shall include, without limitation, the following:
(i)
the principal amount of the Steel Company Subsidiary Loan made to 
each Steel 
Company shall be denominated and repayable in dollars 
and be equal to the sum 
of (A) the amount of the Loan withdrawn 
on account of the cost of goods and 
services for Part B (1) or 
B (2) of the Project, as the case may be, plus (B) 
the amount of 
interest and other charges on such Steel Company Subsidiary Loan 
which has been capitalized as provided in subparagraph (v) below;
(ii)
each Steel Company Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid to Chongqing 
over a period 
of twelve years, inclusive of a grace period 
of five years;
(iii)
each Steel Company Subsidiary Loan shall be charged, on the 
principal amount 
thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, interest at a rate equal 
at least to (A) the rate of 
interest applicable from time to time to the Loan 
pursuant to 
Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement plus (B) 1.2%;
(iv)
each Steel Company Subsidiary Loan shall be charged, on the 
principal thereof 
not withdrawn from time to time, a commitment 
charge at a rate equal to 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 
of 1%) per annum; and
(v)
interest and other charges on each Steel Company Subsidiary Loan 
that shall be 
accrued and payable during the execution of 
Part B (1) or B (2) of the 
Project, as the case may 
be, may be capitalized and paid out of the proceeds 
of such Steel 
Company Subsidiary Loan in accordance with the guidelines 
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
Chongqing shall relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to 
time to Category (2) to the Financial Intermediaries under subsidiary loan agreements 
to be entered into between Chongqing and the Financial Intermediaries, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall include, without 
limitation, the following:
(i)
the principal amount of the Financial Intermediary Subsidiary Loan 
made to 
each Financial Intermediary shall be 
denominated and repayable in dollars and 
be equal to the 
aggregate amount of the principal of all Sub-loans made by it;
(ii)
each Financial Intermediary Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid to 
Chongqing over 
a period of twenty years, inclusive of a grace 
Page  3
period of five years;
(iii)
each Financial Intermediary Subsidiary Loan shall be charged, on 
the principal 
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, interest at a rate 
equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan 
pursuant to 
Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement; and
(iv)
each Financial Intermediary Subsidiary Loan shall be charged, on 
the principal 
thereof not withdrawn from time to time, a 
commitment charge at a rate equal 
to three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
(c)
Chongqing shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and Chongqing and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Chongqing 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or 
any provision thereof. 
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for Parts A and D (1) of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. Chongqing shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Chongqing Project 
Agreement and its Respective Part of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Chongqing shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Chongqing shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Chongqing of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Chongqing shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of its Respective Part of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of Chongqing responsible for carrying out such 
Part  or any portion thereof.
(b)
Chongqing shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
Page  4
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Chongqing 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Chongqing thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI), or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Chongqing:
Chongqing Municipal Management Office
  of World Bank’s Capital Utilization
115 Renmin Road
Chongqing
People's Republic of China 630015
Telex:
62189 CTCXN CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Chongqing may 
be taken or executed by the Mayor or such other person or persons as said Mayor shall 
designate in writing, and Chongqing shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  5
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Marianne Haug
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
CHONGQING MUNICIPALITY
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions 
of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.  
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost more than $100,000 but less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,800,000 equivalent, may be 
Page  6
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $900,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or  more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract for goods not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II. 
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to:
(a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; or
(b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall 
not apply to:
(i)
the terms of reference for such contracts;
(ii)
single-source selection of consulting firms;
(iii)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Bank;
(iv)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the 
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or 
above; or
Page  7
(v)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising 
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.
Project Management, Monitoring and Reporting
1.
Chongqing shall maintain with terms of reference, membership or staffing and 
other resources acceptable to the Bank: 
(a)
a Project leading group to be responsible for providing policy guidance 
under the Project;
(b)
a Project management office (PMO) to be responsible for overall 
management of the Project; and
(c)
a resettlement unit within the PMO to be responsible for overall 
management of the resettlement carried out under Part B (1) of the Project.
2.
Chongqing shall establish not later than December 31, 1996 and thereafter at all 
times maintain, with terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to 
the Bank, an environmental unit within the PMO, to be responsible for the overall 
management of environmental issues that may arise under the Project.
3.
Chongqing shall, not later than one month after the Effective Date:
(a)
establish the environmental audit unit, referred to in Part D 2 (a) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions thereof; and
(b)
sign a contract with international consultants for the training of the 
staff of said environmental audit unit.
4.
Monitoring
Chongqing shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to 
the Bank, the carrying out of the Project, and its overall environmental status.
5.
Reporting
With limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, 
Chongqing shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, the following reports:
(a)
annual reports on or about July 30 in each year, integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Part A, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and in improving 
its environmental status during the twelve-month period ending the preceding June 30, 
including a review of the implementation of the action plans referred to in Part B of 
this Schedule, the Resettlement Action Plans, the Environmental Impact Assessments, 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the next twelve months; 
and thereafter, implement the said measures without delay taking into account the 
Bank's comments on the report; and
(b)
a mid-term report, not later than March 31, 1999 integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Part A, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the 
improvement of its environmental status during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient completion of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and thereafter implement 
the said measures without delay taking into account the Bank's comments on the report.
B.
Part A of the Project: Environmental Action Plans
Page  8
1.
Chongqing shall carry out Parts A (1) and (3) of the Project in accordance with 
action plans acceptable to the Bank. Without limitation upon the foregoing, Chongqing 
shall, under Part A of the Project, implement the plan referred in Section 6.01(a) of 
the Loan Agreement.
2.
Chongqing shall under Part A (2) of the Project prepare and adopt, not later 
than December 31, 1998, an industrial pollution control strategy and action plan, 
acceptable to the Bank, designed to control industrial wastewater, air pollution and 
solid and hazardous waste; and thereafter, implement the said plan in accordance with 
its terms and furnish any proposed revision to the said plan to the Bank for its 
approval.
C.
Part B of the Project:  Industrial Relocation
1.
Chongqing shall, not later than December 31, 1999, provide additional equity to 
CSSC in an amount of 250,000,000 Renminbi.
2.
Unless the Bank agrees otherwise, Chongqing shall provide additional equity to 
CISGC in an amount of 140,000,000 Renminbi not later than December 31, 1997.
3.
Thereafter, promptly provide the Steel Companies with such additional equity as 
shall be needed to enable them to carry out their five year investment and financing 
plans pursuant to Section 4.03 of the Steel Companies Project Agreement.
D.
Part D of the Project:  Institutional Strengthening
1.
Chongqing shall carry out Part D (1) of the Project in accordance with a 
time-bound program satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Without limitation upon the foregoing, Chongqing shall establish and thereafter 
at all times maintain:
(a)
an environmental audit unit within its Environmental Protection Bureau, 
with terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
under Part D (1) (b) of the Project, the Surplus Labor Employment and 
Training Center referred to in said Part, with terms of reference, staffing, and other 
resources acceptable to the Bank.
