                                        Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: 27283-CHA




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            (TF-22776 SCL-40450 TF-29174 TF-28471)

                                            ON A

                                           LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$170 MILLION

                                           TO THE

                                PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                           FOR A

              CHONGQING INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION AND REFORM PROJECT




                                        June 17, 2004




Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2003)

                                  Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
                                          Y1.00 = US$ 0.12
                                          US$ 1 = 8.27

                                        FISCAL YEAR

                                   January 1   December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
C/DLP   Country or district level projects
CEPB    Chongqing Environmental Protection Bureau
CISGC   Chongqing Iron and Steel Group Company
CIPCRP  Chongqing Industrial Pollution Control and Reform Project
CLB     Chongqing Labor Bureau
CMG     Chongqing Municipal Government
CPC     Chongqing Planning Commission
CPMO    Chongqing Project Management Office
CSSC    Chongqing Special Steel Company
CUEP    Chongqing Urban Environment Project (Ln. 4561-CHA)
EAF     Electric Arc Furnace
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
LOC     Line of Credit
MIS     Management Information System
MLP     Municipal level projects
MOF     Ministry of Finance
PMO     Project Management Office
RAF     Restructuring Advisory Facility
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SARS    Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
SOE     State Owned Enterprise
SO2     Sulfur Dioxide
TA      Technical Assistance
TSP     Total Suspended Dust Particles
ZICC    Zhongxing Industrial and Commercial Company



                                Vice President:   Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAP
                              Country Director:   Mr. Yukon Huang, EACCF
                               Sector Director:   Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
                            Task Team Leader:     Mr. Wiebe Moes, AFTU2

                                            CHINA
                 Chongqing Industrial Pollution Control and Reform Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35

Project ID: P003646                                                  Project Name: Chongqing Industrial Pollution Control
                                                                     and Reform Project
Team Leader: Wiebe Moes                                              TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 17, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Chongqing Industrial Pollution Control and               L/C/TF Number: TF-22776; SCL-40450;
                            Reform Project                                                           TF-29174; TF-28471
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other industry (96%); Sub-national government administration
                            (3%); Other social services (1%)
                  Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (P); Environmental
                            policies and institutions (P); Municipal governance and institution
                            building (P); Social risk reduction (S); Technology diffusion (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/23/1993                                     Effective:                           03/07/1997
     Appraisal: 11/22/1995                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/18/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA/CHONGQING MUNICIPALITY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Russell Cheetham
Country Director:               Yukon Huang                                    Nicolas Hope
Sector Manager:                 Keshav Varma                                   Katherine Sierra
Team Leader at ICR:             Wiebe Moes                                     Neil Hughes
ICR Primary Author:             Neil Hughes; Herbert Boehm


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Introduction. For over two decades, China has been undergoing a transformation from a
centrally planned economy to a market oriented one. By the early 1990s, it was evident that
China's coastal provinces were the main beneficiaries of economic opening, so the government
asked for Bank support in developing the country's lagging interior provinces. Chongqing
Municipal Government (CMG) was selected because it was (a) the largest repository of
accumulated capital and technical skills in the southwest; (b) was dealing with serious enterprise
productivity and pollution problems; (c) had a municipal government committed to reducing
industrial pollution and restructuring state-owned enterprises (SOEs); and (d) had the strong
support of the central government to take a lead role in carrying out enterprise reforms.

Both the government and the Bank felt that environmental pollution control and enterprise reform
provided a sound basis for an industrial sector project which would help SOEs make the difficult
transition to market-oriented operations. Both agreed that reform objectives needed to be closely
allied to environmental pollution control objectives to ensure that project outcomes would be
environmentally sustainable.

Against this backdrop, the Chongqing Industrial Pollution Control and Reform Project (CIPCRP)
was conceived to assist CMG in attaining three main objectives: Objective (a), to achieve a
significant reduction in pollution and restructure productive facilities in Chongqing's most
polluting industry, iron and steel, which was still using highly obsolete and inefficient 1940s and
1950s technology in steel making; Objective (b), to increase the effectiveness of Chongqing's
environmental regulatory framework and pollution management capacity as part of a plan to
reduce industrial pollution overall; and Objective (c), to assist industrial enterprises outside the
steel sector to reduce pollution and modernize their facilities.

Assessment of objectives. The project objectives were clearly defined and consistent with the
Bank's evolving strategy in supporting SOE reform and industrial pollution control. They
supported the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives and sector work
recommendations, were responsive to both national and municipal government developmental
priorities, and were realistic given the Borrower's firm commitment to carry out its economic
reform program.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Following the cancellation of the Line-of-Credit (LOC) component in 1999, Objective (c) was no
longer applicable. Objectives (a) and (b) did not change because they did not depend on Bank
financing. Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement was not amended to reflect this change because it
was felt that the project's overall objectives remained substantially the same.

3.3 Original Components:
The Bank loan was approved by the Board on June 18, 1996 and became effective on March 7,
1997. Its four main parts are described below.




                                                 - 2 -

        PART A included economic and environmental policy agendas and action plans designed
to assist CMG in implementing its economic reforms and in improving its monitoring and control
of environmental pollution, and enforcement of environmental laws and regulations;

        PART B consisted of two parts. The industrial relocation subcomponent included
closure of Chongqing's two obsolete and most polluting steel plants located in the center of
Chongqing, and their construction of modern non-polluting productive facilities outside the city
center. The Restructuring Advisory Facility (RAF) subcomponent was to assist SOEs in
preparing restructuring plans and related investment strategies in order to meet the
creditworthiness standards of banks wishing to finance such enterprises under Part D (see below)
of the Project;

        PART C included a LOC to support industrial enterprises that had adopted a corporate
structure, had a viable business plan prepared by the RAF or other certified entity, had completed
an environmental audit by the Chongqing Environmental Protection Bureau (CEPB), and required
financing to restructure productive facilities and clean up pollution;

        PART D provided for technical assistance to strengthen the CEPB's environmental
monitoring and regulatory capability, to enable the Chongqing Labor Bureau (CLB) to train and
re-employ surplus labor and assist the Chongqing State Asset Management Bureau to establish a
new form of state asset management organization.

Assessment of project design. The project components were reasonably well related to
achieving the project objectives. However, the project was quite complex and involved
numerous implementing agencies, none of which had any prior experience with the Bank's policies
and procedures. Coordinating this project was recognized as a challenge for CMG.

3.4 Revised Components:
At the request of the central government, a total of $104 million was cancelled in 1999 in two
separate increments of $42,000,000 and $62,000,000 from Part B (industrial restructuring and
relocation) of the project. The three participating banks under Part C (LOC) withdrew from the
project, and the $50 million allocated to this component was cancelled in two separate
cancellations of $16,000,000 and $34,000,000, at the request of the central government in 1999.
In 2000, the central government requested cancellation of $10,828,690.48 including $10,000,000
that was unallocated, $630,000 for the surplus labor re-deployment and $120,000 to establish a
model cross-sectoral state asset operating company from Part D (institutional strengthening), and
$78,690.48 for interest during construction for CSSC. Total cancellations amounted to
US$166,149,161.40 at closing. The legal documents were not formally amended, but the
cancellations were likely reported in the Monthly Report to the Executive Directors. The reasons
for the cancellations are summarized below.

Cancellation of Steel Plant Restructuring and Relocation (Part B): Initially, investments in
new plant and equipment for both the Chongqing Iron and Steel Group Company (CISGC) and
the Chongqing Special Steel Company (CSSC), were not allowed to proceed because the central
government was concerned about excess capacity in the steel industry, and central government
objected to CSSC's intention to establish its new steel plant in a rural area (there was a freeze on
using agricultural land for nonagricultural purposes). During the East Asia financial crisis of


                                                 - 3 -

1997-1998, declining demand and falling international steel prices led to increasing competition
from low-priced imports, and the financial performance of the two companies suffered.

With its 1950's steel making technology and many redundant workers, CSSC was a very high cost
and inefficient operation. It could not match competitors' prices, and between 1993-1996, its
regional market share in special steels declined from 60 to 35 percent. By 1998, in spite of drastic
cost-cutting, the outlook for CSSC looked grim, and the Bank and the Borrower decided to
cancel this part of the project.

CISGC was listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange in 1997 and raised $85 million in new
equity. The company actually increased its sales volume during the difficult 1997-1998 period.
However, severe competition resulted in much lower margins on sales, and it could not meet its
debt service coverage requirement with the Bank. In 1999, the Bank temporarily halted
implementation of the entire project. It informed CMG that the project could restart once: (a)
CMG furnished the Bank with a financial restructuring plan demonstrating that CISGC would
meet its financial obligations under the project; and (b) CMG would commit to providing the
equity financing required by CISGC. The Bank further required that CISGC prepare an
appropriate study of its restructuring needs which the Bank could then use as the basis for its
appraisal of the company's restructuring. As the financial outlook and thus the long-term
sustainability of the company remained uncertain and, in addition, local currency loans became
available markedly below the Bank Loan's interest rates, it was decided that cancellation of Part B
and most of Part D of the project was the rational and preferred option under the circumstances.

Cancellation of Line-of-Credit Component (Part C). Cancellation of this component occurred
because participating banks could provide local currency financing at lower interest rates than the
Bank loan without having to meet Bank requirements governing enterprise eligibility, project
appraisal and procurement. By borrowing in local currency, enterprises could also avoid the
foreign exchange risk which they had to assume on Bank sub-loans.

Cancellation of Surplus Labor Re-employment Support (subcomponent of Part D). The
magnitude of Chongqing's surplus labor problem became apparent only in 1997, when Chongqing
doubled in size and population and the Asian financial crisis affected SOE performance. CLB
therefore decided to expand its job training and re-employment facilities from one center to 43
centers, and to create a management information system (MIS) dealing with the whole social
security system. The Bank was asked to agree to use $10 million of unallocated Loan proceeds to
finance this effort. When project implementation was temporarily halted by the Bank in 1999,
senior Ministry of Finance (MOF) and CMG officials requested the Bank to allow work to
continue on this component. The Bank, however, suggested this component be included in a new
Chongqing project focused on social protection issues. CMG eventually requested cancellation of
this component, citing the ready availability of local currency at low interest rates as the reason.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The Project was consistent with the Bank's CAS objectives
of supporting the Chinese government's efforts to develop China's interior provinces, improving
environmental protection, and advancing SOE reform. This approach was validated by Bank
sector work ("Policy Options for Reform of Chinese State-Owned Enterprises", World Bank


                                                 - 4 -

Discussion Paper No. 335 of 1996, and "China's Management of State Assets: the State as
Shareholder" (1997).) The project also incorporated lessons learned from industrial restructuring
projects in China, as well as world-wide. Its design of a pollution control strategy was based on
the results of four studies carried out under grant financing from the Japanese government. A
World Bank Project Management Office (PMO) was established to coordinate implementation of
the project, and a Leading Group under a vice mayor was formed to provide direction and
leadership to PMO.

The project's compliance with Bank safeguard policies was satisfactory. The project was
correctly determined to be a Category "A". Environmental assessments were prepared by the
Chongqing Iron and Steel Design Institute, reviewed by the Bank, approved by the National
Environmental Protection Agency, and submitted to the Bank's Board. The steel companies
committed themselves to implementing the environments mitigation plans at negotiations. In
addition to tackling air pollution, the project can be credited with making a head-start in
addressing water pollution and hazardous waste management and disposal, as part of its overall
industrial pollution control plan.

With regard to involuntary resettlement, the project included a resettlement action plan (RAP) for
the CSSC. The RAP covered resettlement of some 3,018 individuals in 1,014 households. A
socioeconomic survey of all 1,014 households on the affected site (Jinkou Farm) was carried out,
and the RAP revised accordingly. The project had available agreed terms of reference, selection
criteria and procedures for an external monitor for the RAP. The project's resettlement policy
framework was provided in the SAR (Annex 3.10). Finally, the PMO had established a
resettlement unit to ensure that resettlement policies and procedures would be followed, to
coordinate with stakeholders, to supervise the mitigation actions, and to provide periodic reports
to the government and the Bank.

Risk assessment. The project's risk assessment was mixed. The first major challenge cited was
CMG's possible inability to maintain the political will to carry through the full range of reforms.
In fact, CMG has sustained its will for environmental reform steadily to the present. The second
significant risk relating to the commitment by the financial institutions to implement the
line-of-credit component was also correctly identified as the banks would be unwilling to carry the
financial risks of high priority environmental projects. Another major risk cited, the CMG's lack
of experience in implementing a Bank project, particularly CEPB, was borne out in
implementation. In contrast, the risk that there could be a shortage of counterpart funding never
became an important issue.

Demand for project outputs. The assumption that the Chinese economy would continue to
grow along established patterns, thereby maintaining demand for steel and iron products, seemed
reasonable at the time of appraisal in November 1995. However, that assumption turned out to
be incorrect, particularly with regard to the steep decline of the iron and steel markets in the late
1990s when the East Asia financial crisis hit.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs



                                                  - 5 -

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The overarching goal of the project was to assist CMG in significantly reducing air pollution in
the metropolitan area. Despite cancellation of most of the Loan amount, the project's key
development objectives were substantially achieved. However, as it is exceedingly difficult to
determine the project's actual contribution to achieving these objectives, its performance is
cautiously rated moderately satisfactory. The project achieved its primary goal of eliminating
the two major sources of air pollution in Chongqing's iron and steel industry. This goal was
achieved even though Bank support to construct modern non-polluting steel production facilities,
to replace those being closed down, was no longer available. Chongqing's improved air quality
has been confirmed by Bank supervision missions and is further substantiated by the project's
development objective indicators (see tables below).

Two of the three project institutional objectives have been achieved in spite of the loan
cancellations. Both CMG and the central government have taken steps to ensure that Objective
(a), pertaining to reducing air pollution, was carried out. Objective (b), which involved
strengthening pollution monitoring, regulation and control at CEPB, has been achieved now that
monitoring data is available to enable CEPB to establish a pollution control plan covering the
entire industrial sector. Objective (c) pertaining to the utilization of the LOC was no longer
applicable after cancellation of the LOC component.

Achievement of Objective (a). The project outcome, in terms of the satisfactory rating for
CMG's efforts to control and regulate environmental pollution, was achieved because CMG's
commitment to carry out the environmental policies and action plans included in the project,
remained firm throughout project implementation. This level of commitment was sustained even
when the project was in abeyance between May 1999 and March 2000 because project action
plans were such an integral part of CMG's own policy reform agenda, and because the central
government provided strong leadership support and enacted key legislation for strengthening the
pollution control regulatory framework. Most of all, this was due to CMG's realization that
economic growth had to be environmentally sustainable if permanent damage to the environment
and its inhabitants was to be avoided.

The project's development objective indicators measure the degree to which air pollution, in the
form of ambient concentrations of particulate matter, were reduced in the Jiangbei and Shapingba
urban districts, where CISGC's and CSSC's most polluting facilities were located. To achieve the
targeted particulate reductions, CISGC and CSSC agreed to shut down their steel making plants
in the two districts. The development objectives also sought to measure whether particulate air
pollution would increase in the districts in which new steel making facilities were to be built. Air
quality measurements at Jinkou Farm are no longer required, because the new steel making
facilities, which were expected to be built there, were not constructed (See sections 3.4, 5.2 for
details).




                                                 - 6 -

CISGC closed down all steel making facilities at Jiangbei, except for a steel pipe rolling mill
powered by natural gas, which has a negligible impact on air quality. The project's objective of
eliminating air pollution at the Jiangbei plant has therefore been effectively met, and this is
confirmed by monitoring tests required to meet the project's development objectives.

CSSC closed down eight of ten highly polluting electric arc furnaces (EAFs) at its Shapingba
plant, installed dust control equipment on the other two EAFs, and added one new EAF with dust
control equipment, which was financed by the Government through its technical reform
investment company. The positive impact of these actions has been confirmed by air quality
monitoring tests carried out in accordance with the project's development objectives. CSSC did
not go ahead with its intended expansion and has reduced its steel-making capacity by 67 percent
and its workforce by 88 percent.

                       4.1: DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE INDICATORS
                    Ambient air quality: micrograms of total suspended dust particles (TSP)
                                       per normal cubic meter (uNm3)



        OBJECTIVE A              1995     1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001      2002

        Shapingba District       570      310      300      290      330      310      270       260

        Jiangbei District        520      310      330      260      200      290      240       260

        Dadukou District         360      250      260      220      220      210      240       290

        Jinkou Farm              not applicable (see section 5.2 on prohibition of agricultural land for industrial
                                 development)

In 1995, CSSC's steel making facilities were responsible for 44 percent of ambient TSP levels in
Shapingba District and CISGC's steel plant in Jiangbei was responsible for 22 percent of ambient
TSP levels there. CISGC also had a steel plant at Dadukou, and the new facilities, which were to
have been financed by the project, were to have relocated there. The reductions in ambient TSP
levels, reflected in table 4.1 above, show steep drop-offs in TSP, and vividly indicate CMG's
serious commitment to reducing air pollution from the steel sector. The closure of two-thirds of
CSSC's outmoded and highly polluting facilities in Shapingba, and the installation of pollution
control equipment on the rest, clearly had the biggest impact on TSP levels, especially as CSSC
was responsible for almost one-half of dust emissions in the district. CISGC's contribution to
reducing TSP levels in Jiangbei was also very significant. Since both these districts contained a
large urban population, the positive impact on human health was immediate and is one of the
major benefits resulting from reducing pollution from Chongqing's most polluting industry.
CISGC's facilities in Dadukou District were more modern and less polluting. Nevertheless, the
effects of pollution control efforts there are also quite notable.




                                                     - 7 -

Achievement of Objective (b). Objective (b) was satisfactorily met. Four priority actions were
required to improve CEPB's pollution monitoring, regulatory capacity and control. CEPB's
compliance with these four actions, comparing percentage targets to actual percentages achieved,
is noteworthy:

           l priority polluting firms monitored for SO2 emissions                                         -           fully met
           l registered firms completing environmental impact assessment                                  -           fully met
           l cumulative increase in pollution levy revenues                                               -           fully met
           l firms completing "third synchronization" approval                                            -           fully met

Tables 4.2 and 4.3 below give institutional targets at appraisal and actual achievements. The
paragraphs on "environmental regulatory reform program and action plan" in section 4.2 below
provide further details.

         4.2: INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (APPRAISAL ESTIMATE)

                                                          1997           1998          1999          2000            2001     2002


OBJECTIVE A: CSSC and CISGC/ZICC
Net profit before taxes as % of total sales revenue                               Measured against performance indicators in
                                                                                        5-year rolling financial projections
debt-to-equity ratio                                      70:30
debt service coverage                                     1:2

OBJECTIVE B: CEPB
% of priority polluting firms reporting/monitored for        20             35            55             75             90     100
  SO2 emissions
% of registered firms completing EIAs                        75             85            95           100            100      100
% cumulative increase in pollution levy revenues             10             20            30             40             50      60
  (based on all pollutants)
% of firms completing "third synchronization" approval       30             50            75           100            100      100

OBJECTIVE C
% line-of-credit commitment                                  50             75           100
% line-of-credit disbursement                                15             35            65             85           100
% EIA mitigation plan compliance                            25%
  (as percentage disbursements)
Net profit amount, and as % of sales                       Measured against performance indicators in
                                                           enterprise restructuring plans




                                                             - 8 -

                  4.3: INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (ACTUAL)

                                                          1997     1998   1999    2000    2001    2002

OBJECTIVE A: CSSC and CISGC/ZICC
Net profit before taxes as % of total sales revenue        n/a      n/a    n/a     n/a     n/a     n/a

debt-to-equity ratio                                       70:30    n/a    n/a     n/a     n/a     n/a
debt service coverage                                      1:2      n/a    n/a     n/a     n/a     n/a

OBJECTIVE B: CEPB
% of priority polluting firms reporting/monitoring for
  SO2 emissions                                             70.0     98.0  98.0    100.0   100.0   100.0

% of registered firms completing EIAs           MLP*       100.0    100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0

                                                C/DLP**     80.0     84.0  86.0      91.4  99.7    100.0
% cumulative increase in pollution levy revenues            30.6     66.2  73.0      89.0  99.0    100.0
  (based on all pollutants)
% of firms completing                           MLP*        97.0     98.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
  "third synchronization" approval              C/DLP**     70.0     73.0  94.0      95.7  99.9    100.0

*MLP: municipal level projects
**C/DLP: county or district level projects

OBJECTIVE C

Not applicable after cancellation of LOC component.


Achievement of Objective (c). After the cancellation of the Loan proceeds for the Line of
Credit component, this objective was no longer applicable.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Part A: Economic Reform and Environmental Pollution Control Action Plans

The Chongqing Municipality Economic Policy Reform Agenda and Action Plan was used
as both a planning and implementation tool by CMG during project implementation. Specific
objectives monitored during Bank supervision missions were: (a) achieving corporatization and
management autonomy of SOEs; (b) divesting SOEs of social welfare functions; (c) facilitating
mergers or bankruptcy of nonviable SOEs; (d) retraining and redeployment of redundant labor;
(e) developing a residential housing market by selling public housing to private owners and
increasing public housing rents; and (f) establishing a municipality-wide social insurance system.
CMG's progress in carrying out these reforms has been mixed because:

          divestiture and corporatization of SOEs has progressed more slowly than anticipated;
          Government loans, interest rate subsidies and debt restructuring have been required to
           maintain SOE financial solvency;
          progress in social welfare and insurance reform has slowed until a national system is in
           place;
          CMG has been successful in placing two-thirds of laid-off workers in new jobs; and
          over 90 percent of public housing has been sold to private owners, and rents on public
           housing have been increased to meet the targeted level of 9 percent of average household
           income.



                                                             - 9 -

The Environmental Regulatory Reform Program and Action Plan has played a crucial role
in establishing a monitoring system covering new businesses and projects. Every new enterprise
has to register with CEPB once it becomes a legal entity. Every new project not only has to
submit an environmental impact assessment (EIA) to CEPB for approval, but projects which
include pollution control equipment also have to be inspected by CEPB at the design,
construction and commissioning stages (the "three synchronizations"). The plan also initiated
actions to implement new national legislation governing emissions of SO2, lead and polycyclic
hydrocarbons, and it increased pollution levy collections. Nevertheless, collections have been less
than assessments. To stimulate collections, polluters are allowed to buy new pollution control
equipment and deduct the cost from the amount of the assessment. One of the plan's main
contributions was to implement a municipality-wide plan to control industrial pollution.
Implementation of the plan was delayed because procurement for the necessary monitoring
equipment was completed only in June 2003.

The automated air quality monitoring system financed under the project included re-equipping
seven existing stations and establishing four new stations. From this data, CEPB issues daily
reports and forecasts by district; the reports are published in local newspapers, broadcast on
television, and are sent to the State Environmental Protection Agency in Beijing as input to the
national air quality monitoring system. The Bank also financed four mobile systems (two water
quality, one gas monitoring and one environmental auditing) which are used for point-source
monitoring, an environment management information system (MIS) and a water quality analysis
laboratory. The laboratory has been rated as one of the most modern in China.

In the six areas discussed below, compliance with reform targets has been highly satisfactory for
enterprise registration and environmental impact assessment, and enforcement of the "three
synchronizations." Compliance has been satisfactory for SO2 emissions reduction, pollution levy
collections and monitoring of lead and polycyclic hydrocarbons. Progress in preparing a
municipal industrial pollution control plan has been unsatisfactory. The overall compliance rate
for this component is satisfactory.

     SO2 emissions. A SO2 emissions tax on industrial enterprises was enacted in 1996. The
    number of priority SO2 polluting firms being monitored rose from 70 percent in 1997 to 100
    percent in 2000, 2001 and 2002. Between 1997-2000, collection of emission levies
    fluctuated between RMB 7.3 million and RMB 24.2 million because a single entity,
    Chongqing Electrical Generating Company, was responsible for almost one-half of SO2
    emissions, and the actual levy it paid depended upon its cash flow and willingness to pay.
    Other large polluters behaved similarly. In 2001, CMG took a much tougher line with large
    SO2 polluters and levy collections increased to RMB 63 million. CMG is also now requiring
    major SO2 polluters to install pollution control equipment at the source, or to close down the
    polluting facilities.

     Enterprise compliance with registration and EIAs. In 1996, CMG issued a regulation
    requiring all new enterprises to register with CEPB. The compliance rate increased from 90
    percent in 1997 to 100 percent in 2001 and 2002. The doubling in size of Chongqing



                                                 - 10 -

    municipality in 1997 by an administrative decree complicated monitoring of registrations,
    especially in remote areas, and it was not possible to register all new projects that year. The
    compliance rate for enterprises undergoing EIAs increased from 85 percent in 1997 to 100
    percent in 2002.

     Enforcement of "three synchronizations." This system has worked well, but
    compliance was low in 1998, when only 73 percent of projects completed all three pollution
    checks. This was due to the failure to complete projects, resulting from the bursting of the
    real estate "bubble" in 1998, when 226 mostly construction projects never reached final
    commissioning. By 2001, the compliance rate was 99.7 percent and in 2002 was 100 percent.

     Enforcement of the pollution levy. There are three sources of pollution levies: air
    emissions and wastewater discharges that exceed the established standard, and violations of
    environmental pollution control laws and regulations. Most of the violations are for falsely
    reporting emission and discharge levels. Collections amounted to RMB 37.9 million in 1997,
    dropped to a low of RMB 26.9 million in 1999, and rose to RMB 65.5 million in 2001.

     Air quality standards for lead and polycyclic hydrocarbons. National ambient air
    quality standards for these substances became law at the end of 1996. A monitoring plan
    prepared by CEPB was approved by the Bank in 1998. Because of equipment procurement
    delays, the required monitoring equipment was not procured until late 2001. It is now in
    operation.

     The municipal industrial pollution control plan could not be prepared because one
    year of data is needed from the monitoring equipment to be financed under the project's
    technical assistance component. Procurement delays resulted in a major setback to the
    timetable for preparing the plan. The necessary monitoring equipment is now in operation,
    and CMG should be able to move forward with the preparation of the plan.

The Iron and Steel Sector Pollution Control Action Plan consisted of eight high priority
actions, described below, to be taken by CISGC and CSSC to significantly reduce pollution from
Chongqing's most polluting industry, iron and steel. All steel industry pollution control priorities
have been completed. For priorities four and five, the plan's expectations were exceeded because
the polluting facilities were closed down rather than being equipped with pollution control
equipment.

     Priority 1. A CISGC subsidiary, Zhongxing Industrial and Commercial Company (ZICC),
    was to close down its steel plant at Jiangbei. This was done, except for a steel pipe rolling
    mill powered by natural gas, which is producing about 10,000 tons of steel annually. The
    plant is still operating because CISGC's plans to sell the site for more appropriate urban
    development have been delayed. As the plant has a negligible impact on air quality, the
    project's objective of effectively eliminating air pollution at the Jiangbei plant has been met,
    and is being confirmed by monitoring tests required to meet the project's development
    objectives (see also Table 4.1 for achievements).




                                                 - 11 -

     Priority 2. CSSC had 10 highly polluting EAFs at its Shapingba plant. It installed dust
    control equipment on two EAFs, and closed down the other eight EAFs, the last two in 2002.

     Priority 3. Construction of a de-sulfurization plant at CISGC's Dadukou plant was
    completed at the end of 2001.

     Priority 4. Rather than install pollution control equipment on its Shuangbei rolling mill,
    CSSC closed it down in 2000.

     Priority 5. CISGC had planned to install dust control equipment on its Chang Shou iron
    alloy plant. However, the plant was closed in 1997. Part of the building is now being used to
    manufacture aluminum contacts for integrated circuits. This work will continue until 2005,
    when the site will be vacated prior to its being submerged by the reservoir for the Three
    Gorges Dam.

     Priority 6. Dust control equipment at CSSC's Shuangbei Refractory Plant was installed in
    2000.

     Priority 7. Dust control equipment on CISGC's blast furnace at Jiang Jin was installed in
    1998.

     Priority 8. A wastewater treatment system at CISGC's Ba Lan Seamless Pipe Plant was
    installed in 1999.

Part B: Industrial Relocation and Restructuring

The project did not achieve its physical output objective of assisting CISGC and CSSC to
restructure their steel making facilities by constructing modern, non-polluting steel plants, which
were expected to have enabled them to compete successfully in more specialized and quality
conscious steel markets. CISGC subsequently built a high speed wire and rod mill with a loan
from the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China. CSSC did not obtain financing for its own
expansion plans. The project also did not achieve its goal of providing financing through a
line-of-credit as a pilot program to assist non-state industrial enterprises to restructure and clean
up their productive facilities. The reasons why Bank financing was not used are discussed in
Section 3.4.

Part C: Line of Credit

Financing for this component was cancelled as discussed in Section 3.4.

Part D: Institutional Strengthening

Technical assistance to CEPB involved both consultant services and equipment to enable it to
upgrade its monitoring and regulatory capability. The success of Part D is rated satisfactory.
Consultant services were provided according to schedule, but procurement of equipment fell far



                                                 - 12 -

behind the schedule anticipated in the SAR. Cancellation of technical assistance to be provided
under the project to the CLB is discussed in Section 3.4. Bank funds were also not utilized to
provide technical assistance to the Chongqing State Asset Management Bureau. However, the
study recommended by the Bank was financed by CMG, prepared by consultants, and utilized as a
guideline by CMG when it transformed municipal line bureaus into state asset management
companies.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At appraisal, financial projections, economic rates of return and sensitivity tests were prepared for
CISGC and CSSC. Since the steel plant restructuring and relocation component was cancelled,
no new estimates for these companies were prepared.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Similarly, the SAR gave financial rates of return for the two steel companies under alternative
scenarios. With the cancellation of Part B of the project, a re-calculation of these returns is not
meaningful.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional impact is rated modest.

The project played a major role in helping CMG to define, develop and implement environmental
policy initiatives, under the overall direction of the mayor's office leading group and coordinated
by the Chongqing Planning Commission (CPC). Policy instruments developed by project
stakeholders and Bank staff were an Economic Reform Agenda and Action Plan, an
Environmental Regulatory Reform Program and an Action Plan, and an Iron and Steel Sector
Pollution Control Action Plan. Highly successful implementation of these plans, along with other
actions taken by CMG, resulted in a marked decrease in air pollution in the municipality.

The project was also able to provide significant institutional support to CEPB. Nationwide
cutbacks in government staff, plus the greatly expanded workload resulting from the doubling in
size of Chongqing municipality in 1997, put enormous pressure on CEPB to carry out its
responsibilities. In spite of these difficulties, CEPB fully reached all targets under the four priority
actions identified by the project to improve CEPB's pollution monitoring, regulation and control.
The project also enabled CEPB to become more effective by automating and systematizing its air
pollution monitoring, by providing mobile rapid-response point source monitoring equipment, and
by developing a management system for solid and hazardous waste disposal.

Through the project preparation process and the challenges brought on by implementation, CPC
was significantly strengthened in terms of its project development and management capacity. This
increased capacity allowed CPC to contribute meaningfully to the preparation and implementation
of the Chongqing Urban Environment Project (CUEP: Ln. 4561-CHA, approved in FY00),
which supports a major environmental protection program for water and wastewater. CPC is
now in the midst of preparing a proposed small infrastructure improvement program for
Chongqing's peri-urban areas.




                                                  - 13 -

The Bank's attempt to strengthen CLB's capability to deal with Chongqing's unemployment
problem was less successful. During project identification, the Bank concluded that redundant
labor was going to be CMG's number one SOE reform problem. CMG did not agree, but at the
Bank's insistence, did agree to include a small amount in the project for redundant labor
re-training and re-employment. The magnitude of the labor problem became clear to CMG
officials only in 1997, when laid-off workers in Chongqing reached 440,000. CLB asked the
Bank to use $10 million from the project's unallocated funds and to increase the allocation for this
component from $630,000 to $10,630,000. However, as the Bank had temporarily stopped
further work on the project, this request was not acted upon for about one year. In the meantime,
CLB had decided to use local currency financing instead.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The East Asia financial crisis of 1997-1998 resulted in a slowdown in economic activity in
China, while savings rates remained high. Banks were, therefore, very liquid, and by 1999, local
currency financing had become widely available at lower interest rates than World Bank lending.
In addition, such loans carried less conditionalities and less stringent procurement requirements.
Such financing became available at a time when CMG's discussions with the Bank over
re-designing the CISGC and CLB sub-components had become protracted and had halted project
implementation. Under the circumstances, the Borrower decided to seek local currency financing
for the new CISGC steel mill rather than use Bank funds.

Lengthy procedures. Lengthy Bank preparation and appraisal procedures, such as carrying out
studies necessary to prepare the project and to determine the feasibility of sub-borrowers may not
be appropriate for projects in dynamic sectors like industry. This is especially true for an
economy in transition, as is the case in China. Opening up the economy made it much more
dynamic, and subject to a fast changing competitive situation. In addition, SOE sub-borrowers
under intense competitive pressures are less likely to be able to meet financial covenants, as was
the case for CISGC and CSSC.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Changes in land use policy. Originally, CSSC was to relocate to a new site known as Jinkou
Farm. However, changes in government policy prohibiting the urbanization of agricultural land
and not allowing further increases in basic steel production, halted implementation of the
industrial relocation component and required its redesign.

SOE reform moved considerably more slowly and cautiously than was anticipated during project
preparation. CMG's Economic Policy Statement of December 11, 1995 has the objective of
establishing the basic framework for a socialist market economy by 1998. This included
establishing a modern enterprise system in which enterprise governance structures gave managers
full authority to operate with autonomy in decision-making, enterprises were subject to hard fiscal
and budgetary constraints, and government would separate itself from the commercial, productive
functions of enterprises. It was not until 1997 that SOEs were facing real and intense competition
for the first time and, with sharply reduced revenues, were unable to meet their financial
commitments to banks, tax authorities or even their own payrolls and pensions. Competition



                                                     - 14 -

became so fierce that the central government protected key SOEs from the full impact of
competitive forces by continuing to subsidize core SOE group companies. Provincial
governments maintained trade barriers to protect SOEs under their jurisdictions. Subsidies were
seen by the government as still necessary to keep SOEs operating and keep redundant workers on
the payroll. CISGC and CSSC received financial assistance from the Government, either directly
as loans from state banks and non-Bank financing entities, or indirectly through debt:equity swaps
and interest rate subsidies. In addition, CSSC had to lay off 85 percent of its workforce (16,000
workers), and until these workers found employment elsewhere, they received a subsistence
stipend from the Government.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
CEPB's inexperience in Bank and Chinese procurement procedures, and poor internal controls
over processing and authorizing procurement documents, led to major delays in procuring
pollution monitoring and laboratory equipment. To be fair, CEPB claims that this was due
principally to a factor outside its control  staff down-sizing imposed by the government, which
resulted in high staff turnover, reduced the number of staff working on procurement and required
the hiring of part-time staff. Nevertheless, it was up to CMG to make sure that CEPB was given
the resources needed to implement the project, and it was up to CEPB management to ensure that
staff were trained in their respective responsibilities, so that CEPB could meet its project
commitments.

In contrast, the Bank's ICB procurement procedures for the LOC component were cumbersome
and time-consuming and may have contributed to non-completion of the component. In addition,
requiring industrial sub-borrowers to assume the foreign exchange risk places an unacceptable
burden of uncertainty on these companies.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Compared to the original appraisal project cost estimate of $478.1 million, actual project costs
amounted to a mere $22.1 million, as shown in Annex 2. After cancellations, Bank financing,
totaling $3.9 million, was limited to the environmental monitoring component of the project (see
Annex 2). The project closing date was extended from December 31, 2002 to June 30, 2003 to
enable delivery and installation of environmental pollution control equipment. (Delays were
attributed to the SARS outbreak.)

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated likely.

Environmental policy agenda. The project's environmental benefits are very likely to be
sustained. All the environmental pollution control targets supported by the project have been
substantially met except one (Section 4.2). The institutional strengthening of CEPB is a work in
progress. When Chongqing municipality doubled in size, so did CEPB's responsibilities, while
Chongqing, like local governments all over China, was downsizing. CEPB has had to rely on
part-time staff to fill in the gaps in personnel. CMG needs to re-assess the staffing situation, and
determine what steps need to be taken to enable CEPB to continue to carry out its mission.
CEPB's staffing situation is being monitored through the Bank's participation in the ongoing


                                                    - 15 -

CUEP.

CISGC and CSSC. Sustainability of the two steel companies is no longer being supported by
Bank financing. The question remains whether or not they will be survivors in the competitive
winnowing taking place in China's socialist market economy. The government seems determined
to ensure they will be. Like most SOEs in traditional industries, both CISGC and CSSC have had
difficulty adjusting to increased competition and still depend upon government assistance to
maintain financial viability and creditworthiness (Section 5.2). CSSC became a CISGC subsidiary
in 2000. With the recent burgeoning demand for steel in China and elsewhere, sustainability of
the company has taken a much more favorable outlook.

Environmental Pollution Control. When this project was identified, Chongqing municipality
had what were said to be the highest levels of sulfur dioxide atmospheric pollution in the world, as
well as high concentrations of small particulate matter that were extremely hazardous to human
health. These pollution levels were the result of decades of fast growing energy use fueled by
high sulfur coal, and the result of economic growth being given priority over pollution control.
Eventually CMG became convinced that growth must be environmentally sustainable, if long-term
damage to the environment and to the inhabitants of Chongqing was to be avoided. The project,
therefore, focused on controlling air pollution as the number one environmental problem.

In the past two years, CMG has embarked on a major effort to bring urban pollution under
control. It is presently converting or closing down all coal-fired boilers with a capacity of ten tons
of steam per hour or less, and is requiring larger boilers to install de-sulfurization equipment.
With the support of the Bank under this project, it closed down the polluting facilities of its most
polluting industry, iron and steel. It is also closing down all coal-fired electricity generating plants
below 50 megawatts capacity, and requiring larger generating plants to install de-sulfurization
equipment. In 2000, CMG was able to reduce city-wide sulfur dioxide emissions by 50,000 tons.
Moreover, pollution control standards are being much more rigorously enforced, supported by the
project's environmental regulatory enforcement action plan. Chongqing is also one of the first
cities to begin to deal with solid and toxic waste control and disposal because the project helped
CMG to develop a management system for site selection, disposal and storage of such wastes.

Further support for urban environment improvement in Chongqing is being provided by the
CUEP. This project focuses on improving urban environmental services to reduce environmental
degradation of its water and land resources; providing an adequate supply of safe water to
Chongqing's growing urban population and economy; maintaining water quality at levels
compatible with the needs of the wider Yangtze River basin; and managing and conserving
historical sites. CEPB is getting technical assistance, including development of an environmental
MIS, through this project. Another project to improve infrastructure in Chongqing's smaller
towns is under preparation.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Since most of the physical parts of the project were cancelled, no operational transition
arrangements were required.




                                                  - 16 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during identification and preparation was satisfactory. The Bank worked
closely with CMG to ensure that the project became an integral part of the municipality's
economic reform program. A great deal of attention was paid to designing joint policy initiatives
that would lay the foundation for a broadly based program to reform industrial enterprises and
clean up industrial pollution. The investment components were designed to support these policy
initiatives.

Project preparation was a lengthy process, as it was Chongqing's first experience with the Bank,
and it was necessary to carry out studies to determine how the project could enhance
Chongqing's environmental pollution control strategy. Preparation was delayed when the original
engineering consultants' feasibility study for the CISGC and CSSC investments was found to be
unsatisfactory, and the study had to be re-done by CISGC, CSSC and Chongqing Iron and Steel
Design Institute with the assistance of the Bank. Preparation was further complicated when Bank
management took the position that pollution control objectives should be paramount in the
project. Initially, the project as identified, combined both enterprise reform and pollution control
objectives as integral parts to achieving environmentally sustainable development. Both the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) and CMG at first expressed some reservations about the project's
refocus, which primarily impacted on eligibility criteria of industrial enterprises looking to be
assisted by the RAF. It meant that enterprises would be ranked according to the severity of their
pollution problems prior to being ranked on their technical, financial and economic merits. The
placing of policy considerations above commercial ones may have contributed to the cancellation
of this component.

The Bank's performance in appraisal is satisfactory, as borne out in the satisfactory rating for
quality at entry as described in section 3.5.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance is rated satisfactory except for an about two-year period (1999-2000)
when project implementation was halted. The SAR recommended intense supervision during
initial implementation, and in 1997-1998, two supervision missions did visit Chongqing each year.
Bank supervision was satisfactory from 1997 through mid-1999. However, after the May 1999
supervision mission, the Bank decided to temporarily halt project implementation, and no further
supervision missions took place until June 2001, although there were brief missions to discuss
specific issues. During this time, changes in task management negatively affected continuity of
project supervision. The SAR projected that 13 supervision missions should be carried out over
the life of the project. Nine took place in view of the events described earlier. All told, the
project had six different task managers.

The Bank's request that CISGC prepare a satisfactory financial restructuring plan, which would
include a commitment from CMG to provide the equity required by the plan, was reasonable. In
light of the company's precarious financial situation, this request was justified; however, it
appears to have been made without prior consultation with Chinese authorities. Moreover, the



                                                 - 17 -

Bank's subsequent insistence that the project could not continue without either a cancellation of
the CISGC component or a restructuring of the company followed by a full re-appraisal of
CISGC by the Bank, would have caused significant delays in project implementation and in
hindsight appears onerous.

During the pause in implementation between 1999 and 2000, the Chongqing vice mayor in charge
of this project, the vice director of the Chongqing Planning Commission and the vice director of
MOF's international department, urged the Bank to allow the CLB component to be
implemented. The Bank delayed a response to what could be termed an unreasonably long period
of time (over one year), by which time developments in the financial markets had rendered the
Borrower's request moot. In fact, the Bank-imposed abeyance of project implementation
effectively ended further work on the CLB component.

During this hiatus period, the project had a total of three task managers, none of whom carried
out a formal supervision mission. Work on the project on the part of the Bank continued in
March 2000, when a new task manager, who was a pension specialist, visited Chongqing to
review a feasibility study for a social security MIS prepared by CLB. The study proposed
designing an MIS that would include the pension system, health insurance, unemployment
insurance, insurance coverage for work-related injury and maternity leave payments. The Bank
mission was favorably impressed with the study's objectives and strategy for achieving them, and
expressed the Bank's desire to support this initiative under the project. After some discussion,
CLB decided not to ask for the Bank's assistance because local currency financing had become
available at lower interest rates.

The Bank's supervision from mid-2000 to closing in 2003 was again satisfactory. When the
project was transferred to the urban development unit in late FY01, the urban staff recognized the
importance of completing implementation of the economic reform and environmental pollution
control action plans as well as the environmental regulatory reform program and action plans,
relating to objectives (a) and (b) of the project. A formal supervision mission was mounted in
June 2001. The June 2001 mission found that under the Steel Sector Pollution Control Action
Plan, CISGC would meet all its goals by the end of 2001 (it did), while CSSC would not complete
its program until 2003 (it did). Enforcement of pollution control regulations by CEPB under the
environmental regulatory reform program was on schedule and expected to reach its full targets
by 2002 (it did). CMG had exceeded project expectations by closing down or installing pollution
control equipment on all electrical generation plants (the largest source of air pollution in
Chongqing), and by requiring all coal-fired boilers to either install pollution control equipment or
find an alternative energy source. However, preparation of a sector-wide industrial pollution
control plan was delayed by slow procurement of pollution monitoring equipment (equipment was
in place and monitoring began in mid-2002).

With the project's transfer to the urban unit in 2001, the urban unit worked closely with CMG to
complete the remaining components, in conjunction with implementation of the CUEP, which
became effective in April 2001. This strengthened relationship is continuing with preparation of a
proposed infrastructure improvement project for Chongqing's peri-urban areas.




                                                  - 18 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory with reservations. From identification through
appraisal as well as during the early and latter phases of implementation, Bank performance was
satisfactory. However, between 1999-2001, when the Bank temporarily halted project
implementation, the Bank did not succeed in promoting a constructive and proactive dialogue
with the Borrower on how to overcome the financial constraints of CISGC.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
CMG was fully committed to the project, and Borrower performance was satisfactory. Strong
ownership at the local level was particularly noteworthy given the complexity of the project and
because this was Chongqing's first experience with the Bank. A Leading Group under a Vice
Mayor was established to provide the necessary political support, and a project management
office was established under the direction of the Chongqing Planning Commission (CPC).
Chongqing prepared an Economic Policy Statement, and worked actively with the Bank to
develop a municipal Economic Reform Agenda and Action Plan, which was included in the
project and environmental action plans and became part of CMG's own policy reform agenda.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Despite lack of supervision by the Bank from mid-1999 to mid-2001, the Borrower's strong
commitment to carry out its environmental pollution control policy reform program enabled it to
make satisfactory progress in implementing the project's policy agenda and action plans. CMG
was less successful in carrying out its SOE reform objectives. Government subsidies to SOEs
have continued, and while government administered mergers ensure the survival of weaker
enterprises, they pose a threat to the financial viability of the group (See section 5.2).

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The highly successful implementation of CMG's Environmental Regulatory Reform Program and
Action Plan and the Iron and Steel Sector Pollution Control Action Plan was due to excellent
coordination by CPC and excellent implementation by CEPB, CISGC and CSSC. Procurement
for the environmental monitoring equipment by CEPB was less than satisfactory, and the project's
closing date had to be extended for six months to enable procurement, delivery and installation to
be completed. Because of the Loan cancellations, the performances of CLB, CISGC and CSSC
have not been rated. The overall performance rating of implementing agencies is satisfactory.

The performance of the Chongqing PMO was also satisfactory. This office continues to maintain
close contact with the Bank as part of the follow-on CUEP. All audit reports were prepared in a
satisfactory and timely manner.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's performance in carrying out the objectives of this project is rated satisfactory,
and its commitment to the project was clear when it continued to fulfill the project's policy agenda
even after most of the investment had been cancelled.

8. Lessons Learned

Bank Procedures and Covenants. Lengthy Bank preparation and appraisal procedures,



                                                 - 19 -

entailing studies necessary to prepare the project and to determine the feasibility of
sub-borrowers, are not appropriate for projects in dynamic sectors such as industry. This is
especially true for an economy in transition, as is the case in China. Opening up the economy
made it much more dynamic and subject to a fast changing competitive situation. In addition,
SOE sub-borrowers under intense competitive pressure are less likely to be able to meet financial
covenants, as was the case for CISGC and CSSC.

Under the LOC component, both the Bank and the Borrower needed to be assured that the
sub-borrowers would be creditworthy and have a satisfactory business plan, with a clear market
justification for the product to be financed. At the same time, the terms of such financing ought
to be responsive to changing competitive conditions and the dynamics of particular product
markets. Under these circumstances, the Bank's ICB procurement procedures were overly
cumbersome. International Shopping may have been the preferable alternative. In addition,
requiring sub-borrowers to assume the foreign exchange risk places an unacceptable burden on
them, especially if the sub-borrower does not have the experience or sophistication to hedge
against such a risk. This, again, is particularly the case in China, where almost all SOEs are
already far too heavily in debt.

Procurement. CEPB's original procurement plan was prepared in 1997 and revised in 1999.
Actual procurement lagged far behind plan targets. Procurement was delayed principally due to
the following factors: (a) lack of sufficient understanding by the Borrower and its agencies of
Bank procurement procedures; and (b) CEPB's nebulous internal procedures for reviewing and
approving bid documents. This is reflected in the time required to obtain internal clearances and
signatures of bid documents, which can take months to complete. CEPB has also had difficulties
working with tendering companies and in following Chinese government procedures, which
resulted in excessively lengthy reviews by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. CEPB says this was
mainly due to staff turnover resulting from the government's own reduction in force program of
1998-2000. Nevertheless, CEPB clearly needs to upgrade its management of the procurement
process and to train and familiarize staff with both government and Bank procurement
procedures. This issue continues to be improved and monitored by the Bank under CUEP.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

    9.1 Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
    The decision by the Central Government on establishing China's market economy system and
    its increasing emphasis on a social and economic sustainable development provided a policy
    promotion and a favorable social, political and macroeconomic background for achieving the
    Project's objectives  pollution control and reform. The current social and economic policies
    adopted by Chongqing Government, including its environmental policies and regulatory
    regime, as well as the reform plans, are highly conformed with the project objectives designed,
    especially those concerning urban pollution control strategy, environmental policies, reform of
    SOEs, non-SOE economy development, deployment of surplus labor force, establishment of



                                                  - 20 -

social security system, housing policy reform, change of government function, etc..

Project management effectiveness. Chongqing set up a Project Leading Group headed by a
responsible Vice Mayor with CPMO as its daily coordinating and management agency
equipped with qualified staffing. In addition, in relevant government agencies and sub-project
implementation units, responsibilities were clearly defined and qualified staff were in positions,
which created an institutional base for effective management and implementation.
Effectiveness stemming from intensified training, foreign consultation activities, and constant
knowledge replenishing on the Bank's principles and procedures help to quicken the
implementation. Normal functioning of relevant government agencies, implementation
agencies and external monitoring agencies, and coordination among them reduced the
complexity in project preparation and implementation.

Close communications and friendly cooperation with the Bank's staff. Good understanding,
timely communications and mutual-trust help to eliminate conflicts during project preparation
and implementation. To achieve this end, both the heading officials of local PMO and the task
managers from the Bank could play decisive roles. The relation and cooperation between
CPMO and the staff of the Bank were very satisfactory.

9.2 Factors Outside Government or Implementation Agency Control
Shift of State policy focus. CSSC had to give up its original plan to acquire a new land in a
distant rural area for re-locate production facility owing to the Central Government's
increasing strong emphasis on protection of rural farm land, and had to depend on its existing
production site which is in the urban area of Shapingba District. This caused more difficulties
in implementation.

Changes in economic policies. With China's rapid development in the direction towards
market economy, the traditional interference in competitive industrial sectors by both the
Central and local governments were greatly lessened, SOEs like CSSC and CISGC gradually
received less and less preferential support from the government. They had to face a new
situation in which they were equally treated and selected by the market with those non-SOE
enterprises. Besides, their own poor performance and financial conditions proved to be not
viable for the loan.

Changes in market situation. Under commodity economy, market changes very rapidly, which
makes enterprises' decisions more difficult. CISGC's constant changes, after the effectiveness
of the Loan Agreement, on its original project plans reflected its reluctance in decision-making
in response to such changes. A reform and the rapid commercialization process within
China's banking sector forced the local banks participating in the Line of Credit to take a very
prudent and cautious attitude towards the selection of projects for relending. In such a
transition period from planned economy to market economy, the three local banks, facing a
situation under which they had been strongly requested by both the Bank and their
Headquarters to operate with commercial principles; the local government made it clear that it
would neither interfere with the banks' autonomy nor provide any form of financial guarantee
to ensure the payback of LOC, finally chose a very conservative but safe policy  withdrawal
from LOC after their judgment on their own abilities to control risks and their consideration



                                             - 21 -

on poor performances by those majority candidate enterprises.

Slowness in project implementation caused by the strict project appraisal and procurement
procedures. A timely response to changes in market demand is always decisive for industrial
competitive sectors. A over-heavy complexity of project cycle, in this sense, means a loss of
market opportunities, moreover, it also means a give-up of traditional familiarity and
mutual-trust with those known clients as long established purchasing sources, which limited
the autonomy of enterprises in free selection of clients and commodities. Some candidate
enterprises, especially those financially sound private companies, finally withdrew from LOC
and turned to local banks for loans since the local banks did not impose much limitations. "I'm
applying for my loan, not my boss "said by a private entrepreneur expressed such a feeling. It
seems that the Bank's loan is more applicable to projects to be financed publicly or by
governments, not for projects in competitive sector or to be financed by privates.

Sustainability of the Project

9.3 China's macro-economic and environmental reform policies contribute to the
sustainability of the project.
The adoption of market economy development model and strong commitments by both
Central and local government to protect environment contributed institutionally to the
sustainability and acted as incentives to gain a longer life cycle for project objectives. A
change of governments' policy, both Central and local, from traditional focus on economic
development onto a combined healthy development of both economy and environment make
such sustainability more realistic. Accelerated reform in legal and regulatory system provide a
long term possibility for such a sustainability. New laws and regulations binding economic
activities compelled an increasing conformity with environmental policy.

9.4 A policy of further opening to outside world make the sustainability more close to
international practices.
With more than 20 years of reform and opening policies, the performances of government and
enterprises began to follow international practices. The Bank's principles and project
procedures were more known, familiar with and accepted by government agencies and
enterprises. Especially on institutional matters, the locals gradually realized that the
sustainability created by capital investment must be strengthened and guaranteed by
institutional arrangement. Besides, more sustainable effects brought about by institutional
innovation can be expected, as in the case of this project.

Performance of the Bank

9.5 Satisfactory Performance in Project Objective Design and Preparation
  a. Combination of investment projects with policy and institutional reform;
  b. More emphasis on environment protection and sustainability;
  c. Far-sighted objective designing on surplus labor deployment, SOE reform, state assets
     management, environmental regulatory reform, social security system, etc., some of
     which soon became social and economic focuses in the late coming years.

 9.6 Satisfactory Performance of Bank Staff in Project Implementation


                                             - 22 -

  a. Devoted working efforts and hard working spirits of the Bank's staff;
  b. Realistic attitude towards variations and adjustments;
  c. Equal and friendly relation, mutual-trust and good cooperation with local agencies and
      staff;
  d. Rich professional knowledge and experiences;
  e. Constant communication, guidance and timely feedback with CPMO on progress and
      relevant issues .

9.7 Performance to be Improved
  a. Shortcomings in designing and combination of project objectives:
  b. Over-emphasis on achieving multi-objectives in a specific project and a neglect on the
     potential conflicts, which might arise among those objectives. For example, a
     combination of public pollution control policy (public interest pursuit) with the
     commercial operation by commercial banks (profit maximization pursuit), although very
     optimistic in theory, is not realistic in practice.
  c. In designing the project selection criteria for LOC, improper inclusion of pollution control
     as the top priority for selection of candidate applicants resulted in a controversy to local
     banks' principles of commercialization and efficiency. In fact, polluting enterprises were
     often those which financially were also poor. Consequently, the relending banks felt
     reluctant to lend to them. The final withdrawal of the local banks from LOC partially
     resulted from this.

Performance of the Borrower

9.8 Satisfactory Performance
  a. High importance to the project attached by both Central and local governments;
  b. Effective project management and qualified management staff;
  c. Supporting policies and administrative measures by the local government to strengthen
     the management and implementation of the project (e.g. the Mayor's Order on
     Implementation of Levy System), and relevant institutional reform and adjustments fitting
     with the designed project objectives;
  d. Full communication and cooperation with the Bank and its staff;
  e. Adherence to market principles by Chongqing Government, and its non-interference with
     autonomy of both the local banks and enterprises, equal treatment to SOEs and
     non-SOEs in operation;
  f. Full implementation of government commitments in the process of the project and in
     following the Bank's principles and procedures.

9.9 Performance to be Improved
  a. In addition to policy constraints, CSSC's own poor financial condition could not meet
     credit requirement;
  b. Constant changes in project plan by CISGC reflected an inadequacy in project
     preparation and market research;
  c. The withdrawal by local banks from LOC shows their uncertainty or less ability to
     control risks.




                                               - 23 -

    9.10 Evaluation on Project Implementation
      a. The policy reform objectives and reform action plan specified in project SAR have been
          mostly achieved.
      b. The relocation of CSSC and CISGC specified in project SAR hasn't been implemented.
      c. The line-of-credit component specified in project SAR hasn't been implemented.
      d. The industrial pollution control objectives and environmental regulatory enforcement
          action plan specified in project SAR have been mostly achieved.

    9.11 Lessons Learned

    Good policy environment is the pre-condition for achieving some of the project objectives.
    The successful achievement of most of the environment and economic reform objectives
    depended on the overall policy reform by both Central and local governments. The
    commitment and coordination by government contributed positively to the realization of
    objectives. Good management and qualified management staff proved to be an organization
    base. The project objectives designed are in conformity with actual policy and regulatory
    reform trend. The close cooperation between the World Bank and Chongqing Municipality
    has promoted the realization of project objectives. The capital investment behaviors should
    have the policy and institutional reform objective as its guidance. The achievement of most of
    the objectives on economic reform agenda and objectives of pollution control proved: (1)
    capital investment was a necessary condition to achieve a success of a project's objective, but
    not the full condition for this end; (2) some objectives could also be achieved through means
    of institutional and policy arrangement with, or even necessarily without large capital input.

    The Bank's loan, including most of its procedures, in its nature, is more applicable to public or
    government infrastructure projects rather than those projects in competitive sectors. In
    designing project objectives, especially in designing multi-objectives, attention should be given
    to the potential conflicts among those objectives. International consultants should look for
    right source for information. For example, one firm, when it first started its consulting work
    in Chongqing, always over-emphasized its autonomy and independence, and rejected several
    times the opinions by CPMO and relevant agencies on the reliability of financial statements
    provided by some candidate enterprises. Consequently, the majority of the 10 feasibility
    studies prepared by this firm were finally turned down by the relending banks.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information




                                                - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                        TABLE 1: DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE INDICATORS
                            Ambient air quality: micrograms of total suspended dust particles (TSP)
                                                     per normal cubic meter (uNm3)



            OBJECTIVE A                             1995         1996     1997      1998     1999         2000        2001    2002


            Shapingba District                      570          310      300       290      330          310         270     260

            Jiangbei District                       520          310      330       260      200          290         240     260



            Dadukou District                        360          250      260       220      220          210         240     290

            Jinkou Farm                             not applicable (see section 5.2 on prohibition of agricultural land for
                                                    industrial   development)




    TABLE 2: INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (APPRAISAL ESTIMATE)

                                                                1997        1998       1999          2000            2001      2002


OBJECTIVE A: CSSC and CISCG/ZICC
Net profit before taxes as % of total sales revenue                                 Measured against performance indicators in
                                                                                        5-year rolling financial projections
debt-to-equity ratio                                           70:30
debt service coverage                                            1:2

OBJECTIVE B: CEPB
% of priority polluting firms reporting/monitored for              20         35         55              75             90      100
  SO2 emissions
% of registered firms completing EIAs                              75         85         95            100            100       100
% cumulative increase in pollution levy revenues                   10         20         30              40             50       60
  (based on all pollutants)
% of firms completing "third synchronizsation" approval            30         50         75            100            100       100

OBJECTIVE C
% line-of-credit commitment                                        50         75        100
% line-of-credit disbursement                                      15         35         65              85           100
% EIA mitigation plan compliance                                  25%
  (as percentage disbursements)
Net profit amount, and as % of sales                                                Measured against performance indicators in
                                                                                         enterprise restructuring plans




                                                                   - 25 -

            TABLE 3: INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (ACTUAL)

                                                          1997    1998   1999    2000    2001    2002

OBJECTIVE A: CSSC and CISCG/ZICC
Net profit before taxes as % of total sales revenue        n/a     n/a    n/a     n/a     n/a     n/a

debt-to-equity ratio                                       70:30   n/a    n/a     n/a     n/a     n/a
debt service coverage                                      1:2     n/a    n/a     n/a     n/a     n/a

OBJECTIVE B: CEPB
% of priority polluting firms reporting/monitoring for
  SO2 emissions                                             70.0    98.0  98.0    100.0   100.0   100.0

% of registered firms completing EIAs           MLP*       100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
                                                C/DLP**     80.0    84.0  86.0      91.4  99.7    100.0
% cumulative increase in pollution levy revenues            30.6    66.2  73.0      89.0  99.0    100.0
  (based on all pollutants)
% of firms completing                           MLP*        97.0    98.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
  "third synchronizsation" approval             C/DLP**     70.0    73.0  94.0      95.7  99.9    100.0

*MLP: municipal level projects
**C/DLP: county or district level projects

OBJECTIVE C:

Not applicable after cancellation of LOC component.




                                                            - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
CSSC Relocation                                            105.85            0.00               0
CISCG Relocation                                            69.04            0.00               0
Line of Credit                                             165.00            0.00               0
Environmental Monitoring System                             27.49          22.06             80.2
Labor Redeployment Center                                    1.06            0.00               0
TA to State Asset Operating Company                          0.75            0.00               0

Total Baseline Cost                                        369.19          22.06
 Physical Contingencies                                     17.48            0.00               0
 Price Contingencies                                        15.71            0.00               0
                        Total Project Costs                402.38          22.06
                          Interest during construction      18.06            0.00            0.00
                  Total Financing Required                 420.44          22.06


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB              NCB               2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.00         66.80        66.80
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          75.60             11.00       39.20         21.50        147.30
                                 (75.60)          (11.00)      (12.40)        (0.00)      (99.00)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         0.50         0.00          0.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.50)         (0.00)       (0.50)
4. Miscellaneous                  20.00             0.00        40.00        128.00        188.00
Credit Line                      (20.00)           (0.00)      (40.00)        (0.00)      (60.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00        10.50         65.00        75.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (10.50)        (0.00)      (10.50)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          95.60             11.00       90.20        281.30        478.10
                                 (95.60)          (11.00)      (63.40)        (0.00)      (170.00)




                                                - 27 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                               3.66               0.00             18.21             0.00             21.87
                                      (3.66)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (3.66)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              0.19             0.00              0.19
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.19)            (0.00)           (0.19)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
Credit Line                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               3.66               0.00             18.40             0.00             22.06
                                      (3.66)             (0.00)            (0.19)            (0.00)           (3.85)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

At appraisal, financial projections, economic rates of return and sensitivity tests were prepared
only for CISGC and CSSC. Since the steel plant restructuring and relocation component was
cancelled, a revised economic analysis for these entities would not be meaninigful.




                                               - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              3/1993                    3    OPERATIONS OFFICERS (2);
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              7/1993                    4    OPERATIONS OFFICERS (2);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ENGINEERS (2)
              10-11/1993                7    OPERATIONS OFFICERS (2);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ENGINEER (1); ENGINEER
                                             (1); PRIVATE SECTOR
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1)
               4/1994                   9    OPERATIONS OFFICERS (2);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYSTS (2); PRIVATE
                                             SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); ENGINEER
                                             (1); LABOR ECONOMIST (1)
               10-11/1994               6    OPERATIONS OFFICER (2);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ENGINEER (2); ENGINEER
                                             (1); PRIVATE SECTOR
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              6/1995                  11     OPERATIONS OFFICERS (4);
                                             ECONOMISTS (2); PRIVATE
                                             SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1); ENGINEER (1);
                                             LABOR ECONOMIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11-12/1995              12     OPERATIONS OFFICERS
                                             (2), SR. ECONOMIST (1),
                                             PR. ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ENGINEER (1), PR.
                                             PRIVATE SECTOR
                                             DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1),
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1), PR. BANKING
                                             SPECIALIST (1), PR.
                                             CHEMICAL ENGINEER
                                             (1), STEEL ENGINEER (1),



                                              - 30 -

                           LABOR ECONOMIST (1),
                           COUNSEL (1),
                           RESETTLEMENT
                           SPECIALST (1)
           4/1996        5 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1),
                           ECONOMIST (1),
                           ENVIRONMENTAL
                           ENGINEER (1), COUNSEL (1),
                           DISBURSEMENT OFFICER (1)

Supervision

           04/12/1997    7 SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER       S    U
                           (1); CONSULTANT (2); PR.
                           FINANANCIAL SPECIALIST
                           (1); PRINCIPAL ENVIR. ENG.
                           (1); PROCUREMENT OFFICER
                           (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                           (1)
           12/22/1997    2 PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL SP       S    U
                           (1); CONSULTANT (1)
           06/04/1998    6 SECTOR MANAGER (1); SR.      S    U
                           INDUSTRIAL ECONOMIST
                           (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                           SPECIALIST (1);
                           CONSULTANT (1);
                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                           PR. FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                           (1)
           11/14/1998    3 PR. FINANCIAL SPECIALIST     S    U
                           (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                           (1); STEEL PLATE
                           SPECIALIST (1)
           05/05/1999    4 OPERATIONS OFFICERS (2);     S    U
                           PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                           CONSULTANT (1)
           03/18/2000    3 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);      S    S
                           PENSION SPECIALIST (1);
                           SOCIAL PROTECTION
                           SPECIALIST (1)
           06/14/2001    3 INDUSTRIAL SECTOR            S    S
                           SPECIALIST (1); ENGINEER
                           (1); PROCUREMENT (1)
           01/19/2002    3 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);      S    S
                           INDUSTRY/FINANCE SPEC.
                           (1); PROCUREMENT (1)

ICR
           6/2002        1 OPERATIONS OFFICER           S    S




                           - 31 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   213.0                          898.3
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         64.2                          105.8
  Supervision                                  111.1                          904.9
  ICR                                           11.0                            36.0
  Total                                        399.3                        1,945.0
Regional direct to full costs mark-up is 25% for prior fiscal years up to 1999.




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report, China, Chongqing Industrial Pollution Control and Reform Project,
Report No. 15387-CHA, May 15, 1996

Loan No. 4045-CHA, Loan Agreement between People's Republic of China and International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, dated December 4, 1996

Loan No. 4045-CHA, Chongqing Project Agreement between International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development and Chongqing Municipality, dated December 4, 1996

Loan No. 4045-CHA, Steel Companies Project Agreement, between International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development and Chongqing Special Steel Company (Group) Limited and
Chongqing Iron and Steel Company (Group) Limited, dated December 4, 1996

Loan No. 4045-CHA, Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement, between International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development and Agricultural Bank of China, and China Merchants Bank
and Everbright Bank of China, dated December 4, 1996

Agreed Minutes of Negotiations between the World Bank and People's Repubic of China, for the
Chongqing Industrial Pollution Control and Reform Project, dated April 26, 1996

Memorandum from the Regional Vice President, authorizing appraisal of the Chongqing
Industrial Pollution Control and Reform Project, dated November 22, 1995

World Bank Supervision Reports for the Chongqing Industrial Pollution Control and Reform
Project, 1997-2002

Correspondence dealing with various cancellations of Loan No. 4045-CHA, 1999-2001

Aide-Memoire, Implementation Completion Mission, January 13-19, 2002




                                             - 35 -

- 36 -

