Document of                 FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2358-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A
SAPH RIJBBFR PROJECT
November 8, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                          CFA franc (CFAF')
THROUGH 1977
US$1.00                                 CFAF 245
CFAF 1,000                             US$4.08
FROM SEPTEMBER 1978 ONWARDS
US$1.00                                CFAF 220
CFAF 1,000                             US$4.55
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I kilometer           2                0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )               0.39 square mile
1 hectare (ha)                         2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                        2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (t)          =            2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
Government:    January 1 to December 31
SAPH:          October 1 to September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
BIDI      Banque Ivoirienne pour le Developpement Industriel
BNDA      Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole
CAA       Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CDC       Commonwealth Development Corporation
CFAF      Communaute Financiere Africaine Franc
CIDT      Compagnie Ivorienne des Textiles
CIMAO     Ciments de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CSSPPA    Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix
des Productions Agricoles
ECOWAS    Economic Community of West African States
IRCA      Institut de Recherches sur le Caoutchouc
SAPH      Societe Africaine de Plantations d'Heveas
SIPH      Societe Indochine de Plantations d'Heveas
SOCATCI   Societe des Caoutchouc de la Cote d'Ivoire
SONAFI    Societe Nationale de Financement
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IVORY COAST
SAPH RUBBER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              The Republic of the Ivory Coast
Amount:                US$7.6 million
Terms:                 17 years, including 4 years of grace at an interest
rate of 7.35 percent per annum
Onlending Terms:       US$0.8 million would be onlent to BNDA at 7.35 percent
per annum plus one percent to cover the foreign exchange
risk.
Project Description:  The Project would be implemented over seven years and
would aim at developing 3,000 ha of smallholding rubber
around Anguededou, Bongo and Toupah; 2,000 ha of a
nucleus industrial estate at Songan and 500 ha of small-
holding in association with this estate. The project
would include the maintenance of these areas during the
project period until they enter into production, and
the setting up of training and extension services for
the participating farmers.
Cost Estimates:                   -----------------IUS$ Million-----------------
Local               Foreign                Total
I. 3,000 ha Smallholder
Development                   3.9                  1.7                   5.6
II. Songan                        5.8                   4.7                 10.5
- 2,000 ha Estate            (5.3)                 (4.5)                (9.8)
- 500 ha Smallholders
Development                (0.5)                (0.2)                 (0.7)
TOTAL BASE COSTS              9.7                  6.4                  16.1
Contingencies                 2.2                   1.5                  3.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          11.9                  7.9                  19.8
(including taxes)
Taxes                         3.7                    -                   3.7
Total Project Costs           8.2                  7.9                  16.1
(net of taxes)



- ii -
Financing Plan:                                      US$ million
IBRD                                                7.6
CDC                                                 3.0
CCCE                                                1.5
Government                                          4.0
Total Project Costs                          16.1
(net of taxes)
Estimated Disbursements:                      FY80       FY81       FY82       FY83
---------(in US$ million)---------
Annual                                   2.3        2.0        1.9         1.4
Cumulative                               2.3        4.3        6.2         7.6
Economic Rate
of Return:             Overall 13 percent
- 3,000 ha smallholder program at Andeguedou, Bongo
and Toupah, 15 percent
= Songan estate, 11 percent
Songan smallholders, 18 percent
Appraisal Report:      No. 2046-IVC of October 27, 1978



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOIMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST FOR A
SAPH RUBBER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Ivory Coast for the equivalent of US$7.6 million
to help finance the SAPH Rubber Project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.35 percent per annum.
The project would be co-financed by the Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC) and the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). The
CDC loan amounting to US$3.0 million equivalent would be at 7.5 percent per
annum over 20 years including 7 years of grace. The CCCE loan amounting
to US$1.5 million equivalent would be at 5.5 percent per annum over 14 years
including 6 years of grace. US$2.6 million of the total financing for the
project, made up of US$0.9 from Government, US$0.8 million from the Bank,
US$0.6 million from CCCE and US$0.3 million from CDC, would be onlent to BNDA.
External funds would be onlent by Government to BNDA at the interest rate
charged by the three co-financiers plus, in the case of the Bank and CDC
loans, one percent to cover the foreign exchange risk borne by Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The Report No. 1147b-IVC "Ivory Coast:  A Basic Economic Report"
was circulated to the Executive Directors in May 1977. Its principal find-
ings and conclusions, updated by a mission which visited the Ivory Coast
in February and April 1978, are incorporated in the following paragraphs.
Annex I provides basic country data.
Past Performance
3.        Throughout the 1960's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew at a high
annual rate of about 8.3 percent; however, during 1971-75, economic growth
slowed to an average of 5.6 percent per annum partly because of the effects
of adverse climatic conditions in the early years of the period and the
impact of worldwide recession, and partly for structural reasons. In 1977,
per capita GNP reached US$710, one of the highest in Africa. The good over-
all performance of the Ivorian economy over the last 17 years has resulted
from a combination of the following factors: large agricultural potential
and early identification by the Ivorian Government of the best opportunities
for developing this potential; liberal Government policies vis-a-vis foreign
1/   Substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report No. P-2266-IVC
for a Second Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project, dated May 11, 1978,
except for some updating.



- 2 -
private investment as well as importation of foreign labor and managerial
talent; and generally adequate public finance performance and availability of
external aid.
4.        Favorable ecological conditions in the southern region give the
Ivory Coast a comparative advantage in the cultivation of tree crops (partic-
ularly cocoa and coffee) and in the exploitation of timber resources. From
the early years of independence, the efforts of the Government were concen-
trated on the agricultural and forestry sectors. Large investments were made
in transport infrastructure to open up new forestry and agricultural areas,
and in agricultural research programs. Adequate guaranteed producer prices
and other incentives were introduced to which a dynamic smallholder sub-sector
has responded well. Government-owned large-scale plantations with outgrower
components were developed for oil and coconut palm. Rapid growth has been
achieved in the production of cotton, pineapple, palm and coconut oil, cocoa
and coffee, for the last two of which the Ivory Coast is now the third largest
producer in the world.
5.        A long period of political stability, combined with the free trans-
ferability of profits and capital, created an aura of confidence abroad
which assured access to foreign capital. However, the necessary technical
skills to foster the planned development were lacking in the country, and the
Ivorian community welcomed the wide variety of foreign managerial and technical
assistance which rapid growth required. A member of the franc area and a
strong supporter of monetary and economic cooperation, the Ivory Coast has
always been willing to welcome new regional institutions; it joined the
Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and has recently helped
promote the CIMAO project, which is the first regional industrial undertaking
involving both French and English-speaking countries in West Africa. An
important feature of this cooperation with neighboring countries, which has
been beneficial to all parties concerned, is the large influx of unskilled
labor from less well endowed Sahelian countries, particularly Upper Volta and
Mali. In 1975, the foreign population of the Ivory Coast (mainly non-Ivorian
Africans) was 1.5 million, i.e. about 22 percent of the country's total of 7
million inhabitants.
6.        The factors mentioned above have enabled the external sector to
grow rapidly, and the value of exports and imports increased more than six
times from 1960 to 1975. The trade balance during this period was positive
and amounted to 14 percent of export earnings from goods. However, the
deficit on non-factor services, workers' remittances and direct investment
income was always large enough so that the current account has never been
in surplus.  The most noticeable aspect of export earnings in recent years
has been the high prices received for coffee which increased by 60 percent in
1976 and a further 120 percent in 1977, and those for cocoa which increased
by 20 percent in 1976 and a further 66 percent in 1977. Total export receipts
more than doubled from 1975 to 1977, when they reached approximately US$2.7
billion. However, merchandise imports increased by 70 percent from 1975 to
1977 to US$2.2 billion, partly in response to the import requirements of the
increased public investment program (see paragraph 7 below). The deficit on
services and transfers also increased at a rapid pace, amounting to more than
US$800 million in 1977, but net capital inflows of approximately US$500 mil-
lion allowed a foreign exchange reserve build-up of US$112 million.



7.        The success of the Ivorian economy is to a substantial extent
attributable to generally sound Government policies regarding public finance
and external aid. The public sector generated savings which, after debt
service, financed about 50 percent of the public investment program. The
level of public investment is projected in the five-year plans (the current
one covers 1976-80) and implemented through a series of rolling three-year
investment programs and annual investment budgets. The 1976-80 Plan called
for public investment of about US$5 billion, the equivalent of about 30
percent of projected GDP (compared to 23 percent during 1971-75). The main
objectives stated in the Plan were to further increase production in developed
regions, develop agriculture in poor Savannah areas, accelerate the opening
up of the Southwest, and substantially increase social services. During
the last two years, however, public investment has increased substantially
beyond what was envisaged in the Plan as funds became available from coffee
and cocoa export receipts and as the country borrowed extensively abroad. New
investments were programmed to expand education and other social services, to
develop sugar production into a major industry, and for a variety of projects
in transportation, energy and other fields. State enterprises have played a
substantial role in this expansion, especially in that portion financed by
external credit. The increased reliance on external capital is reflected in
total external debt (disbursed and undisbursed) which stood at US$1.5 billion
at the end of 1975, US$2.2 billion at end 1976, and US$3.8 billion at end of
1977. The implications of the sharp rise in external public debt are discussed
below (paras. 13 through 16).
Recent Development Issues
8.        To maintain the momentum of recent years and help broaden the access
to the benefits derived from it, the Government will need to persevere with
existing policies designed to diversify the economic base, improve income
distribution, increase the participation of Ivorian nationals in the manage-
ment of the economy, and maintain a public investment program of appropriate
dimensions. Current Government policies are directed with some success to
protecting the export-oriented economy against fluctuations in world market
prices and to promoting more balanced regional development. Agriculture
remains the most important sector, but the share of manufacturing in GDP has
increased from 4 percent in 1960 to 13 percent in 1976. Within agriculture,
the production of new crops such as bananas, pineapples, rubber, cotton,
coconut and palm oil has been encouraged, resulting in a decline of the share
of cocoa and coffee in agricultural exports from 72 percent in 1960 to 51
percent in 1976. In 1977, a year of very high coffee and cocoa prices, these
commodities' share of exports rose to 60 percent. As part of a more balanced
regional development policy, large infrastructure investments are under way in
the Southwest in an effort to develop access to that potentially rich region.
9.        Better income-earning opportunities are being provided for the
population in poor rural areas in the North following the identification
and cultivation of improved varieties of cotton, and the promotion of
ox-drawn methods of farming. Income distribution is being further improved
by increases in agricultural producer prices, implementation of wage poli-
cies which favor the urban poor, and execution of regional investment



- 4 -
programs. As a result, income inequality has diminished in recent years,
with the poorest 40 percent of the population currently receiving about 20
percent of total income.
10.       Progress in "Ivorianization" of capital and labor remains limited.
While agriculture is almost entirely in Ivorian hands, foreign ownership is
still important in forestry, industry and modern commerce. However, educa-
tion and training are given very high priority in the allocation of Government
resources; increasing recognition is given to the employment potential of
the informal sector and the Government is sponsoring a variety of programs
designed to promote the development of small-scale industrial and commercial
enterprises.
11.       These new policy directions are, however, being implemented at some
cost. The development of new products, new sectors, and new regions yields
decreasing returns on investments. For example, agricultural (liversification
is being extended to crops with lower comparative advantage; forest reserves
may be depleted in ten to fifteen years unless costly reforestation programs
are started; the best opportunities for import substitution in industrial
development are becoming exhausted; heavy infrastructure and productive
investments in the potentially rich but sparsely populated Southwest yield
initially low returns; large programs to improve living conditions in the
North and other poor rural areas involve long gestation periods. Finally
the direct and indirect costs of foreign production factors are increasing.
12.       The financial burden of the expanded public investment program
has also increased despite the funding of a large proportion from the ex-
ceptionally large surpluses accumulated in 1976 and 1977 in the stabilization
fund (equivalent to about US$1.5 billion). Thus, the program still relies on
external credit for 40 percent of its funding, about 85 percent of which comes
from private banks and suppliers. This represents a large increase from
previous years. The overall terms and conditions of external public debt are
hardening, reflecting increased reliance on commercial credit, and the grant
element of public and private lending to the public sector declined from 29
percent in 1969 to 8 percent in 1976. The increased costs of development, the
larger scale of investment now being undertaken and envisaged for the future,
and the heavy reliance on foreign commercial credit to fund a major portion of
investment, all point to the necessity of measures to ensure that the limits
of absorptive capacity are not exceeded and that repayment capacity is not
strained. The Government of the Ivory Coast is aware of the situation.
The substantial decrease in external borrowing reported in the first half of
1978 is an encouraging sign of their response to it. Other recent measures
include a much stronger control by the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA)
over the state enterprises' borrowing and investment programs.
Prospects
13.       Provided the Government becomes more selective in determining
investment priorities and limits external borrowing to prudent levels, the
medium- and long-term prospects of the Ivorian economy remain favorable and
an annual rate of growth of about 6 percent is a feasible objective for the
eighties.



- 5 -
14.        The economy has considerable potential for further development
of traditional export crops. Moreover, after large initial investments
have been made, output of new products and development of new regions will
start to yield substantial benefits, and can later be expanded at reasonable
economic cost. The Government is planning to review the system of protec-
tion and tax holidays which has encouraged some marginal import-substitution
industries, and there is scope for expansion of export-oriented processing
of local raw materials. Finally, many aspects of the country's policies
of income distribution (preference for the family-size farm, programs to
increase agricultural productivity in the poorer North, and the promotion of
the informal sector and of small-scale industrial and comnmercial enterprises)
are fully compatible with sustained economic growth.
15.        Despite the fact that exports are expected to perform well in re-
spect of volume, it is unlikely that the high prices for coffee and cocoa
will persist, and therefore export earnings will probably be considerably
less buoyant in the near future than in the past two years despite some
mitigating effects of diversification into export products such as rubber,
pineapples, and industrial products. Imports, however, have increased sub-
stantially and the large deficit on services will remain as long as the
country relies heavily on foreign factors of production with their increas-
ing costs. Thus, pressures on the balance of payments will remain. The
size and financing of the public investment program will be a key element
in determining the extent of these pressures.
16.        The authorities are therefore engaged in a review of new commitments
and indications are that the three-year public investment program 1979-1981
will be essentially limited to available public savings plus official develop-
ment assistance. The aim is to carry out as much as possible of high-priority
plan targets while achieving an external debt structure consistent with the
medium-term balance of payments prospects of the economy. By these means it
should be possible to keep the debt service ratio below 25 percent by the end
of the decade and to maintain the country's creditworthiness for borrowing on
IBRD terms.
17.        Of the total external public debt outstanding at the end of 1977,
19 percent was provided bilaterally by governments, 12 percent by interna-
tional organizations (of which 55 percent by the Bank Group), and 49 percent
by private banks and bond issues, while 20 percent came in thbe fo. of sup-
pliers' credits. More than half of the total capital not supplied by inter-
national organizations came from four countries; France (27 percent), USA
(23 percent), Lebanon (5 percent), and Germany (3 percent). France and the
European Communities remain the principal source of development assistance
in grant form, accounting for about 3 percent of the flow of foreign assis-
tance to the public sector.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
18.        Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in the Ivory Coast started,
lending has expanded rapidly and now includes thirty-two loans totaling
US$441.7 million (including US$14 million from the Third Window) and an IDA



- 6 -
credit of US$7.5 million. Thirteen of these thirty-three operations have
been for agriculture, supporting cotton, cocoa, rubber, oil palm and coconut
development. There were six road projects. The remaining fourteen loans
were for education, telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage and drainage
system, water supply, urban development, tourism development, small- and
medium-scale enterprises, a regional cement project and a regional railway
project. IFC's participation in the Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement
Industriel (US$204,000) was increased in 1974 by a 50 percent stock dividend,
and in April 1978 by another 10,000 shares of a total par value of about
US$204,000. IFC's Board also approved, in 1977, a 10 percent equity invest-
weat, equivalent to about US$880,000, in Etablissement R. Gonfreville (ERG),
the largest textile plant in the country. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of Bank Group operations and notes on the execution of ongoing projects,
with particular reference to those which are encountering problems in execu-
tion and giving rise to delays in disbursements.
19.       The main thrust of the Bank's lending program will continue to be
in the agricultural sector, but focussing less on the traditional export
crops, where Bank involvement has helped create effective institutions.
The Government has recently decided to place more emphasis in the future on
smallholder production, and this policy reorientation is reflected in our
strategy for the agricultural sector which, in the future, will give more
support to smallholders and to integrated rural development projects. The
first examples of this new strategy are the proposed rubber project, mainly
enefitting small farmers, and a rural development project in the Northeast
which has been appraised. This change in policy delayed the effectiveness of
the Bank's fourth loan for oil palm and coconut which aims at preparing about
18,000 ha of industrial estates. However, the institutional rearrangements
have now been finalized and the project is being re-evaluated. The Bank has
also recently appraised a project in the forestry sector, the third most
important foreign exchange earner of the Ivory Coast, aimed at developing
20,000 ha of plantations and strengthening the institutions concerned.
20.       The Bank was closely associated, as executing agency, with the
1969 UNDP Transport Survey of the Ivory Coast, which has served as a basis
for determining future priorities among transport investments. Thus far the
Bank has financed six road projects totaling US$123.3 million. The First
Project was completed in December 1974 with final costs within appraisal
estimates. The OED report dated June 28, 1977 on this project recommended,
inter alia, that more emphasis should be given to road maintenance. This
had been picked up in the Third Highway Project. A follow-up project for
road maintenance with a feeder roads component was approved last December.
The Second Road Project was satisfactorily completed in September 1975, after
an initial delay caused by project modification and subsequent poor work
organization for the construction component. The Third and Fourth Highway



- 7 -
Projects incurred substantial cost overruns which the Government is covering;
otherwise execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Fifth Highway Project
approved by FY76 will contribute to a further improvement of the primary
road network of the country. We are also studying the possibility of extend-
ing a highway sector loan to the Ivory Coast. A railway project, focusing on
the improvement of the Bouake-Petionara section of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou
rail line, renewal of rolling stock, technical assistance, and training, was
approved last fall. A second project to extend the rehabilitation of this
rail line from Petionara to Tafire is now being prepared under the first
project. While the Bank is expected to continue to play a major role in the
transport sector, financing will increasingly be shared with other aid donors.
21.       The education system of the Ivory Coast has not provided the country
with an adequate supply of skilled manpower. The Bank is closely associated
with the Government's efforts to modernize the education system, in particular
at the secondary and vocational levels. Both of the Bank's ongoing projects
have been directed to this end. A third project is being appraised.
22.       The Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project approved in 1975 will
cover the first phase of a ten-year Government program to improve sanitation
in Abidjan. The Board has recently approved a second project which includes
the second phase of the program and studies for the third phase. An urban
development project, primarily aiming to help meet some of Abidjan's low-
income housing and transport needs, was signed in December 1976. With
respect to the smaller towns, the Board approved last year a Secondary
Centers Water Supply Project, and a secondary centers power distribution
project is scheduled for appraisal late this year.
23.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management
in the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing
high priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this
policy the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale enterprises
in 1976. A follow-up project has been appraised. The Bank Group also pro-
vided support for medium-scale enterprises through a local development finance
company and a line of credit for hotel financing and technical assistance in
the tourism sector; a second tourism project is now being appraised. In June
1976 the Bank extended a loan to the Ivory Coast in support of the CIMAO
cement project, which is sponsored jointly by the Governments of Ghana, Ivory
Coast and Togo. CITAC -will utilize limestone deposits in Togo for the
production of clinker for the cement market of the three countries.
24.       The Bank Group's lending in the Ivory Coast has increased steadily
from a yearly average of below US$20 million during the early years to an
average of US$57 million annually in the 1973-78 period. The average annual
lending rate is expected to continue to grow substantially over the next few
years. The Bank Group's share of the Ivory Coast's external debt at the end
of 1977 stood at approximately 10.6 percent (including undisbursed). Its
portion of external debt disbursed is expected to rise from the present 6.4
percent to about 11 percent in the next ten years; its share of total debt
service, at present 3.6 percent, is expected to go up to about 6.0 percent
in the early 1980's.



- 8 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
25.       Agriculture and forestry account for about 50 percent of the coun-
try's gross domestic product, a situation which may persist for many years
to come. Abundant land, good labor supply also consisting of Voltaics and
Malian migrants and generally favorable world markets for its products assured
rapid agricultural growth in the Ivory Coast. About 70 percent of the popula-
tion depends on agriculture and forestry. The estimated value of agricultural
production in 1976 was US$2.1 billion, of which industrial crops accounted for
about US$1.5 billion, food crops US$400 million and livestock US$150 million.
From 1974 through 1976 annual exports averaged US$1.4 billion of which the
three main commodities -- coffee (29 percent), timber (20 percent), and cocoa
(25 percent) -- accounted for about 74 percent.
26.       Until recently the Government has concentrated its efforts on
increasing the area devoted to export crops. But growing urbanization and
the increasing demand for food has drawn the Government's attention more
towards integrated regional development. New programs have been designed
to include food crops in the same areas where export crops are developed.
A case in point is the cotton and food crops program in the Savannah region
which started in 1974 with Bank assistance (Loan 1077-IVC).
27.       More recently the Government announced a number of policy deci-
sions in the agricultural sector.  They w.ere designed to favor smallholder
development, place less reliance on crop-oriented state enterprises and more
emphasis on integrated rural development. This approach is basically sound
and should help to alleviate rural poverty and reduce regional income dis-
parities and slow the urban drift. The Government is planning to use the
existing state enterprises, restructured, to carry out regional development
plans. However, many of the details related to the reshaping of the agricul-
tural sector have not yet been worked out by the Government.
Institutions
28.       Overall development planning is in the hands of the Ministry of
Economy, Finance and Planning, while detailed agricultural development pro-
grams are the responsibility of the Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock,
and Forestry. As mentioned above, the Government is llkely to implement
agricultural projects in the future through regional development agencies.
29.       The Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Productions
Agricoles (CSSPPA) is responsible for carrying out Government agricultural
price support policies. It controls producer prices for main cash crops
such as cotton, cocoa, coffee, palm oil and copra by paying a guaranteed
minimum price fixed annually and by controlling the sale of the commodities
on the world market. Accumulated surpluses of these operations are used to
build reserves for future stabilization activities and for financing part of
the Government investment budget.



- 9 -
30.       The Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Agricole (BNDA), the
main source of agricultural credit, has so far been active in short-term
credit using a line of rediscount with the regional Central Bank (BCEAO).
BNDA has used its equity, and in some cases international funds such as CCCE's
participation in the First Rubber Project and IBRD funds under the two Cocoa
Projects. BNDA is active in establishing branches in the rural areas with
the purpose of dealing directly with farmers and farmers' groups.
31.       Agricultural research is undertaken by several French organizations
under a bilateral agreement. Programs and budgets are reviewed and approved
by the Ministry of Scientific Research, and costs are shared equally by the
two countries. Rubber research is undertaken by the Institut de Recherches sur
le Caoutchouc (IRCA), which acts also as the technical advisor to the Ministry
of Agriculture for the implementation of the rubber development program. IRCA
has been active in the selection of high yielding planting materials, studies
concerning the mineral nutrition of the crop, the development of new tapping
systems and other production techniques. IRCA also operates in Cameroon and
carries out consultancy work in other African countries.
The Rubber Sub-sector
32.       Commercial rubber production started in 1962 when plantings made
in 1955 came into bearing. The total planted area has grown at a modest
rate, reaching about 23,350 ha by the end of 1977. Of this, about 14,300
ha were in production, although only half had reached peak yield. With the
exception of some 300 ha of smallholder plantings, about half of which were
initiated by Government in the Anguededou area in 1968 as a pilot project
presently run by SAPH, all of the country's rubber is grown on estates. A
French company (Compagnie de Caoutchouc et de Pneumatiques - CCP) owns and
operates 2,650 ha; Societe Africaine de Plantations d'Heveas (SAPH), in which
Government is in majority partnership (60 percent), owns another 12,800 ha; and
Government itself owns a further 7,600 ha. Of these, about 5,600 ha have been
planted under the Grand-Bereby Rubber Estate Project (Loan 938-IVC), for the
operation of which Government has secured the services of the Michelin Group
through a management contract. 1/ Another 1,400 ha have been planted at
Anguededou and operated for the account of Government by SAPH on the basis of
management fees; the remaining 600 ha are operated by the Rubber Research
Institute, IRCA.
33.       Overall Government rubber development plans involve:  (a) the com-
pletion of about 700 ha of smallholder rubber in association with the exist-
ing estate at Anguededou; (b) the planting of a 2,000 ha estate and 3,500 ha
of smallholdings in the southeast, which is the subject of this report; and
(c) in the southwest, completion of (i) a 4,500 ha estate at Rapides-Grah,
and (ii) the Bank-assisted Grand-Bereby project which will be extended in
a second phase to 13,500 ha. Further possible developments in the southwest
might be about 15,000 ha in the Lower Cavally area (at Grabo) some of which
could be smallholder operated. If this projected development program is com-
pleted in full, it would increase the country's rubber area to about 60,000
ha by 1985. This area would have an annual production potential of nearly
1/   7,000 ha were planted mid-1978.



- 10 -
110,000 tons by the turn of the century although by 1985 the production would
amount to only about 30,000 tons, most of which would be exported. The latter
tonnage would represent less than one percent of projected world natural
rubber exports for that year. In 1977, total rubber production in the
Ivory Coast amounted to about 18,000 tons, 90 percent of which was exported,
representing 0.6 percent of world natural rubber trade.
Bank Lending in the Rubber Sector
34.       The proposed project would be the third Bank operation in the rubber
sector; the first two operations covered the creation of a rubber estate in
Grand-Bereby, in the southwest. The first project (Loan 938-IVC) originally
envisaged the planting of 13,500 ha of rubber between 1972 and 1979 in Grand-
Bereby. Between 1973 and 1976 project implementation was difficult. Ineffi-
cient management in the early stages and the difficulty of recruiting labor
in the largely underdeveloped southwest, have slowed down execution of the
project. At the end of 1976, due to a large cost overrun, the area to be
planted was reduced to 7,000 ha. However, these shortcomings have been over-
come. The combination of higher wages and better living conditions improved
the labor situation in 1977, and the quality of the management has improved.
The Board approved a follow-up project earlier this year which would complete
the original planting program (an additional 6,500 ha), maintain the immature
trees planted under the first project and provide the financing for building
the processing facilities.
Executing Agency
35.       SAPH, which would be entrusted by the Government with the implemen-
tation of the project, was the first rubber plantation company established in
the Ivory Coast; it was formed in 1956 by a group of French companies which
had been operating for many years in Vietnam and Cambodia. In 1964, the
Government, through the Societe Nationale de Financement (SONAFI), acquired
a 60 percent interest in SAPH (US$13.7 million). The remainder is held by
subsidiaries of the French privately-owned Banque de Suez et de l'Indochine
(BSIC), of which the Societe Indochine de Plantations d'Heveas (SIPH) is the
principal shareholder. SAPH owns and operates three estates at Toupah, Bongo
anld Rapides-Grah and, in addition, manages the estate at Anguededou on behalf
of the Government. SAPEH has a staff of over 5,000 of whom 72 are in management
positions, including 19 expatriates. Most of the expatriates are seconded by
Societe de Developpement des Cultures Industrielles (SODECI), a subsidiary of
SIPH, with which SAPH has a technical assistance contract. For the year ending
September 30, 1977, SAPH made a profit before taxes of about US$2.9 million.
SAP!V-f is a well-managed company, and its financial situation and policies are
so UIAl.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The proposed project is described in detail in the Staff Appraisal
Report No. 2046-IVC dated October 27, 1978, and summarized at the beginning of
this report. Annex III contains Supplementary Project Data. The project was



- 11 -
identified and prepared by SAPH. Representatives from the two co-financiers,
the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) of the United Kingdom and the
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) of France, participated
in the appraisal in November/December 1977. Negotiations took place in
Washington at the end of July 1978. The Ivorian delegation was led by Mr.
Coulibaly, Director of the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA).
Project Background
37.       The project would comprise the first phase of a continuing program
of rubber smallholding development in the Ivory Coast. Most of the small-
holding development (3,000 ha) would take place in the southeast in associa-
tion with SAPH's existing industrial estates at Toupah and Bongo and the
estate and smallholder scheme operated by SAPH at Anguededou. The area is at
an altitude of 50-100 meters, with a mean temperature of 25-27 C and annual
rainfall of around 2,000 mm. Most of the land has already been farmed. The
rural population in the southeast region is about 900,000, with an average
family size of 8.3 persons per farm (i.e. 108,000 farms). The average farm
size is about 6.8 ha. Per capita income ranges from $240 to $420 depending on
the crop grown and the size of the farm. About a quarter of the population
are immigrants from neighboring countries such as Upper Volta, Mali and Ghana
and many of these work as laborers on Ivorian owned farms. The area is
characterized by a marked orientation towards a cash crop economy. Of the
total cultivated area of about 730,000 ha, more than half of the land is
planted with cocoa or coffee. However, Lne economic importance of these crops
in the project area should not be overvalued. Many of the plantings are
old and low yielding, and many consist of sporadically planted trees inter-
cropped with food crops. The major food crops grown are maize, yams, cassava
and plantains. These crops have traditionally been grown for subsistence
but are finding a growing market outlet in nearby urban centers, particularly
around Abidjan. There are labor constraints in the project area due to the
seasonal nature of agricultural activities and the overlap of the peak periods.
Therefore, rubber cultivation, with its even distribution of labor input
requirements throughout the year, is an attractive activity. It is estimated
that one or two hectares of rubber could be introduced to area farms with very
little displacement of the without-project farm activities. The introduction
of rubber cultivation under the proposed project would increase farm incomes
and diversify production in the project area.
38.       A new nucleus estate (2,000 ha), which would serve as a basis for
the development of further smallholder schemes (a first 500 ha under the
project), would be established in the Songan Forest Reserve, north of Bongo.
Climatic conditions are satisfactory for rubber.  The project area is under
medium to dense evergreen forest from which most of the marketable timber has
already been extracted. Outside the forest area, the principal perennial cash
crops are coffee and cocoa; and it is among the growers of these crops that
potential rubber smallholders would be recruited. Transport infrastructure is
satisfactory in the project area. However, the Government has agreed to
rehabilitate the ferry service on the Comoe River by December 31, 1978 (Loan
Agreement, Section 5.03), and has recently confirmed that this would be
carried out.



- 12 -
Project Description
39.       The proposed project, which would be implemented over a seven-year
period representing the gestation span of rubber trees, would comprise:
(a) planting of 3,000 ha of smallholding rubber around
Anguededou, Bongo and Toupah, on land that would be
manually cleared by participating farmers.
(b) clearing and planting of a Government-owned 2,000 ha
nucleus industrial estate to be managed by SAPH on
land to be selected within a 5,000 ha concession in
the Songan Forest Reserve. Clearing would be carried
out under contract using heavy mechanical equipment;
(c) planting of 500 ha of smallholdings in association
with the new estate at Songan;
(d) maintenance of all young rubber planted under the
project for the duration of the project period;
(e) setting up of training and extension services to
ensure the proper guidance and supervision of partici-
pating farmers; and
(f) a socio-economic study of the region around the Songan
concession to determine the rate of implementation and
ultimate extent of rubber smallholding development in
association with the new estate. The likely impact of
such plantings on other cash crop activities and the
effect that the introduction of a new perennial tree
crop might have on food production both for subsistence
and trade would also be investigated.
40.       SAPH would enter in a management contract with Government which
<-Ould determine SAPH's tasks and responsibilities, the form of Government's
-upervision, the payments to be made to SAPH to cover the costs of the creation
,- the Songan nucleus estate, the setting up and operation of the smallholders
extension organization and any other services, including agreements on rates
and fees to be charged by SAPH and the flow of funds and reporting requirements.
The contract would specify under what conditions SAPH would process in its
mills the rubber produced by the smallholders. Fees would be computed as
follows: as regards personnel, SAPH would recover from the project the full
cost of the staff, including salaries and benefits with an additional 10
percent as a fee for SAPH. Equipment hired for the project by SAPH would be
charged at a fee to cover operating costs and depreciation. In addition, SAPH
would be remunerated for management services provided to the project by a
general fee which appears reasonable, being below that usually obtained in



- 13 -
the Ivory Coast by consulting firms offering that kind of technical assistance.
A draft of the proposed contract has been agreed upon by the Bank, the Govern-
ment and SAPH; its signature would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01). The contract would be renewable
after a 10-year period.
41.       While SAPH would be fully responsible for all technical aspects of
the project, the smallholder credit would be provided by BNDA. External funds,
made up of US$0.8 million from the Bank, US$0.6 million from the CCCE and
US$0.3 million from CDC, would be onlent by Government to BNDA at the inter-
est rate charged to Government, plus in the case of the Bank and the CDC
loans, one percent to cover the foreign exchange risk which would be borne by
Government. Government's own funds would carry no interest rate. The average
cost of the funds to BNDA would be about 5.5 percent per annum. BNDA's on-
lending to farmers would be at 9 percent per annum. This interest rate
represents a slight increase from the 8 percent limit previously in effect for
the Bank's lending for agricultural credit. Domestic inflation has averaged
about 10 percent in the past three years in the Ivory Coast,but is expected
to drop to an annual rate of 7 percent over the life of the farmers' loans.
The arrangements covering the terms and conditions of Government's loan to
BNDA and BNDA loans to farmers would be specified in a contract between the
Government and BNDA. A draft of the proposed subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and BNDA has been agreed upon by the Bank, the Government, and
BNDA, and its signature would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01). The signing of a protocole for the
co-distribution of agricultural credit to the farmers between BNDA and SAPH
would also be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agree-
ment, Section 7.01).
Accounts, Audit and Reporting Requirements
42.       SAPH would manage the project accounts, and keep records consis-
tent with sound accounting practice to reflect its operation and financial
situation. These records would also show the accounts of the respective
project components and the position of the outgrowers' loans and repayments.
Government would cause SAPH to appoint independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank and their reports would be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
may reasonably request. These reports would be sent to the Bank no later
than six months after the closing of the financial year. Assurances to
that effect have been obtained (Project Agreement, Sections 2.06 and 4.02).
Staffing, Training and Extension
43.       The staffing of the project would be assured by SAPH.  Key staff of
the Songan Estate would consist of one estate, one nursery and one field
managers, two field assistants and one mechanical technician. The senior
staff of the smallholders' scheme would consist of one program manager, one
rubber specialist and three sector chiefs. Because of currently limited ex-
perience in rubber production, the estate, nursery and field managers and
the smallholders' rubber specialist would initially be expatriates, but it is
expected that these expatriates would be replaced by Ivorians by the end of
the project period. A total of 21-1/2 man/years of expatriate assistance



- 14 -
would be provided for under the project at an average man-year cost of about
US$50,000 in 1977 prices, which is low by West African standards.
44.       Training would be carried out at the Government residential training
center at Anguededou and practical field work would be performed on the SAPH
estates. A detailed training program would be drawn up by SAPH and presented
for review by the Bank not later than December 31, 1978 (Project Agreement,
Section 2.08). The training program would relate to both staff training and
farmer training.  Since the staff would already be experienced in the prac-
tical aspects of rubber husbandry, their training needs would be related more
to the techniques of communication, effective supervision and motivation of
participating farmers. Would-be participants in the smallholding scheme with
no previous experience of rubber growing would be given an introductory course
prior to being accepted in the program. This would ensure that they fully
appreciate the nature of their commitment with regard to the physical work
involved in the program and the financial obligations. Subsequently farmer
training would be by practical demonstration.
45.       Because rubber would be a new crop to the project participants,
intensive supervision and guidance would be required. SAPH would appoint
one extension worker for every 20 farmers during the land preparation and
planting period and change the ratio subsequently to 1:40. In each of the
four areas the extension staff would be under the direction of a sector
chief. There would also be, in each sector, a mobile team (consisting of
a supervisor and three skilled workers) which would provide technical assis-
tance to extension workers in the demonstration and supervision of key oper-
ations requiring prior rubber experience. It is not intended that there
should necessarily be any formal grouping of farmers as a prequalification
for participation. However, such groups on an informal or organized coop-
erative basis would be encouraged by the extension staff.
Implementation
46.       Smallholder plantings in the Toupah, Bongo and Anguededou areas
would be expected to start on a small scale in PY 1 - planting material and
the nucleus of an extension staff structure are already available - and would
gather momentum reaching an expected planting rate of between 700-850 hectares
during PYs 3 to 5. The Songan estate planting program would not commence until
PY 2, in order to provide SAPH with time to undertake detailed land surveying
and to make provisions for the necessary contractual arrangements, admin-
istration and preliminary infrastructure required for this new venture in
an as yet undeveloped area.  The following planting program is scheduled:
300 ha in PY 2, 700 ha in PY 3 and the remaining 1,000 ha in PY 4. The small-
holder program within the vicinity of the new Songan estate would not commence
until PY 4, in order to ensure the initial establishment of the estate to act
as a nucleus for the outgrower development.
47.       The typical smallholder is expected to plant between 1 and 4 ha
of rubber. The following specific criteria for the selection of smallholders
would be applied:



- 15 -
(i) The applicant would be engaged full-time in agriculture and
derive the major part of his income from these activities.
(ii)  The land proposed should be suitable for planting with rubber,
accessible to an all-weather road and within an economical
collecting radius from either an existing factory or the
factory to be built on the new estate at Songan.
(iii) The maximum area to be planted under the project by any one
farmer would be limited to 10 ha (Loan Agreement, Schedule
4, Section 1). Other members of the household would not be
allowed to participate independently in the program.
(iv)  The creditworthiness of the farmer would be investigated by
SAPH and confirmed by BNDA.
(v) SAPH would require evidence that the farmer has disposition of
sufficient family or hired labor to take proper care of his
rubber plantings without jeopardizing his existing food-
farming activities.
(vi)  Farmers fulfilling the above requirements would be required
to enter into contractual agreement with SAPH and with BNDA,
recognizing their obligations to cultivate their rubber
according to instructions issued by SAPH and to meet their
debt commitments with BNDA. Farmers would sell all of their
crop to SAPH until they have repaid their loans.
48.       A survey of smallholders in the Toupah, Bongo and Anguededou areas
has already been carried out and shows sufficient response to ensure an en-
rolment adequate to achieve project targets. A socio-economic study of the
areas immediately surrounding the site of the Songan Estate would be conducted
to determine the rate of implementation and the ultimate extent of smallhold-
ing development there. SAPH would commission consultants, on terms of refer-
ence acceptable to the Bank, to produce a report by not later than the end of
1979 (Project Agreement, Section 2.09). A total of about twelve consultant
man-months would be required, at an average cost of about US$9,000 per month
(of which 50 percent would be for salary, 17 percent for international and
local travel and 33 percent for local subsistence). Total estimated costs,
including local supporting staff and in-the-field expenditure, would be about
US$136,000 in 1977 terms.
49.       To assist the farmer in meeting the cost of establishing his rub-
ber plantings, credit in kind and in cash would be provided during the crop
investment period. Participating farmers would be able to purchase on credit,
during the first seven years of the crop's life all field inputs required
for planting and maintenance, and also the initial equipment for tapping.
Such inputs would be supplied directly to farmers by SAPH at cost and the
farmers accounts at BNDA would be debited accordingly (credit in kind). In
addition, in order to provide some immediate financial compensation to the
farmer for his labor input on the crop, during the five-year period before the
trees can be tapped, project participants would be eligible for cash advances.



- 16 -
These advances would be based on a value of CFAF 300 per man/day - the Gov-
ernment's minimum rural daily wage - times an estimated man/day requirement
for each crop year. Although this figure is less than the estimated opportun-
ity cost of labor of CFAF 500 per man/day, future financial return rather
than immediate compensation is expected to provide the primary incentive to
farmer's participation. Total credit in cash would not exceed about
CFAF 73,200 per ha in 1977 terms, and not all of the farmers will be interested
in borrowing that much. Interest on farmers' credit would be capitalized
during the first seven years of development which would include the first year
of tapping when only 150 kg/ha of rubber are produced. The loan would be
repaid over nine years after seven years of grace with the principal being
repaid in proportion to the farmers yields thus sheltering the farmer from
unduly heavy repayment during the first few years of tapping. In 1977 terms,
each farmer would receive a credit per ha of about CFAF 179,300. This debt
would be repaid by deductions from the money paid by SAPH for their rubber.
Cost Estimates
50.       Project costs (net of taxes) during the seven-year investment period
are estimated at US$16.1 million with foreign costs of about US$7.9 million (49
percent). Debt service during the project period which is not included in the
project cost would amount to US$4.7 million.
Project Financing
51.       The Bank would provide a loan of US$7.6 million, i.e. 47 percent of
total project costs (net of taxes). The Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC) of the United Kingdom, and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE) of France, would participate in the financing with the equivalent of
US$3.0 million and US$1.5 million respectively. The three loans would be
made to Government. Total external financing would amount to US$12.1 million
(75 percent of net project costs) and would finance the foreign exchange cost
- US$7.9 million - plus US$4.2 million of local cost. Such a high percentage
of foreign financing is justified on the grounds that the Government would
have to incur substantial expenditures for maintenance of the estate, con-
tinuation of the operations of the smallholder and debt service (see para 53).
The Bank's share of the local cost financing, measured in proportion to its
share of total external financing would be about US$2.6 million. Government's
contribution net of taxes would amount to US$4.0 million a condition of
effectiveness of the Bank loan would be the effectiveness of the CDC and CCCE
loans (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01).
52.       Government and CDC would finance start up costs during the first year
of the project. CDC would finance jointly with the Bank and Government all
project components starting the second year of the project for a four year
period when the bulk of investments would be carried out and all plantings
would be completed. CCCE would limit its part to the financing of the 3,000
ha smallholder component. Government alone would finance project years six
and seven. Each yearly allocation, which would cover all project costs and
farmers' credits, would be made available to SAPH and BNDA by Government at
-:he beginning of the year on the basis of a Budget aad Schedule of Operations,
presented by SAPH and agreed by the Government.



- 1 7 -
53.       Additional financing would be needed after the project seven-year
tDeriod for another five years to bring the estate to maturity, to continue
-he operation of the smallholders extension services, to provide additional
processing facilities and to ensure debt servicing of the loans incurred
to finance the proposed project. The Government would provide the necessary
funds as from July 1983 (Loan Agreement, Section 5.02).
Procurement and Disbursements
54.       The following procurement arrangements would be in force during the
five-year disbursement period of the external loans. Contracts of US$50,000
equivalent or more would be made through international competitive bidding, in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. Goods and services so procured are estimated
to cost US$3.9 million, consisting mainly of estate land clearing (US$2.2 mil-
lion) and vehicles and equipment (US$1.7 million). An exception should be made
for the first 300 ha of land clearing (US$0.4 million) which, in order to take
advantage of the 1978 dry season, to avoid delaying the first planting year,
would be carried out under negotiated contract under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. Individual contracts for vehicles and equipment for
less than US$50,000 would be awarded on the basis of local procedures accept-
able to the Bank (total cost estimated at US$0.4 million). Civil works,
mainly housing and field offices (US$1.6 million) scattered over a large area,
would be contracted according to competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Bank or, after specific
approval by the Bank, carried out by SAPH force account. Field inputs consist
mostly of planting materials (US$0.7 million) to be produced by SAPH. The
rest, mainly fertilizers and chemical sprays, (US$0.6 million) would be pro-
cured in bulk by SAPH, together with their own purchases of which they would
constitute about 20 percent, through local competitive bidding, consultations
with suppliers, or negotiated contracts. The remaining project costs (US$8.4
million) would be for studies (US$0.2 million), for salaries and administra-
tive overheads (US$3.1 million), estate agricultural development costs (US$2.1
million), operations and maintenance (US$2.1 million), and cash advances to
the smallholders (US$0.9 million).
55.       The Bank loan would be disbursed over four years of the project
period Fs cover:
(a)  45% of the cost of the smallholder components for:
(i)  vehicles and equipment (US$0.1 million);
(ii) construction (US$0.1 million);
(iii)  farmers credit in kind and cash (US$0.9 million);
(iv) salaries, administration, and other operating costs
(US$0.9 million); and
(b) 55% of the cost of the Songan estate for:



- is -
(i)  vehicles and equipment (US$0.5 million);
(ii) construction (US$0.6 million);
(iii) land clearing (US$1.2 million);
(iv)  field development (US$1.0 million);
(v)  consultant services, salaries, administration
and other operating costs (US$1.3 million).
56.       US$1.0 million would be unallocated.  Disbursements for a(i) and
(ii) and b(i), (ii) and (iii) would be fully documented. Disbursements for
the other categories would be against certificates of expenditures, the
documentation for which would be retained by SAPH and BNDA for inspection
by supervision missions.
Markets
57.       All current SAPH production is sold as block rubber which has an
advantage over sheet rubber in that its technical qualities can be specified
accurately. Given this advantage, SAPH is expected to continue to process
its rubber in this form. Over 90 percent of SAPH's present production is
exported, mainly to European countries especially France. Exports are sold
through EURONAT, a SIPH subsidiary which charges a 2.5 percent commission of
the CIF value, which includes guaranteed recovery of proceeds. The rubber
market is good, as natural rubber is expected to remain competitive with the
synthetic product. Project output values are based on the forecast CIF price
for RSS1 quality rubber with adjustment to allow for transportation costs and
quality differentials.
Financial Returns
58.       Assuming a CFAF 130/kg producer price which would represent about
59 percent of the projected world market price and 73 percent of the economic
farmgate value in the 1990's, the financial rate of return to the smallholders
is estimated at 20 percent. By the ninth year after planting, returns would
reach US$6.90 per man/day which compares favorably with the return from
traditional farming (US$5.00). This high return together with the relatively
low labor requirements for maintenance after planting and before tapping would
make rubber sufficiently attractive to the farmers even though there is a
long time before the production starts. The introduction of 2 ha of rubber
would double the per capita income of the participating farmers to between
US$500 and US$600 per year, i.e. slightly more than half the projected national
average.
59.       The financial return to Government on the overall project would be
about 10 percent: 8 percent on the smallholder component and 11 on the
estate. Government's cash flow would show deficits for the first decade
resulting in a peak cumulative deficit of US$23.5 million in 1988. However,
there would be annual surpluses as from 1989 and all project costs would
have been recovered after 16 years.
60.        Sensitivity analysis shows that a reduced producer price would
increase the Government's financial rate of return, but also could result
in an overall drop of the rate of return if farmers responded by reducing
the regularity of tapping, which would eventually cause a drop in yields.



- 19 -
Farmers must have adequate incentives to maintain and tap their trees on a
regular basis. The Government has agreed to keep farmgate prices at a level
sufficient to produce a reasonable revenue for the farmers (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 4, Section 5).
Project Benefits
61.       The proposed project would further Government's program for agri-
cultural diversification and for rural development in the southeast region
and would provide experience for the Ivory Coast in large scale smallholder
rubber production. For the economy as a whole, increased rubber production
would help reduce the dominance of a few major commodities in the Ivory
Coast's national income and export base. At peak output in 1995 about 9,500
tons of rubber would be produced by the project, i.e. about half of the Ivory
Coast present rubber production, and annual foreign exchange earnings (net of
foreign exchange cost of inputs) from the project would be about US$7.3
million (in 1977 terms). For the southeast region, the introduction of rubber
production on a smallholder basis would allow diversification of the rural
economy away from the present major emphasis on cocoa and coffee. The small-
holder development is expected to involve about 1,000 farming families; it
would also create employment opportunities in the hired labor market.
62.       The economic rate of return for the whole project is estimated at
13 percent; the economic return expected from the main smallholder program
(35 percent of total project cost) is 15 percent; the Songan estate (61
percent of total project cost), 11 percent; and the Songan smallholder program
(4 percent of total project cost), 18 percent. The economic rate of return is
relatively insensitive to changes in costs or benefits. The whole project
rate of return would fall to about 10 percent with a 20 percent increase in
costs. A decrease in benefits by 15 percent would result in an economic rate
of return of 11 percent.
Risks
63.       The project risks are linked to the introduction of a new crop into
the traditional farming system. These risks, however, should be alleviated
by the efficient management of SAPH and adequate farmgate prices that the
Government is committed to monitor closely. SAPH is an established and
experienced corporation which has gained experience in smallholding planting
in Anguededou. Yield estimates are based on its experience and make allowance
for some neglect in rubber tapping in favor of other agricultural activities
during the peak labor period. Therefore, smallholder yields are estimated at
70 percent of the estate yields. Moreover, provision would be made in the
management contract to assure adequate crop husbandry and the Government is
committed to maintain staffing at a level adequate to assure thorough supervi-
sion after the disbursement period. Participation in the project is expected
to be enhanced by the demonstration of benefits earned by participants in the
Anguededou scheme. Considerable interest, stimulated by the initial success
of Anguededou, exists among local farmers.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Ivory Coast
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and SAPH and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
65.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Fulfillment of the conditions of effectiveness of the CDC and the
CCCE loans, the execution of the Management contract between the Government
and SAPH, the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Govern-
ment and BNDA and the signing of a protocole for the co-distribution of
agricultural credit to the farmers between SAPH and BNDA would be conditions
of effectiveness of the loan (paras. 51, 40 and 41 respectively).
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Robert S. lfcNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
November 8, 1978



-21-                                           Page I
TABLE 3A
IVORY COST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
IVORY COAST                                            /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KMI.)                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           332.0                                                  SAME        SANE     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     171.2                               MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb      REGION Is   GROUp Ld   GROUP a
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 190.0      380.0    710.0            223.6      867.2       1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     76.0       228.0    366.0             86.7      578.3      1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        3.9         5.4       7.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 21.8 /f    28.0      34.3             13.6       46.2       52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      12.0        16.0      22.0            18.4       50.8        27.6
PER SQ. 10K. AGRICULTURAL LAND   23.0        32.0      43.0            53.6       93.3        116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        42.7 /g    42.5       43.1            44.4       42.9        34.8
15-64 YRS.                        53.7 Ikh  54.8        54.0            52.7       53.5        56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.6 /jR.    2.7       2.9             2.8        3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.4         3.4 Li   4.2 L4           2.6         2.5         1.6
URBAN                             10.6 Li     8.7 /k    9.9              5.8        4.7         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.0        46.1      45.6            46.9        37.8        27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    26.4        23.3      20.6            20.6       10.8          9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.2 ILLL    3.1       3.1             3.1        2.5          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..        ..             2.5        20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            59.5        100.0    113.7            94.2       107.3       103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  94.0        114.0     113.0            90.1      105.3       110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         52.0        60.0      64.5            55.2        63.o        77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        ..        18.0 /m   21.4             17.1       21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      ..          ..        ..              ..         8.0         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.9        41.0     43.5            43.7        57.2        63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          138.0 1        ..       ..            138.4       53.9        38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..       44.0        ..             22.4       56.8        67.7
URBAN                               *-        98.0       ..             66.3       79.0        83.5
RURAL                              ..         29.0       ..             10.4       31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                         5.0                       23.9      30.9         70.3
URBAN                               ..        23.0       ..             70.3       45.4        90.7
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..             14.2       16.1        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        25480.0/n   15320.0  15760.0           21757.5    2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    2210.0/Lno  2830.0/p  1970.0           3473.8    1462.0        849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               ..      1150.0   1240.0            645.4      493.9       275.4
URBAN                               ..       250.0       ..            172.9      229.6       129.9
RURAL                              ..       1650.0       ..           1292.6    2947.9        965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         ..         ..            19.2       22,1        18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         ..        ..              4.9        5.2         3.9
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..              5.0        5.0
RURAL                              ...                     .4.7                     5.4          .
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         ..        ..               ..        2.0         0.9
URBAN                              2.5 /q      ..        ..               ..        1.5         0.8
RURAL                               ..         ..         ..              ..        2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              1.071        ..        ..              ..       64.1        59.2
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              ..       67.8        78.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..       34.1        12.5



-  22  P-R 2
TABLE 3A
IVORY COAST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SUEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
IVORY COAST                                                /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 Ab     1970 Al ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP Ld    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  46.0          76.0      63.0              52.1        99.8         97.6
FEMALE                24.0         55.0       48.0              37.6        93.3         87.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0         11.0       17.0               8.0        33.8         47.8
FEMALE                  1.0          5.0       8.0               5.0        29.8         42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 13.0             7.0       6.0               7.2        12.8         22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             41.0         45.0       44.0              43.2        34.9         25.4
SECONDARY                              ..        21.0       23.0              22.8        22.2         24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           9.0 /f      20.0         ..             20.3        71.8         96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0         10.0         ..               3.9        12.4         32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          17.0          17.0        ..              40.1       104.5        201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          8.0        ..               2.2        28.1         97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     2.0         10.0        5.0              3.9        45.2         70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..         ..              1.2         4.6          4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1900.0 /r   2600.0    2900.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    44.0 /r      43.8       43.8              32.6        25.7         17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               86.0         82.0       80.0              73.3        46.2         38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   2.1          2.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  55.6         53.4      51.6              42.0        33.8         33.7
MALE                                   61.4         59.4       57.7             54.8        48.1         50.8
FEMALE                                 49.6         47.3      45.5              27.3        17.3         12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.1          0.9        1.0              1.2         1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   30.9 /s           ..        ..              25.7        23.6         20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.8 Is           ..      50.0 /s           55.1       52.3         47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.6 /s          ..        9.0 T.            5.8         4.3          3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.5 Ts           ..      20.0 /s           14.5        13.1         13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..            108.8       191.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..       96.0              74.1      193.1        157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      203.0            124.4       319.8        448.8
RURAL                                  *-           *-     134.0             59.6       197.7        313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       20.0             26.8        19.8         23.2
RURAL                                  ..          ..       30.0             47.6        35.1         54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
Ic  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /e  Upper
Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);   /f  1965;  /R  1957-58;   /h  Age 15-59 years and 60 and
over respectively;   /i  Due to immigrstion population growth rate is higher than the rate of natural
increase;   /1  1955-65;   /k  1965-70;   /1  African Population only;   /m  1964-66;   /n  1963;   /o In-
cluding midwives and assistant midwives;   /p  Government only, including midwives;   /q  1956-57;
/r  1964;   Is  Population.
September, 1978



- 23 -
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                      Page 3
kla:   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Esporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousandsq. km)                                                                Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                         urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                  available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                    habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                             at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                   cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);               sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                              provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                     from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                    HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                    and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                           the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                     hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                   Average number of persons Per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                                ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                         dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                   unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                        Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                   Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                   of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                     Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                   Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                       at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                   populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                      different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                    cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                     above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                    Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                   tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                          vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17vyears of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                       excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                         clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning -  caeptor, annual (thousands) - Annual nmmber of                         or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                       primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                         sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control               Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                         a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                     CONSUMPTION
Index  f food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                   Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                     seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                 vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita               Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less               broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,              receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                  effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental trmperature, body                  TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to generat
w,eights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                 public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                      tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                  Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                    tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                  cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                   be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.             Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based om the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                   sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                     units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food              EMPLOYHENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                    Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                 forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  DefiPi-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                              tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                  Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                        as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                               electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                  Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                               ;emale labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                  These are ILO's adjusted participation rates reflecting Age-sex
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                    structure of the population, and long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                 Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                    the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                   INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                 Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                   percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                     of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                 Estimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by emceets                      Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                       nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                       affordable.
treatnent, of human exmreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                  Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                    Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                     per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                      Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Populatias per nursing person - Population divided by number of                           Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing sale and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                       "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Department



ANNEX I
ECONOMIC OEVEOPIaENT DATA
(Amounts in rmililons of U.S. dollars)
Actual                       Projected            1965-   1976 -   1978 -   1985 -      965   '976    '985
19_5     1970     1976        1976     1905    199)      1976    1978      1985     1990
NATLPNAL ACCOtI ITS
5-Year Aveage at 1967- 1969 Prices & Exchange Rates        A-erage Annual Growth Rates         As Piercent of 0D0
cons Domestic Product           1041      1479     2245       2622      3984   5414        7.2     8.1      6.2      6.3    105.9   103.6   109.4
Gains from Terms of Trade (a) _        Q 23                     -328      .41                                                   -5.9    -3.6    -9.4
Gross Domestic Income             983      1509     22 v                 3343    489         7.5     9.4      5.0       5.9    100.0  100.0   Tom.
T,port (incl. NFS)                348       570      826        974      3210    1472       8.2      8.6      3.1      4.o      35.4    38.1    33.2
Exports   "  (import capacity)     6         88     -810       -97      -1205   -1585       7.6      9.9      3.0      5.6      36.8    37.4    33.1
Pescurce Gap                      -14       -18       1          -5         5    -113         ,       .        .         .                       0T 0.TL
Consumption Expendituies           785     1162     1661       1795      2440    3098       7.1      4.0      4.5      4.9      79.9   76.6    67.0
Investment   "  (incl. stocks)    184       329      522        795      1208    1638      10.0    23.4       6.2      6.3      18.7    24.1    33.2
Domestic Savings                  198       347      506         799     1203    1751       8.9    25.6       6.o       7.8     20.1    23.3    33.0
National Savings                  138       271      406        672      1005    1527      10.3    28.7       5.9       8.7     14.0    18.7    27.6
MERCHANDISE TRADE                          Annual Data at Current Prices                                                        As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                    61       111      417         870     1643    1933      21.1    44.0       9.5       3.2     23.9    28.1    41.8
Intermediate goods (cnLfuels)    41        85      250        347       588    1727      17.8    17.6       7.8     14.0      16.1    14.2    15.0
FRuels and related rnaterials    13        18      168        186       2o      617      29.5      5.4      1.7    19-.        5.1    11.3      5.4
of which:  Petroleum            4        14      142        170       190     580      43.0      9.4      3.4     19.0       1.6     9.6      4.8
ons   tion   ods gL                       218        6        4     q ,  Ia              17. 2     2.3     12.0     11.9  5 4L  46Id 4 i
TotaleM          orts (cir)      255      432        4       2073      323    6872        1                          11.9    100.0   100.0   100.0
Exports
Prtmary products axml. fuels)    246      394     1365       1918      2625    3984      16.8    18.6       4.5       8.6     86.,    78.4    64.9
Fuels and related materials      -          3       63         70        79     113         .      5.6      1.7      7.5       -       3.6     2.0
of -which: Petroleum           -          3       63         70        79     113        *       5.6      1.7      7.5       -      (3,6)   (2.0)
Manufactu,ed goods                40    .100       u14         414    Z132    =23        22.8    14.4      17.7     12.1    1L4       8L.0    31J
Total Merch. Exports (fob)      286       497     1742       2402      4041    6475               17.7               99    100.0 1000   100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                    Average 197-69 -  100
Export Price Index               79       lo4      218        276       338     448      10.7    12.3       3.4      5.8
Import Price Index               91       99       239        284      434      6o5      10.1     8.7       6.2      6.9
Terms of Trade Index             86      105        91         97        78      74       o.6     3.6      -2.8     -1.1
Exports Volume lndex             89      1114      181        206       316     437       7.3     6.7       6.3      6.8
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR            Annual Data at 1967- 6c Prices ard Exchange 2ates           Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of Total
Agriculture                     365      426       550        6oo      753      881       4.2     4.6       3.6      3.2     35.1    25.0      18.9
Industry and Mining             173      287      465         535      841    1156       10.4     7.4      6.7       6.5     16.6    21.3      21.1
Service                           3      766     123         1487     2                   D, 73 9.9         7-0      7.1     48.3    53.7    60.1
Total             1041J                   ~   1                                2 262245  547  8.6Y1 6,1  6 .2    100.0   100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                    As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)
Current Receipts                213      297     -587         606      9'70   1226        7.6     1.6      7.0       6.2     21.6    27.1      26.6
Current Expenditures            75                           1425      680    1027        9.2     6.3      7.0       6.2     15.8    17.2      18.7
dentay Svngs 5c 6r                                214            ll    2'3     199       13.9   -8.7       7.0    -7.         5.9     9.9       8.o
Other Public Sector              24       75      154         605      382     655       20.0   100.0     -6.8      ii.4      2.4      7.1     10.5
Public Sector Investmaent        90      158      368         786      6'72    854       15.1    47.0    -2.3        5.0      9.2    17.0      18.4
US $ million
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                  Actual       Prelim.   Est.    Proj.        DETAIL ON                              At end 1975  P and ER
As % Total Current Expend.)            1965    196        1977     1978    1980         PUBLIC SECTOR
Education                              17.9    37.7      37.0      37.0    37.0        INVESTMENT PROGRAM                            (1976-80)
Other Social Services                  10.4    13.0      11.5      10.8    10.5        Social Sectors                         1716          26
Agriculture                             4.6     2.9        3.3      3.0     3.0        Agriculture                            2046           31
Other Economic Services                16.5    19.0      20.5      17.2    17.0         Industry and Mining                    330          1
Administration and Defense             37.0    21.6      21.0      20.2    19.           we
Other                                  13.6     5 8       6.7      11.8    13C         Transport and communications           1518          23
Total Current Expenditures            100.0   100.0               100 0   100.0        Total Expenditures                     66r0         100,0
SELECTED INDICATORS                              1960-      1965-    1970-   1973-       FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)           1965      1970      1975    1978
Average ICOR                                      1.8       2.6       3.7    3s5             Pablic Scatdr  Savings             3894          59
Import Elasticity                                 0.8       1.4      0.9      1.0 2         Program  aid  counterpart            -
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                    0.18      0.22     0.30    0.25           ForeliganPrjcti Ai                 2706          410
Marginal National Savin,s Rate                    0.12      0.16      0.24    0.20           Tota  Financing                    6600         100.0
LABOR FORCE AND                               Total Labor Force                                Value Added Per Worker (1967  - 6   Prices & Exc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                In Millions         % of Total         1965 - 73         In U.S.Dollars     Percent o   verage         1965-73
1965       19 73   1965       19 7     G Growth Pate       19 65     19 7        19 5      19 73     Growth Rate
Agriculture                   1743        2093    85.7       82.9          3.2             209        215       40.4       30.6        03
Industry                       143         234      7.6       9.2         6.4             1210      1513       234.0     215.2         -1.0
Service                        127         201      6.7       8.0         2 293963                  4835       764.6     687.8          2.6
Total                         2013        2528   100.0      100.0          3.7             517        703      100.0     100.0          3,9
not applicable        - nil or negligible
not available        -- less than half the
smallest unit shown



- 2)-                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX i
BALANCE OP PAThD          tN E7.1AL ASSMTANCE AND DME
(amncnte in euio.len of D.S. dollarsf *t current prices)
Avg. Anmnl
Actual                         Dtiarated                                    Pro Joted                                    doovib Rate
1973  192   1975        1976         1iE92 1                      97 1122    1         t19            19352        19283       1977-19 9
SIOImAY BALANCE OF PAYME21TS
Eperto (iful. N23)                       987        1428         i48o        1935          2529          2831         2978        3293         3627        40o1         4467          10.0
Toport. (inel. N7S                       1041        1306         1591        1973          2393          345          2980        3310         3624        383          4409           5 9
.ec.l.c .         M (7 vl 57                          122         -111   -38                 14 -                                                  3                       2 59
Inter-ct (oet)                            -33         -38          .56         -50           -84          -1L6        -155         -190         -226        -263         -307          24.O
fir-et  u-tcenct Inocne                   -64         -53          -83         -60          -110          -120         -100        -120         -134        -151         -169            7.4
W-rk-rc' Renittanre                      -123         -139        -163         -170         -254           -290        -290        -290         -308         -333        -349            5.4
Cuirent Troncforen4c roqt)        4           4J            23          40            35             fl2 5                   30           34      J               42
Private Direct Inveatrent                  48          28           29          50            50            60           70          80           90          100         112          i4.4
Official CapitaL  bOruts                   17           15          19          17            20            20           20          20           20          20           20             0
Public MiLT L-aca
cisurcoueeetc                          228         218          326         355           533           897          987        1078         1188        12L2         1318          14.6
-Reraynents                          _46         -81          -90        -109          -150          -189         -403        -524         -607        -617        -778           31.0
Not Otuburaemecnc                         184          141        2  4Ir                      33           TOT    58 3              553         581           35                        3.7
Other MALT I-au/
Cue burs uccciu
Net DisbhFcAnAnt.                                                                                            0            0           0            0             OO
Capital frunsactios n.e.i.               -21           28          51           -3         -100                                         U973      1         11177
Ciance  in Net Resaerv                     10          -87         178          -38         -1L2         IEbT AND DEBT SERVICE
Pqblic Debt Out. & Diabured   579          736       963       1183        1969
GYRANT AND IOAN OOMMIDfThENT
OfCiciul 5racts A, G-rt-like               15           19          17          20                         INtereat on Public Debt         28        38         56        66          104
Repyeroto or Ppublic Debt       44        77         81       109         187
Piblie MALT lo.ne                                                                                         T7t31 Public Debt Serrice        72       115        137       175         290
E3RD                                      8          28          134          48            838         OtherfDebt Service (t)            3         4         9          0 
1DA                                       8           0            0           0             0          Total Debt Serie  (net)          75       119       146        175         290
Other
Other MultiLateral                       37           34           6          28            B0 airde- on E,pcrt  ara gp (S)
llo-erocut.                              21          47           51         121          r1O
Suppli.r.                                73           89         169          169          420           Public Debt S-reice              8         8         10         9           11
FiWancia  Lusiltutiton                  119          131          87         484         1L92           Tbtal Debt Servie                 8         8        10          9          11
4Scua                                     9           0            0           0             0          TDSuDiret Ivet. I..              14        12         16        12          14
Pubic Icouo.e.i.                          0            0           0            0            0                                                                                      14
ToTal Public HLIT Tac...          2          7      5 4N6r                     9            19CO        Averge Teors  of Publio  Debt
EXTE&Nl.k DEBT                                 Atfoul Debt Ootetaodiurg enDn    01 97                        lot. ce 6 Prior Year DEAN      4.8       5.2        5.8       5.6          8.8
MArld B37fr                                                                PeroeirC                       A-ort. as 6 Prior Year D06D   7.7        10.5        E.4       9.2        15.9
Wbrd  Sn                                                                     6.1
fDA                                    6.      ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 0.3          INtO Debt Out. & Dlobmursed
Other tla iloteral                                 104 6                     3                                     Public Debt 005        5.0       6.7        7.7       7.5          6.4
o-veauceic-                                        372.1                    19.2                          "      S Pqblio Debt ServIce   3.2        2.8        4.2       4.8          3.6
uiecli-rc                                         397.3                     20.2
Pluaccial Ocutitutiune                             942.3                    47.9                        IDA Debt Oat. & Dinbareed
bondo  D b                                          19.2                      1.0                        r oo S Public Debt OlD            -         -         C.2       0.3         0.2
T. Pub  tblti  e0 M.LT                                                                                   c     % Public Debt Service      -         -                   0.1          --
TtlPbic YALT Debt                           1968.510.
Other MLT Debts
Short-tae Debt (dieb. only)
cot applicable                                                   e  etaff  atiate                    i/ fcaded ie Public NULT I-an
-ti avilble  -matl                                                  nil or eegliaibla
not ailable sinrataly                                               le   ten half thi
but Included in total                                               seediest qrout dhona                                                                           aSpt -be  1978



- 26 -                   ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
STATUS OF BMAK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of September 30, 1978)
US$ Millions
Loan or      Fiscal                                          (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower             Purpose          Bank       IDA     Undisbursed
One           Credit Fully Disbursed                                7.5
Eleven        Loans  Fully Disbursed                      56.3
686-IVC       1970   Ivory Coast         Cocoa             5.3                    0.5
761-IVC       1971   Ivory Coast        Highways II       20.5                    0.2
837-IVC       1972   Ivory Coast         Highways III    17.5                     0.9
938-IVC       1974   Ivory Coast         Rubber             8.4                   2.1
981-IVC       1974   Ivory Coast         Telecom-         17.4                   14.9
munications
1069-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Cocoa II          20.0                   15.0
1076-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Abidjan            9.0                    3.9
Sewerage
1077-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Cotton            31.0                  24.7
1124-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Tourism            9.7                    9.1
1125-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Education II       5.0                    1.3
1161-IVC      1976   Ivory Coast        Highways V        43.0                   14.3
1162-IVC      1976   CCI                DFC                5.6                   5.4
1177-IVC      1976   BIDI               DFC                8.0                   6.4
1347-IVC      1977   Ivory Coast        Urban Dev.        30.0                  23.7
1348-T-IVC   1977   Ivory Coast         Urban Dev.        14.0                  11.0
1382-IVC/1   1977   SODEPALM            Oil Palm &
Coconut          20.0                  20.0
1484-IVC      1978   Ivory Coast        Water Supply    16.0                    16.0
1490-IVC/I   1978   RAN                 Railway           23.0                  23.0
1501-IVC      1978   Ivory Coast        Feeder Roads    29.0                    29.0
1575-IVC/1   1978   Ivory Coast         Rubber II         20.0                  20.0
1577-IVC/1   1978   Ivory Coast         Abidjan
Sewerage II      33.0                  33.0
TOTAL                                         441.7      7.5        274.6
of which has been repaid                14.6       -
TOTAL now outstanding                         427.1      7.5
Amount sold                           5.1
of which has been repaid         3.0      2.1       -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                425.0      7.5
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                             274.4      0.0        274.4
/1   Not yet effective.



- 27 -                  ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of September 30, 1978)
Type of                US Dollars
Year     Obligor                        Business       Loan      Equity    Total
1965     Banque Ivoirienne              Industrial       -       204,000   204,000
de Developpement            Development
Industriel                  Bank
1978     do.                            do.                      219,500   219,500
1977     Ets R. Gonfreville, S.A.      Textiles                  884,700   884,700
Total gross commitments                         -    1,308,200 1,308,200
Less cancellation, sold
or repaid                                   _      _          _
Total commitments now
held by IFC                                   -    1,308,200 1,308,200



- 28 -                   ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
C. Projects in Execution I/
Ln. No. 686           Cocoa Project:  US$7.5 million Loan of June 5, 1970;
Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1970; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project originally consisted of the planting of 18,800 ha of cocoa and
the rehabilitation of about 38,000 ha of existing cocoa plantations. The
project was amended in 1973 to reduce the rehabilitation component to 15,500
ha. Disbursements for the reduced program have now been completed and an
additional balance of US$0.5 million remains undisbursed; ongoing exchange of
views with Government may lead to its cancellation.
Ln. No. 761           Second Highway Project:  US$20.5 million Loan of June 22,
1971; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Execution of the project was satisfactorily completed in September 1975. The
funds remaining under the loan are being used to finance the supplementary
urban studies for Abidjan, initiated under the Third Highway Project.
Ln. No. 837           Third Highway Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of June 23,
1972; Effectiveness Date: May 4, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The project was the first Bank's involvement in highway maintenance in the
Ivory Coast. The maintenance and betterment programs were successfully
completed in May 1977. The training and technical assistance programs were
being carried out under the Feeder Roads and Maintenance Project (Loan No.
1501), which continues the maintenance program undertaken under this project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                  ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Ln. No. 938           Rubber Plantation Project:  US$8.4 million Loan of
October 23, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Due to slow progress in the planting program and as a result of higher-than-
expected inflation, funds under this project will only cover plantation of
about 7,000 ha which is not expected to be completed before 1979 (the total
foreseen at appraisal was 13,500 ha). The Bank has agreed to amend the Loan
Agreement to reflect the reduced planting (Memorandum to the Executive Direc-
tors R-76-240 of September 29, 1976). In September 1977 the Government
announced the dissolution of SOCATCI, the Borrower under this loan, one of a
number of measures taken to restructure the agriculture sector. The Govern-
ment has given assurances that it intends to complete the project as amended
in September 1976 and has decided to take over the responsibilities as Borrower
under this project. A Substitution Loan Agreement was approved in March 1978
(Ref. R78-38). It is expected to be effective soon.
Ln. No. 981           Telecommunications Project:  US$25.0 million Loan of
May 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project has experienced a two-year slippage due mainly to management
and organizational changes and delays in appointing engineering consultants.
After the Government awarded the contract for switching equipment to other
than the lowest evaluated bidder, the amount earmarked under the loan to
finance the equipment (US$7.6 million, including contingencies) was can-
celled as of March 31, 1977 (R77-128). The result of international bidding
for the remainder of the project has been satisfactory and most of the
contracts have been awarded. A 50 percent tariff increase for telecommunica-
tion services, effective January 1, 1978, is expected to generate the cash
necessary for the Postal and Telecommunication Office to carry out its expanded
investment program.
Ln. No. 1069          Second Cocoa Project:  US$20.0 million Loan of January 10,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project includes: establishing of 26,500 ha of high yielding cocoa planta-
tion, of which 9,500 ha would be planted in 76 blocks composed of individual
plots; providing technical assistance and credit to farmers; constructing
wells; constructing or rehabilitating access roads; and strengthening the
management. The project physical target has been met and SATMACI management
is satisfactory. The problem of quality of cocoa has been closely followed
and decisive progress in fermentation and drying techniques of cocoa have been
achieved. Repayment of loans to farmers under the project will start in 1978
only; however, as repayment performance of farmers' loans under the first
project has been unsatisfactory, a study to propose improvements of the
existing credit system is under consideration. Since 1976, the financial
situation of SATMACI has been unsatisfactory, as a result of administrative
delays in the payment of Government's contributions. The situation is being
supervised closely by RMWA.



- 30 -                  ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Ln. No. 1076          Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:  US$9.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Although construction works have already started, project execution is expected
to be delayed by about one year due to delays in procurement decisions. Work
is now progressing satisfactorily. Project costs are expected to be close to
appraisal estimates. The Abidjan sewerage and drainage sector's financial
situation is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1077          Cotton Areas Rural Development Project:  US$31.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 4,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Physical progress of the project under CIDT is in line with appraisal estimates
and overall performance of CIDT is satisfactory. As a result of overestimated
increase in demand for food crops, marketing of the crops has caused problems.
Although the village water supply and feeder road program was originally
delayed, appropriate measures have now been taken to implement both programs.
Disbursements are currently two years behind project execution due to problems
in establishing a system to provide the necessary documentation and format for
withdrawal applications. A recent agreement with the Caisse Autonome d'Amor-
tissement to have withdrawal applications prepared by the executing agency
should speed up the process.
Ln. No. 1124          Tourism Development Project:  US$9.7 million Loan of
June 11, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily. The line of credit is expected
to be fully committed by the end of 1978.
Ln. No. 1125          Second Education Project:  US$5.0 million Loan of June 11,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The project is almost completed. The two primary teacher training institutes
which were constructed under the project are in use and most of the improvements
to urban vocational training centers have been made. Studies have been completed
on regional education needs, educational T.V., personnel management, and secondary
school inventories; other studies to be financed under the projected are under
way.
Ln. No. 1161          Fifth Highway Project:  US$43 million Loan of September 5,
1975; Effectiveness Date: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The pavement strengthening program was completed mid-1978 on schedule.
Construction work has been substantially delayed because of technical and
management difficulties. Consultants have started the engineering studies
provided for under the project. UNDP was originally to finance the updating
of Lhe transport survey but cannot do so due to lack of funds. The Government
has agreed to amend the Loan Agreement to include financing of the survey in
this loan.



31                    ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Ln. No. 1162           Small-Scale Enterprises Project:  US$5.6 million Loan of
September 5, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Initial commitments by Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire, the project's financial
intermediary, have been slow. However, the line of credit is expected to be
about 80 percent committed by the end of 1978.
Ln. No. 1177           BIDI DFC Project:  US$8.0 million Loan of December 12,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 10, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
Three sub-projects have been approved; others are being prepared.
Ln. No. 1297           CIMAO Project:  US$3.5 million Loan of June 28, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: April 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The first regional industrial venture in West Africa, co-financed by seven
other official aid agencies, is proceeding satisfactorily. Financing arrange-
ments are on schedule. Procurement is proceeding according to plan: the most
important contract - for raw mills and kilns - has been awarded.
Ln. No. 1347           Urban Development Project:  US$44.0 million.  Loans
and 1348-T             (US$30.0 million and US$14.0 million on Bank and Third
Window terms respectively) of December 15, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: March 9, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Effectiveness was delayed until March 9, 1978 mostly due to slow administra-
tive procedures. Now the execution of the project is progressing satisfac-
torily. Although many of the project components, such as sewerage and high-
way contruction works, studies and technical assistance have already started
with Government prefinancing, overall project execution is about six months
behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1382 1/        Fourth Oil Palm Project:  US$20 million Loan of March 30,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Ln. No. 1484           Secondary Centers Water Supply Project:  US$16 million
Loan of September 9, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 9,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily on schedule.
Ln. No. 1490 1/       Regional Railway Project:  US$23 million Loan of
November 14, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
1/ Not yet effective.



- 32 -                   ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Ln. No. 1501          Feeder Roads and Highway Itaintenance Project:  US$29
million Loan of December 22, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
October 17, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1575 1/       Second Grand Bereby Rubber Project:  US$20 million
Loan of June 9, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Ln. No. 1577 1/        Second Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:  US$33
million Loan of June 9, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
1/   Not yet effective.



- 33             ~ 
- 33             ~~~ANNEX TIII
Page 1 of 2
SAPH RUBBER PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I
Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project Identification (SAPH)                 March 1977
(b) Preparation Report
(Ministry of Agriculture/SAPH)                September 1977
(c)  Appraisal Mission                             Nov./Dec. 1977
(d)  Negotiations                                   end July 1978
(e)  Effectiveness Planned                         January 1979
Section II
Special Implementation Actions
None
Section III
1.        Special conditions of the Loan and Project Agreements are that:
(a) the Government would rehabilitate the ferry service on the Comoe
River by December 31, 1978 (para. 38);
(b) SAPH would maintain proper accounts and engage independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, and furnish copies of the
accounts and audit reports not later than six months after
the close of the financial year (para. 42);
(c) SAPH would submit to the Bank for review, by not later than
December 31, 1978, a detailed training program (para. 44);
(d) the Government would limit the area for each individual farming
family to a maximum of 10 ha (para. 47);
(e) SAPH would prepare, by December 31, 1979 a socio-economic
study of the Songan area to determine the possibility of
extending smallholders development (para 48);



- 34 -                   ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) the Government would provide the necessary funds to
maintain the estate, continue the extension service
for the smallholder and provide additional processing
facilities (para. 53); and
(g) the Government would fix the selling price at a level sufficient
to allow adequate recovery of investment and operating costs
for extension, collection, processing and marketing and to pro-
duce a reasonable revenue for beneficiaries (para. 60).
2.        Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be:
(a) the signature of a management contract between Government
and SAPH for the implementation of the project, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 40);
(b) the signature of a subsidiary loan agreement between Govern-
ment and BNDA specifying the terms of the Government loan
to BNDA and regulating the credit to smallholders, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 41);
(c)  the signature of a protocole for the co-distribution of
agricultural credit to the farmer between BNDA and SAPH,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 41);
and
(d) the effectiveness of the CDC and CCCE loans (para. 51).



50                                                    To Dimbokro                                40                                                                                                             .....i::       J
AongouaVOT
IVORY COAST                             songouanou           \
SAPH RUBBER PROJECT                                                                                                             1   2 KILOMETE4RS  '  
CENTERS OF SMALLHOLDING DEVELOPMENT
*        Existing - SAPH Plantations                                                                                                                           Zoranou
FZJ1   Existing Government Estate and Smaliholder Scheme                                                                                                           A\. RS    O , O
Nucleus Estate Planned under the Project                                                                                                                                                         Ar AF         
-   Main Roads                                                                                                                                                B /   ,'_/(   Xy   t>Abradtorobo   !  '+A. 'hs map has been prepared by the
__________                                                                                                     Akrebi  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~so NGa  Srd  ank's staff etclusively for
Secondary Roads                                                                                                                                                                           he convenience of the readers of
\    the report to wh,ch it is attached.
Gravel Roads                                                                                   zop                                                                                              o J r n_ina___ ~~~tions usedT id  tnd the
Gravel Roads                                                                                                                            boundaries ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~shown on this map
Betie                       do no~~~~~~~~~t imply, on the part of the
-        \      World ~~~~Bank and its affiliates, any
-   -. -    International boundaries                                                                                                                                                            '     judgment on the legal status of   0
60                                                                                                                                                                                                       any territory or any endorsement  6 
6                                                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or acceptance of such boundaries.
T ia dis'   t   /   9                                                                                                 t\ ~~~~~~~G H A N A 
'11C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~arna~~~~~~~~~~~'
OANAL.  ~    ~                 Jacqueville                                           Grand Bessakmoiss
Grand-Lahou                                                                                                           UI                                                                                                               i3A
asap          ANLA4TEOIC                             CAN
A T ,' A  T I C                                                                                                                                          0 ( E A N  C.)
5,                                                                                              4                                                                                                30                            00  0i



