CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1633 IVC
Project Agreement
(SAPH Rubber Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE AFRICAINE DE PLANTATIONS D'HEVEAS
Dated November 30, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1633 IVC
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 30, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and SOCIETE AFRICAINE DE PLANTATIONS D'HEVEAS (hereinafter
called SAPH).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of the Ivory Coast (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seven million six hundred thousand dollars ($7,600,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that SAPH agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a management contract to be entered into between the
Borrower and SAPH, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for
under the Loan Agreement will be made available to SAPH on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS SAPH, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts
B, C and D of the Project
Section 2.01. SAPH shall carry out Parts B, C and D of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency, in accordance with the provisions of


﻿- 2 -
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering, commercial and
agricultural practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist SAPH in carrying out Part
D of the Project, SAPH shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to SAPH and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04, (a) SAPH undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by SAPH to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, SAPH shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for
the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) SAPH shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for Parts
B, C and D of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) SAPH shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Parts B, C and D of the
Project (including their costs and the benefits to be derived
therefrom), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in Parts B, C and D of the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made
available to it by the Borrower and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all


﻿- 3 -
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
Parts B, C and D of the Project, their costs and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived therefrom, the expenditure
of such proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between SAPH and the
Bank, SAPH shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of Parts B, C and D of the
Project, their costs and the benefits derived and to be derived
therefrom, the performance by SAPH and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) SAPH shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of SAPH and any relevant records and documents.
(e) SAPH shall, until one year after the Closing Date,
retain or cause to be retained all records (orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan
Account on the basis of certifica.es of expenditures relating to
Categories (4) and (5) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and shall enable the Bank's accre-
dited representatives to inspect such records.
Section 2.06. SAPH shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Management Contract. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, SAPH shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Management Contract or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) SAPH shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Management Contract, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
(b) SAPH shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or


﻿the performance by SAPH of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Management Contract.
Section 2.08. By December 31, 1978 or such later date as
may be agreeable to the Bank, SAPH shall submit to the Bank, for
its approval, a training program together with a timetable for
implementation thereof under ilar:t B of the Project.
Section 2.09. SAPH shall, pursuant to terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, prepare or cause to be prepared, by
December 31, 1979, or such later date as may be agreeable to the
Bank, the study included in Part D of the Project and shall
promptly thereafter review its results in consultation with the
Borrower and the Bank in order to determine the scope for further
rubber smallholder development in the Songan area.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SAPH
Section 3.01. SAPH shall at all times manage its affairs
and conduct its business in an efficient manner under capable
management and with competent staff and in accordance with appro-
priate administrative, financial and agricultural practices.
Section 3.02. SAPH shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. SAPH shall at all times operate and maintain
its equipment and property and promptly make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, in accordance with appropriate engineering
and agricultural practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SAPH shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. SAPH shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and


﻿-5-
related statements) related to the Project for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including an opinion by said auditors in respect of the
records and expenditures referred to in Section 2.05 (e) of
this Agreement, showing whether the proceeds of the Loan made
available to SAPH and withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis
of certificates of expenditures have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
SAPH related to the Project and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of SAPH thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify SAPH thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,


﻿- 6 -
cable or telex to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1018 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SAPH:
13 Boulevard Roume
B.P. 1322
Abidjan
Cable address:                     Telex:
SUZANNAH                           Suzannah 3696
Abidjan
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of SAPH may be taken or executed by the
Director-General of SAPH or such other person or persons as the
said Director-General shall designate in writing, and SAPH shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticaLed specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement is executed in four counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused


﻿-7-
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Xavier de la Renaudi&re
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE AFRICAINE DE PLANTATIONS D'HEVEAS
By /s/ Denis Gueu Ouapeu
Authorized Representative


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works included in the Project
shall be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding under the Project and in addition to
the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, SAPH shall
prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. SAPH shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   To the extent practicable, identical or similar items shall
be grouped for purposes of bidding so as to permit bulk procure-
ment.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the construction of housing and field offices
will be advertised locally and awarded in accordance with local
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $50,000 may be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank; provided, however, that the esti-
mated price of the contracts so procured shall not, in the
aggregate, exceed $400,000.


﻿-9-
3.   Contracts for the purchase of fertilizers and chemical
sprays under Part A of the Project may be procured on the basis of
local competitive bidding, price quotations from at least three
suppliers or direct purchase, as may be agreeable to the Bank from
time to time, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to SAPH of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Ivory Coast and to be procured in
accordance with the procedures described in Part A.1 of this
Schedule may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Ivory Coast if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Ivory Coast equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Ivory Coast.


﻿- 10 -
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
#shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, SAPH shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, SAPH shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of


﻿- 11 -
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform SAPH and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
SAPH shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of  the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this    Schedule, promptly
inform SAPH and state the reasons for such determination.
E.   Works by Force Account
Civil works for the construction of housing and offices
may, after approval of the Bank, be carried out by force account.


