Report No. PID10651
Project Name                     Malawi-Financial Management, Transparency, and
Accountability Project (FIMTAP)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Public Financial Management
Project ID                       MWPE74627
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
Implementing Agency
Address OFFICE OF PRESIDENT AND CABINET
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                September 6, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         November 18, 2001
Projected Board Date             March 14, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Since its transition to multi-party democracy in the mid-1990s, Malawi has
undertaken a broad range of public sector reform initiatives covering
public expenditure management, administrative and civil service reform,
capacity building, anti-corruption, and decentralization. These efforts
as well as their impact on the budget process, and budgetary outcomes are
described below. This section also identifies key lessons learned from
reform experience to date as well as Government's recent re-formulation of
its public sector reform strategy.2.1 Malawi's public sector reform
agenda, 1995-20000f particular importance is the Medium-Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF), which was introduced gradually since 1995 and sought to
develop a strategic approach to budgeting over the medium-term, to effect
resource allocations in accordance with emerging poverty reduction
priorities, and to integrate the investment and recurrent sides of the
dual budget. It also introduced logical frameworks to assist line agencies
in defining their mission, goals, and program objectives, and
Activity-Based Budgets (ABB) to enhance program costing and classification
in budget presentation.In addition to the MTEF's upstream, planning focus,
more recent efforts have sough to focus on budget implementation. In May
2000, the Government updated the monthly cash allocation system with a
Credit Ceiling Authority (CCA) that sought to bring monthly budget outruns
in line with receipts. A new Commitment Control System (CCS) was also
instituted in 1998 to prevent the build-up of new domestic arrears and
improve monitoring of old arrears through stricter controls on internal
purchases, requisitions, and other commitments, as well as regular
reporting on new and outstanding commitments. Ongoing efforts to pilot an
Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) in four
ministries is the most significant attempt to date to improve the overall
quality and timeliness of the Government's fiscal and financial data by
introducing accrual accounting, facilitate day-to-day reporting and
accounting of government transactions, and automate other processes such
as cash management, commitment control, receipting and payments.Integral
to public sector reform in Malawi, the Government has sought to improve
the enabling environment in which civil servants are expected to carry out
deliver on policy and program objectives. Supported under the IDP2



project, the Government has reviewed its civil service system with an eye
towards more far-reaching improvements in the incentive and institutional
framework. These include reviews of pay and grading systems, which were
carried out through a Job Evaluation and Grading (JEG) exercise and market
comparator salary surveys, and functional reviews of line agency roles and
structures. While these exercises have helped identify some of the
incentive problems in the public sector, the Government's approach has
remained largely incrementalist. Short of comprehensive administrative
reform, a variety of limited measures have been implemented the abolition
of the common services model, hiring of accounting professionals on
contract, as well as outsourcing activities previously undertaken by
industrial class workers. In mid-2000, the Government also introduced a
new housing allowance scheme, in July 2000, which does not eliminate
inequalities between previously housed and non-housed staff within the
same grade, but does offer a greater degree of transparency through
monetization. In addition, a performance contracting scheme, originally
introduced in August 2000, provides for the voluntary migration of top
cadres (P4/S4 and above) to renewable three-year contracts at more
favorable levels of remuneration. Success of the scheme depends on
specification and enforcement of performance criteria, as well as greater
insulation of top cadres from political interference. The Government is
also considering options for enhancing the role of the Civil Service
Commission or a similar body that can more effectively address the growing
number of employment-related grievances, and more broadly, ensure the
professionalism and integrity of the civil service. Over the medium-term,
Malawi's largely unfinished reform agenda also awaits a thorough review
and revision of job classes, grading, and salary structures in combination
with systematic role restructuring of central line agencies in
anticipation of the decentralization of service delivery
responsibilities. While analytical and diagnostic work on areas such as
line agency structures, as well as pay and employment have been
undertaken, implementation has been stalled by problems of affordability,
poor ownership and coordination, and growing populist pressures from lower
level cadres.Efforts to improve governance have included the establishment
of an Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) under the Corrupt Practices Act. The
ACB has been entrusted with relatively broad powers including taking
necessary measures to prevent corruption in public bodies, receiving and
investigating complaints of alleged corrupt practices, and prosecuting
these offices, subject to the direction of the Director of Public
Prosecutions (DPP). The Act also grants the Bureau with authority to
investigate the conduct of any public officer that may be connected with
corrupt practices. Since its establishment, the ACB has proven to be an
increasingly credible mechanism for raising public awareness about the
costs of corruption, and more important, investigating suspected corrupt
practices by high officials. It is difficult to underestimate the impact
of the ACB's more high profile cases such as those related to government
procurement in shaping the public's expectations that no individual,
however powerful, should be above the law. The Bureau, however, has had
only modest success in actually prosecuting cases against allegedly
corrupt officials. A range of proposals are currently being considered to
essentially expand its writ of authority to ensure that offenders tried
expeditiously. An element of governance in Malawi involves efforts to
deepen the accountability of public institutions to civil society. While
the Government has made notable progress in consulting civil society
during the preparation of the 2001 budget, more needs to be done to
-2 -



institutionalize regular monitoring of budget and program implementation
by local communities, NGOs, and other civil society groups. More broadly,
there is need to increase accessibility of state actors and institutions
to public scrutiny. The Government is currently considering measures such
as reinstituting the practice of annual public reporting on financial and
public performance by public bodies, expanding the scope of Freedom of
Information legislation, strengthening of the Office of the Ombudsman, and
improving relations between the media and government agencies.2.2 Impact
on the budgetary institutions and processes, outcomesDespite this
ambitious--albeit unfinished--reform agenda spanning the 1995/96-1999/00
period, Malawi has made only modest progress in achieving the fundamental
objectives of budget system such as fiscal discipline, as well as
allocative and operational efficiency. Comprehensiveness is improving as
a greater share of donor financing is being recorded in the development
budget. In addition, the budget can now be monitored by program
classification. Also, line ministries are starting to comply with the
requirements of the cash budget system through more timely submission of
expenditure returns. Yet, public expenditure management in Malawi is
still characterized by an annual, one year fiscal framework and a dual
budget. A range of structural or institutional deficiencies and poor
capacity continue to weaken virtually all stages of the budget cycle.
Formal rules and procedures governing budget formulation and
appropriation, execution, and reporting are not adequately enforced. For
instance, during formulation, delays in issuance of ceilings by the
Ministry of Finance provides an incentive for sector ministries to
disregard Activity Based Budgets, produced from original budget estimates,
and undertake ad hoc, line-item budgeting as allocations are revised.
Also, extra-budgetary requests, intended as emergency measures, have
become a standard practice as ministries seek to increase expenditure
limits midway through the budget year and in contravention of financial
management regulations. Mechanisms to deal with macroeconomic volatility
and unpredictable cash flows are absent, thereby magnifying compliance
problems. Moreover, the poor quality and lack of timely access to fiscal
and macroeconomic data continues to be a serious constraint on budget
monitoring. These are exacerbated by a lack of consistency and
comprehensiveness in carrying out bank reconciliation, as well as weak
internal and external audit functions. Finally, insufficient attention
has been given to the monitoring of frontline performance, and improving
the key public management requirements for effective program
implementation (for example, comprehensive wage reform, line agency
restructuring, and decentralization).These institutional weaknesses in the
Malawian budget system have continued to contribute to poor budgetary
outcomes at the aggregate fiscal, strategic, and operational levels. The
available data indicated that the macroeconomic and fiscal framework has
typically underestimated revenues in nominal terms, thereby generating
unrealistic budget estimates that vary significantly from final outturns.
Discrepancies in revenues, grants and expenditures along with shortfalls
in external financing have applied unexpected pressures on domestic
borrowing. While total actual expenditures generally conformed to initial
estimates, problems of budget variance undermined the strategic priorities
authorized within the budget. Specifically, variance within economic
groupings was marked in large part because of systematic underestimates of
recurrent and overestimates of development expenditures. Variations in
actual versus budgeted expenditures typically meant that social and
economic functions such as health, education, and agriculture suffered at
-3 -



the expense of administrative and 'sovereign' functions such as defense
and foreign affairs. The is in part explained by incidence of virement or
re-appropriation between line items within authorized ceilings. The
build-up of domestic arrears is also widely acknowledged as a
long-standing, concentrated in central ministries, that threatens to the
fiscal framework, inter-sectoral allocations, and program
implementation.Progress in driving operational performance has been mixed
as well. For instance, in the primary education sector, survival rates
have increased over the 1995-99 period. In addition, even though twice as
many resources are spent to produce a primary school completer than would
be needed if all student completed in 8 years, the input-to-output ratio
has fallen dramatically since 1995. Concerns about the sustainability of
enrollments, the quality of educational services including the integrity
of the school testing regime, and administrative overhead remain. In the
road sector, Malawi is above SADC averages for paved roads and its rural
road network is substantial. Increased allocations for road maintenance
are envisaged over the medium, however, concerns have been raised about
excessive administrative costs, overstaffing, and structural weaknesses in
the National Roads Authority. Equally important is the integrity of the
Malawi's public procurement system, which accounts for an estimated 7-8w
of GDP. Procurement systems are considered captured to varying degrees,
resulting in problems of corruption and collusion involving Government
officials. Some of the more high profile cases of corruption in
procurement concerns the award of illegal and inflated contracts for
unfinished and spurious works in the education sector, equivalent of MK
187 million, which is approximately 0.4w of GDP. Anecdotal evidence
suggests that payment of kickbacks of approximately 5-15t of the value of
contracts are not unusual. Instances of civil servants owning companies
that bid for Government contracts also implies numerous instances of
conflict of interest. While further empirical analysis is needed, the
practice of petty bribery including speed money and informal fees in
service delivery is also widely acknowledged.2.3 Lessons learned and
implications for strategic sequencingThe Government has shared a
Cabinet-approved paper on Public Sector Reform with the donor community at
the May 2000 CG Meetings in Lilongwe. The strategy paper argued inter
alia for a "comprehensive approach" to public sector reform in order
ensure that mutually reinforcing initiatives delivery a system-wide
impact. At the same the time, the 1995-2000 reform experience indicates
that strategic sequencing is equally important in a setting that has
historically lacked adequate implementation and coordination capacity.
Furthermore, there is growing recognition on the part of the Government
and its development partners that institutional reforms place a premium on
credible commitment at the political and technocratic levels. Certain
approaches to sequencing are more likely than others to generate credible
commitment for 'new rules of the game' such as compliance with budget
procedures, or adherence and enforcement of new performance criteria for
civil servants. Building on these lessons, the Government has begun to
articulate elements of a sequencing strategy that unbundles and then
prioritizes budgetary and administrative reforms (see table
below).According to the Project Concept Paper for FIMTAP, the Government
aims, first, to focus on enhancing expenditure accountability through
improved budget implementation (Phase 1 in the table). Subsequent efforts
to improve frontline performance by support wage policy reforms in
combination with the role restructuring of line agencies in the context of
decentralization. This formulation reflects Malawi's own experience with
- 4 -



trying to carry multiple reform activities simultaneously with limited
capacity and in some cases, waning political commitment. It also based on
the emerging consensus view that a strong fiscal track-record in terms of
aggregate discipline and strategic prioritization would provide a robust
foundation for longer term administrative reforms, for which clear
political commitment is still required. The following section describes
how the proposed FIMTAP would support the budgetary and financial
management aspects of the Government's public sector reform agenda.
2. Objectives
The project's overall objective is to assist Malawi in promoting the
effective and accountable use of public expenditures through improved
budget implementation and increased transparency of government
institutions. Increased expenditure accountability in priority sectors
would promote frontline service delivery performance, and thereby
contribute to poverty reduction. The project will focus on expenditure
accountability by (i) improving management systems and information flows;
(ii) strengthening incentives for compliance; (iii) strengthening
oversight and economic governance; and (iv) developing human resources
critical to effective public resource management.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has been providing support to Malawi public sector reform agenda
since the early 1990s. In addition to supporting aspects of civil service
reform and public sector capacity building under IDP2, IDA financed
diagnostic work underpinning the GOM's framework for financial management
reforms. In addition, it supported the piloting of IFMIS. Revision of
financial regulations were also financed under FRDPIII. Policy dialogue
on budgetary reforms have been ongoing as well.The Bank's contribution to
the formulation and design of FIMTAP draws on lessons from its past
involvement with institutional reforms in Malawi, international experience
on budgetary reforms (including IFMIS implementation), as well as more
recent thinking on strategic sequencing of MTEFs (see 2001 PER).
4. Description
The proposed FITMAP is to be designed as the first leg of IDA's response
to the client's proposals for carrying forward public sector reforms in
Malawi. Specifically, FIMTAP will support the Government's strategic
priorities of strengthening budget implementation and expenditure
accountability as a basis for building the credibility of Malawi's budget
system. Prospects and modalities for IDA involvement in other aspects of
Malawi's public sector agenda, such as administrative and civil service
reform, will be further explored in the course of the ongoing GOM-Bank
dialogue. It is envisaged that the overall objective of FIMTAP will be
achieved through four components:1. Improving management systems and
information flows2. Promoting good financial management practices3.
Strengthening oversight and economic governance4. Developing human
resources
1. Improving management systems and information flows:
- IFMIS roll-out
- WAN development and maintenance
2. Promoting good financial managment practices:
- Performance contracting
- Professional safeguards in the civil service
- Internal audit
-5-



3. Strengthening oversight and economic governance:
- External audit
- Public Accounts Committee
- Office of the Ombudsman
- Civil society monitoring (client and expenditure tracking surveys)
4. Developing human resources:
- Distance Learning Center
- Training Fund
- The accounting profession
5. PPF
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
IDA                      20
Total Project Cost       20
6. Implementation
The institutional and implementation arrangements reflect the GOM's
recognition of the importance to ensure close working relationships among
the staff involved in implementing various components of the proposed
project. Given the project framework, it is envisaged that management and
administration of project activities will be the responsibility of the
Public Sector Management Improvement Unit (PSMIU). PSMIU was established
under the Second Institutional Development Project (IDP2) with the main
purpose of ensuring successful and timely execution of the IDP2.Under the
proposed project, PSMIU will continue to carryout the following main
functions: (i) ensuring the timely and appropriate procurement of all
technical assistance, equipment, training, and related services required
for the successful execution of the proposed project; (ii) ensuring the
timely identification and resolution of project execution issues and the
optimal application of successful improvement measures; (iii) evaluating
the overall performance of the proposed project, its individual components
and project elements, providing regular reports on project issues and
progress; (iv) keeping and maintaining project accounts; and (v)
coordinating and preparing annual reports, audit reports and work plans.
Component coordinators will have primary responsibility for undertaking
regular monitoring and evaluation through timely submission of quarterly
and annual progress reports and work plans.The PSMIU is supervised by the
Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC) under the Deputy Secretary to
the President and Cabinet (DSPC), who will serve as the GOM Task Manager
of FIMTAP. The Project Office will also require a Project Manager and a
small number of support staff. At appraisal, assurances from GOM will be
sought to ensure the effective functioning of the PSMIU throughout the
life of the project through provision of adequate budgetary resources.
Assurances will from GOM will also be sought to ensure that appropriate
procedures for the transfer of the counterpart funds to PSMIU are fully
agreed and in place by project effectiveness.
7. Sustainability
SEE BELOW
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The following lessons from the public sector reform experience in
developed and developing countries have been identified and incorporated
in project design:(i) Government ownership and commitment is key to
- 6 -



institutional reforms. Complex public sector and institutional reforms
place a premium on ownership and commitment at the highest levels. Key
components of FIMTAP such as IFMIS have received significant high level
support.(ii) Sequencing of institutional reforms improves credibility of
the budget process. Experience across African countries suggests that
MTEF exercises often lack credibility when in-year budget implementation
is poor. Increasingly, reforming governments are focusing on building the
credibility of the annual budget process by focusing on downstream
processes such execution, monitoring, and accountability. FIMTAP supports
this strategic shift towards building systems and strengthening
institutions that improve budget implementation, before investing more
heavily in elaborated medium-term planning exercises.(iii) IFMIS
implementation should integrate IT and institutional reform concerns. The
risks of attempting to achieve a 'technological quick fix' through IFMIS
implementation is now widely recognized. The institutional and capacity
building underpinnings of sound financial management provide the basis for
successful automation. The data management and capacity building elements
of the IFMIS exercise under Component 1 and mutually-reinforcing
institutional reforms under Component 2 and 3 aim to correct against any
potential IT bias.(iv) Public sector training should be conducted on an
agency-wide, demand-driven, and cost-recovery basis. Historically,
entrepreneurial individuals in the public sector have been able to seek
out training opportunities in developing countries. The binding capacity
constraint on frontline performance, however, is training that is in line
with institutional demands or agency-wide and objectives. In addition,
various instruments such as matching grant facilities have been developed
to ensure that training is increasingly undertaken with some element of
cost-recovery.(v) Implementation targets should be realistic. Overly
complex design and ambitious implementation targets are unrealistic for
capacity-strapped beneficiary agencies. This lead to low disbursements
during the early stages of project implementation as well as delays in
resolving procurement-related issues. The proposed FIMTAP will identify
outputs/outcomes based on reasonable assumptions and careful analysis will
be carried out during preparation to ensure that relevant stakeholders are
fully involved in target-setting. Bank-client communication on procurement
issues will be more vigorously facilitated by Country Office personnel.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  n/a
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Navin Girishankar
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:
Fax:
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
-7-



1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending September 14, 2001.
- 8 -



