Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3734 MAI 
 
Agreement Providing for the  
Amendment and Restatement of  
the Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Financial Management, Transparency and Accountability Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 20, 2006 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
CREDIT NUMBER 3734 MAI 
AGREEMENT, dated July 20, 2006,
 
between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI  
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
(the Association) (hereinafter referred to as the Agreement Providing for the Amendment 
and Restatement of the Development Credit Agreement). 
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Association have agreed to amend the 
Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association dated April 
24, 2003, as amended (hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement) in 
the manner hereinafter set forth; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
 
Section 1.01. The Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended and 
restated so as to read as set forth in the Annex hereto. 
Section 1.02. 
This Agreement shall become effective upon signature by the 
parties. 
 
Page  3
-
3
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Lilongwe, Malawi, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
By /s/ Goodall E. Gondwe 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Michael Baxter 
 
 
 
 Authorized 
Representative 
Page  4
-
4
-
ANNEX 
TO AGREEMENT PROVIDING FOR AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT OF 
THE DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3734 MAI 
 
AMENDED AND RESTATED 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
(Financial Management, Transparency and Accountability Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 24, 2003 
as amended and restated on July 20, 2006 
 
Page  5
-
5
-
CREDIT NUMBER 3734 MAI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 24, 2003, as amended and restated on 
 
July 20, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS as the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and  
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
October 6, 1999), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the  meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Agreement Providing for the Amendment and Restatement of the 
Development Credit Agreement” means the Agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association dated July 20, 2006; 
(b) 
“Annual Work Plan” means the collective plan and budget prepared 
annually by the FIMTAP Secretariat for the Project; 
(c) 
“CBF” or “Capacity Building Facility” means the facility referred to in 
Part A.1 (f) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for the provision of training in public sector 
management to relevant staff of the Borrower; 
Page  6
-
6
-
(d) 
“DISTMS” means the Department of Information Systems and 
Technology Management Services within the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(e) 
“Financial Management Sub-Committee” means the sub-committee to be 
established by the Borrower referred to in paragraph 4 of Section II of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
(g) 
“FY” or “Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on 
July 1 and ending on the following June 30; 
(h) 
“FIMTAP Secretariat” means the Project coordination unit, to be 
established within the Borrower’s Office of the President and Cabinet for the purpose of 
overall implementation and monitoring of the Project referred to in paragraph 6 of 
Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(i) 
“GWAN” means Government Wide Area Network, a computer network 
established for the purpose of supporting integrated information systems; 
(j) 
“Technical Committee” means the committee to be established by the 
Borrower referred to in paragraph 5 of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(k) 
“IFMIS” means the Borrower’s Integrated Financial Management 
Information System; 
(l) 
“MK” means Malawi Kwacha, the Borrower's currency;  
(m) 
“MTEF” means the Borrower’s Medium Term Expenditure Framework; 
(n) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(o) 
“NAO” means the Borrower’s National Audit Office; 
(p) 
“PIF” or “Performance Incentive Facility” means the facility referred to 
in Part C of Section II of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, established for the provision of 
grants for Subprojects as an incentive for the Project’s implementing agencies to fulfill 
their performance monitoring indicators for each Project Quarter as reflected in the 
Annual Work Plan; 
(q) 
“PIP” or “Project Implementation Plan” means the implementation, 
administration, procurement and accounting manuals for the implementation of the 
Project referred to in paragraph 7 of Section II of Schedule 4 of this Agreement; 
Page  7
-
7
-
(r) 
“Project Preparation Facility” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter of agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on September 27, 2001 and on behalf of the Borrower on 
October 10, 2001; 
(s) 
“Project Quarter” means the three-month period beginning from the 
effective date of the Agreement Providing for the Amendment and Restatement of the 
Development Credit Agreement and ending three months thereafter (the First Project 
Quarter) and any subsequent three-month period thereafter;  
(t) 
“Retrenchment Plan” means the plan dated March 22, 2006, submitted 
by the Borrower to the Association, outlining its proposed retrenchment program to be 
implemented under Part A.2 (a) of the Project, as set forth in Schedule 2 of this 
Agreement;  
(u) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(v)  
“Steering Committee” means the committee to be established by the 
Borrower referred to in paragraph 3 of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(w) 
“Sub-Component Work Plan” means the work plan prepared annually by 
the relevant implementing agency of the Borrower for a sub-component of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 of this Agreement; and  
 
(x) 
“Subproject” means a specific additional activity within a sub-
component approved for financing out of the Performance Incentive Facility in 
furtherance of the Project’s development objectives following the fulfillment of 
performance monitoring indicators agreed for a Project Quarter by a Project 
implementing agency. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventeen million and six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 17,600,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
Page  8
-
8
-
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars one separate special deposit account for the Project (hereinafter referred to as 
Special Account), in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled. 
Section 2.03.  
The Closing Date shall be March 1, 2008 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04.  
(a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set 
as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of 
June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05.  
The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Page  9
-
9
-
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2013 and ending January 15, 2043. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2023 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Page  10
-
10
-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
technical, administrative and environmental practices, and shall provide promptly as 
needed the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project; and 
 
(b) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02.  
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03.  
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a
format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
Page  11
-
11
-
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each Fiscal Year annually audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Page  12
-
12
-
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a financial 
monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date: Termination 
Section 5.01.  
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i)  of this Agreement have 
been appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement;  
 
(b) 
the Borrower has adopted the PIP, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association; 
 
(c) 
the Borrower has established a financial management system and a 
procurement management system, in form and substance acceptable to the Association; 
 
(d) 
the Borrower has appointed a Project Manager for the FIMTAP 
Secretariat with experience acceptable to the Association; 
Page  13
-
13
-
(e) 
the Borrower has appointed a financial management specialist, a 
procurement specialist and a monitoring and evaluation specialist for the FIMTAP 
Secretariat, all with experience acceptable to the Association and in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
the Borrower has prepared the IFMIS action plan in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(g) 
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and made the initial 
deposit referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Page  14
-
14
-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
P.O. Box 30049 
 
Capital City 
 
Lilongwe 3 
 
Malawi 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
FINANCE              
 
44407 MI 
 
(265) 1 789173 
 
Lilongwe 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street NW  
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 64145 
(MCI) 
Page  15
-
15
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
By 
   
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
   
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  16
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods 
 
         
3,720,000 
 
100%    
 
(2) 
Consultant’s services,                         8,750,000  
 
 
100%   
 
audits, and training    
 
 
 
 
 
(3)       Operating Costs 
 
 
3,530,000      
 
100% 
 
(4) 
Refunding of Project                              217,421 
    
 
Amount due pursuant to 
 
Preparation Advance 
 
 
Section 2.02 (c) 
 
of
this Agreement 
 
(5)      Unallocated   
 842,579   
 
 
100% 
 
(6)       Subprojects   
 
 
 330,000 
 
        
100% 
 
(7)       Severance Payments  
 
 210,000 
 
         
100% 
 
under Part A.2 (a) of the 
 
Project                                               _________ 
 TOTAL 
17,600,000 
 
======== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
Page  17
-
17
-
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  and 
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means: (i) the incremental expenses incurred 
by the Borrower on account of the Project implementation for the maintenance of the 
FIMTAP Secretariat and the Steering and Technical Committees, including information 
systems, office supplies and maintenance, office support  staff, per diem, maintenance of 
equipment, office rent, and telephone and other communication charges, but excluding 
salaries of officials of the Borrower; or (ii) with respect to Part A.2 (b) of the Project, 
termination benefits of locally recruited foreign mission staff who are not staff of the 
Borrower’s public service, reasonable maintenance costs of foreign mission buildings, 
and reasonable repatriation costs pertaining to travel, shipping, subsistence and 
resettlement allowances. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR8,000, may be made on account of payment made for expenditures before that date 
but after March 1, 2003.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of the Agreement 
Providing for the Amendment and Restatement of the Development Credit Agreement 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of  
SDR 2,450,000 may be made in respect of Categories 2, 3 and 7 on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after May 1, 2005. 
5. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (ii) services from consultant firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (iii) services from individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (iv) training; (v) Operating Costs;  
(vi) Subprojects; and (vii) severance payments, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
 
Page  18
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve civil service and 
public expenditure management for better allocation and utilization of public resources. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Public Service Management and Right-sizing 
1.  
Public Service Management
(a) Performance 
Contracting
Strengthening the Borrower’s performance 
contracting system by (i) implementing performance contracting guidelines and 
procedures including the carrying out of annual performance reviews for all public 
servants employed on contracts and monitoring of such implementation; and 
 
(ii) establishing dispute resolution procedures, all through the provision of technical 
advisory services. 
(b) Personnel 
Audit 
Carrying out of establishment audits to 
determine the functional establishments required for all of the Borrower’s ministries, 
departments and agencies, through the provision of technical advisory services.  
(c) Strategic 
Planning
Strengthening the Borrower’s strategic planning 
ability through: (i) development of strategic plans  for its ministries; (ii) capacity building 
of the relevant staff of the Borrower; (iii) establishment of linkages between strategic 
planning, budget development and execution processes, and service delivery strategies; 
and (iv) carrying out of annual progress reviews on the development, implementation and 
effectiveness of strategic plans in association with the MTEF cycle, all through the 
provision of technical advisory services.  
(d) 
Human Resource Management Information System (HRMIS)
Implementation of an efficient human resource management information system 
to improve: (i) payroll systems and establishment controls to ensure conformity with  
budgeted public service establishments; (ii) wage bill control and eliminate payroll 
related fraud and irregularities; and (iii) public service human resource record 
management, all through the provision of technical advisory services. 
(e) 
Economic Policy Support
Provision of economic policy support to 
the Borrower’s MOF to: (i) improve information flows on debt and aid; (ii) monitor and 
Page  19
-
19
-
report on donor disbursements and project implementation; (iii) enhance negotiating 
skills on economic policy issues; and (iv) carry out economic policy research, all through 
the provision of technical advisory services. 
(f) 
Capacity Building Facility
Establishment of a Capacity Building 
Facility for 
training of staff of the Borrower’s ministries, departments and agencies on 
public sector management skills supporting accountability, such as financial 
management, procurement, records management, information technology, strategic 
management, data analysis, project management, leadership skills and human resource 
management. 
2. 
Public Service Right-sizing
(a) 
Implementation of a retrenchment program for senior public servants as 
set out in the Retrenchment Plan, through the financing of severance packages. 
(b) 
Rationalization of the Borrower’s foreign missions by: (i) closing down 
its missions in Paris, Ottawa, Nairobi and Tripoli; and (ii) reducing staff by repatriating 
approximately twenty-three staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Tokyo, Addis 
Ababa, Pretoria, Johannesburg, Maputo, Lusaka, New York, London, Harare, Cairo, 
Brussels, Dar es Salaam, and Washington D.C, all through the financing of related 
Operating Costs. 
Part B
:
Improving Expenditure Management
1. IFMIS
Provide limited support for the development of the IFMIS physical infrastructure 
through the acquisition of goods. 
2. GWAN
(a) 
Expansion of the Borrower’s computer network by: (i) installing  
fiber optic network cables between Capital Hill and the City Center in 
 
Lilongwe; (ii) installing wireless local area network (LANS) equipment consisting of 
transceivers connected via ethernet cables to servers or other segments of the network 
outside Lilongwe; and (iii) installing radio, microwave and laser technologies systems to 
complement the wireless network in the other regions in the territory of the Borrower, all 
through the provision of technical advisory services and acquisition of goods. 
 
(b) 
installation and operation of uninterruptible power supply (UPS) units 
and generators to provide electrical power to computer and other devices during power 
Page  20
-
20
-
shortage or irregularities, through the provision of technical advisory services, and 
acquisition of goods. 
 
(c) 
installation of virus detection computer software, and design and  
implementation of computer hardware and software security systems, through the 
provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of computer software and 
equipment. 
 
(d) 
provision of training to DISTMS staff and establishment of management 
units to oversee the utilization, standards and maintenance of GWAN, through the 
provision of technical advisory services. 
3. Internal 
Audit
(a) Stren
gthening the Borrower’s internal audit function through the 
establishment of an internal audit department and its respective manuals, terms of 
reference and operating guidelines, through the provision of technical advisory services, 
and acquisition of computer software and equipment. 
(b) 
carrying out of a training needs assessment and provision of training on 
basic audit, information technology, management, report writing and investigation.
 
(c) 
design and implementation of a governance structure that provides for 
improved internal processes and procedures, through the provision of technical advisory 
services. 
 
(d) 
establishment of an internal audit committee, including the development 
of terms of reference, a manual and operating guidelines, through the provision of 
technical advisory services. 
4. 
Public Procurement Capacity Building
Provision of support to the Borrower’s Office of the Director of Public 
Procurement (ODPP) through: (a) the establishment of a management information system 
and website for public procurement; (b) monitoring of the implementation of the  
Borrower’s Public Procurement Act in at least forty percent (40%) of the Borrower’s 
government entities; (c) finalization of legislation on asset management and related 
storage instructions and manuals; (d) capacity building of 
inter alia
 the ODPP in its core 
areas of operation, internal procurement committees (IPCs), and specialized procurement 
units (SPUs); (e) implementation of a basic procurement training program to develop a 
cadre of procurement specialists to address procurement matters in IPCs and SPUs of 
government entities; (f) facilitation of the establishment of a professional body for 
procurement personnel; and (g) capacity building in undertaking procurement audits in 
selected government entities. 
 
Page  21
-
21
-
Part C
:
Performance Incentive Facility
Establishment of a Performance Incentive Facility for the financing of 
Subprojects.  
Part D
:
Project Management 
Supporting the administration, coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and 
supervisi
on
of
the Project by the FIMTAP Secretariat staff and the Project’s Technical, 
Steering and Financial Management Sub-Committees through the provision, as the case 
may be, of technical advisory service, training, goods and Operating Costs.  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 1, 2007. 
Page  22
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999  (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of  
Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  23
-
23
-
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which should be procured as an extension of an existing contract or must 
be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment or are 
of a proprietary nature or must be procured from a particular supplier as a condition of a 
performance guarantee and costing $1,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, 
with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Office equipment and spare parts estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured from IAPSO in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  24
-
24
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for audits and technical services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  25
-
25
-
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Services for IFIMIS which are estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent 
per contract, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.   
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
Page  26
-
26
-
the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts.   
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  27
-
27
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Section I
.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
1. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about August 1, 2005, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by October 1, 2005, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
2. Compliance 
Audits
Without limitation to the provisions of Article 4 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall ensure that semi-annual audits are carried out for purposes of checking on 
inter alia
 
internal control systems, compliance with the financial covenants set forth herein, the 
usage of statements of expenditure, and the operation of the Special Account.  The said 
audits shall be carried out in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association.  
The semi-annual audit reports will be furnished to the Association no later than two (2) 
months after the end of the relevant six month period.  The said semi-annual audits may 
be carried out by NAO, or if it is jointly determined, that NAO cannot carry out the 
separate semi-annual audits in a timely fashion, they may be carried out by qualified 
consultants hired by NAO under terms of reference that are acceptable to the Association.
 
Page  28
-
28
-
Section II
.
Project Oversight and Administration
3. Steering 
Committee
.
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the 
Project the Steering Committee under terms of reference and with membership 
satisfactory to the Association.  The Steering Committee shall provide oversight for the 
Project and regularly review progress in Project implementation. 
4. 
Financial Management Sub-Committee
.
The Borrower shall maintain until 
completion of the Project the Financial Management Sub-Committee under terms of 
reference and with membership satisfactory to the Association to oversee the financial 
management of the Project.  The Financial Management Sub-Committee shall comprise 
representatives of MOF, Office of the President and Cabinet, Office of the Accountant 
General, NAO and representatives of professional organizations in the territory of the 
Borrower. 
5. Technical 
Committee
.
The Borrower shall maintain the Technical Committee 
until the completion of the Project under terms of reference and with membership that is 
satisfactory to the Association to 
inter alia
:
(a) ensure the effective management of 
resources under the Project; (b) assist with the preparation of Sub-component Work Plans 
for consolidation by the FIMTAP Secretariat into Annual Work Plans; and (c) monitor 
and evaluate Project implementation including the preparation of quarterly and annual 
progress reports. The Technical Committee shall comprise the Sub-component managers. 
6. FIMTAP 
Secretariat
.
The Borrower shall maintain the FIMTAP Secretariat in 
the Office of the President and Cabinet, with the following staff: a Project Manager, 
financial management specialist, a procurement specialist and a monitoring and 
evaluation specialist. The FIMTAP Secretariat shall be responsible for 
inter alia
:
(a) ensuring the timely and appropriate procurement of all technical assistance, 
equipment, training and related services required for the successful implementation of the 
Project; (b) ensuring the timely identification and resolution of Project implementation 
issues; (c) evaluating the overall performance of the Project as a whole and on an 
individual component basis; (d) preparing progress reports; (e) maintaining financial 
records; and (f) preparing Annual Work Plans. 
7. 
Project Implementation Plan
.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in 
accordance with the PIP, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not 
amend or waive any provisions of the PIP if such amendment or waiver would in the 
opinion of the Association materially or adversely affect Project implementation. 
Section III
.
Training
8. 
The Borrower shall carry out all training under the Project in accordance with a 
training plan approved by the Association, which shall include, 
inter alia
:
(a) the training, 
workshops or study tours proposed; (b) the personnel to be trained; (c) the institutions 
Page  29
-
29
-
which will carry out the training; (d) the duration of the proposed training; and (e) the 
estimated costs of the training. 
  9. 
The Borrower shall submit all terms of references for support to training 
institutions under the Capacity Building Facility to the Association for prior review.  
Section IV
.
Annual Work Plans
10. 
The FIMTAP Secretariat shall not later than June 30 of each Fiscal Year during 
the implementation of the Project or such later date as the Association may agree prepare 
and furnish to the Association for its approval an Annual Work Plan to be carried out in 
the following Fiscal Year, modifying such plan in such manner as shall be satisfactory to 
the Association. 
Section V
.
Performance Incentive Facility
11. 
(a) 
Following successful fulfillment of the performance monitoring 
indicators set forth in the Annual Work Plan for each Project Quarter, the relevant 
ministry, department or agency of the Borrower responsible for the implementation of a 
particular Project sub-component may submit a Subproject proposal for the approval of 
the FIMTAP Secretariat.  The Project’s monitoring and evaluation specialist shall 
monitor the fulfillment of all the performance monitoring indicators for each Project 
Quarter and prepare a quarterly monitoring and evaluation report for submission to the 
Project manager, the Association and the Steering Committee on which basis the 
approval of a Subproject for funding shall be made by the chairperson of the Steering 
Committee based on the recommendations of the Project Manager. 
 
(b) 
Each Subproject shall be financed on a grant basis and shall be for an 
amount that shall not exceed $5,000.  All Subprojects must be in furtherance of the 
Project’s objectives and all goods and services financed must be procured in accordance 
with the Association’s procurement procedures as set forth in Schedule 3 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The FIMTAP Secretariat shall report to the Steering Committee and the 
Technical Committee on a quarterly basis on progress made in the financing of 
Subprojects under the Performance Incentive Facility. 
Page  30
-
30
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (6) and (7) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000 in respect of the Special Account, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR10,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify; and 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
Page  31
-
31
-
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the  Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the  Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the  eligible Categories, and in the  equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the  Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and Account for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the  Special Account for the Project, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
Page  32
-
32
-
such amounts remaining on deposit in the  Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  33
-
33
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
1. 
Annual performance reviews carried out for all public servants under contract. 
2. 
Completion of personnel audits for all ministries. 
3. 
All ministries, departments and agencies of the Borrower provide input to the 
budget development process based on strategic plans reviewed annually in coordination 
with the MTEF. 
4. 
Officers occupying positions identified as redundant are retrenched in accordance 
with the approved Retrenchment Plan. 
5. 
Trade and commercial functions in at least four major foreign missions enhanced. 
6. 
HRMIS system operational in all ministries. 
7. 
Economic advisory services in the Ministry of Finance, especially to the Minister 
of Finance, are enhanced.  
8. 
Installation of three back-up generator sets for the IFMIS network. 
9. 
All staff at Director level and above in ministries, departments and agencies of 
the Borrower have full access to the HRMIS, intranet and email through the GWAN. 
10. 
Procurement audits verify that 
at least forty percent (40%) of the Borrower’s 
procurement entities are correctly implementing the provisions of the Public Procurement 
Act. 
11. 
Internal audit facilitates improvements in internal expenditure controls in at least 
five ministries.  
12. 
The Capacity Building Facility trains at least one hundred civil servants to 
maintain improvements and reforms made in expenditure and public sector management. 
13.  
Quarterly performance targets for the Project sub-components as reflected in the 
Annual Work Plan are met at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the time on average 
following implementation of the Performance Incentive Facility. 
14. 
Efficient and effective management of FIMTAP’s financial management, 
procurement, monitoring and evaluation, component and sub-component coordination 
and reporting functions by the FIMTAP Secretariat.
Page  34
-
34
-
