                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR00001458



        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
           (IDA-3734A, IDA-37340, TRUST FUND NO: TF 90947)

                                     ON A

                                   CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.6 MILLION
                      (US$23.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF MALAWI

                                     FOR

            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, TRANSPARENCY, AND

                  ACCOUNTABILITY PROJECT (FIMTAP)

                                APRIL 30, 2010




Africa Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Unit
Southern Africa (AFCS2)
Africa Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective September 2009)
                       Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha
                           MWK I = US$0.007112
                           US$ 1 = MWK 140.6005


                               FISCAL YEAR

                                July I - June 30

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACCA     Association of Chartered Certified Accountants Affiliates
AG       Accountant General
AGD      Accountant General's Department
APAC     Association of Public Accounts Committees
AWP      Annual Work Plan
BC       Budget Committee
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CABS     Common Approach to Budgetary Support
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CIDA     Canadian International Development Agency
CPPR     Country Portfolio Performance Review
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DFID     Department for International Development
DHRMD    Department of Human Resources Management and Development
DO       Development Objective
EC       European Commission
FIMTAP   Financial Management, Transparency, and Accountability Project
FMR      Financial Monitoring Report
GFEM     Group on Financial and Economic Management
GOM      Government of Malawi
GWAN     Government Wide Area Network
HIPC     Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HRMIS    Human Resource Management Information System
HRP      Human Resource Planning
IA       Internal Audit
IAU      Internal Audit Unit
IDA      International Development Association
IDP2     Second Institutional Development Project
IFMIS    Integrated Financial Management Information System
IMF      International Monetary Fund
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICT      Information Communication Technology
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MEP&D    Ministry of Economic Planning and Development
MGDS     Malawi Growth and Development Strategy
MIM      Malawi Institute of Management
MIPS    Malawi Institute of Procurement and Supply
MOFEP   Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MPRSP   Malawi Poverty Reduction Support Paper
MTEF    Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
MTR     Mid-term Review
NAO     National Audit Office
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
ODPP    Office of the Director of Public Procurement
OPC     Office of the President and Cabinet
PAC     Public Accounts Committee
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PEFA    Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PER     Public Expenditure Review
PIF     Performance Incentive Facility
PSCS    Procurement and Supply Common Service
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
RNE     Royal Norwegian Embassy
SADC    Southern African Development Community
SDI     Staff Development Institute
TOR     Terms of Reference
TTL     Task Team Leader
UNDP    United Nations Development Programme
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
WTO     World Trade Organization




                Vice President
                          :       Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
              Country Director
                          :       Luiz A. Pereira Da Silva
               Sector Manager
                          :       Anand Rajaram
         Task Team Leader :       Ross Worthington
                             MALAWI
  FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, TRANSPARENCY, AND ACCOUNTABILITY PROJECT


                                                   CONTENTS
Data sheet
  A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i 
  B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i 
  C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i 
  D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii 
  E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii 
  F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... ii 
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................. vii 
  I. Disbursement Profile .................................................................................................. 1 
  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1 
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 10 
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 16 
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 26 
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 26 
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 30 
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 31 
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 32 
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 33 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 46 
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 47 
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 49 
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 50 
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 51 
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 54 
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 55 
Annex 10: Calculation of Weighted Rating ...................................................................... 56 
MAP NO. .......................................................................................................................... 57 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          FINANCIAL
                                                                          MANAGEMENT,
                                                                          TRANSPARENCY
Country:                Malawi                  Project Name:
                                                                          AND
                                                                          ACCOUNTABILITY
                                                                          PROJECT (FIMTAP)
                                                                          IDA-37340,IDA-
Project ID:             P078408                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          3734A,TF-90947
ICR Date:               04/30/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          MALAWI
Original Total
                        XDR 17.6M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 17.6M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 17.6M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Office of President and Cabinet
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:                      Effectiveness:            06/02/2003        06/02/2003
Appraisal:             09/16/2002    Restructuring(s):                           06/29/2006
Approval:              03/06/2003    Mid-term Review:          11/05/2007        03/31/2008
                                     Closing:                  03/01/2008        09/01/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory          Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:



                                                i
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           No                                                 None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       100                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                  20                  20
Other public sector governance                                           20                  20
Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring                                20                  20
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                         40                  40
procurement

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:              Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:            Luiz A. Pereira da Silva             Darius Mans
Sector Manager:              Anand Rajaram                        Brian David Levy
Project Team Leader:         Ross Worthington                     Robert L. Floyd
ICR Team Leader:             Ross Worthington
ICR Primary Author:          Sati Achath


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To assist the Borrower to improve civil service and public expenditure management for
better allocation and utilization of public resources.



                                                  ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve civil service and public
expenditure management for better allocation and utilization of public resources.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target       Completion or
                                              documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 : Annual performance reviews carried out for all public servants under contract.
                                                                            The subcomponent
                                                                            is completed.
                                                                            Annual
                                          Performance
                                                                            performance
                                          reviews conducted
                                                                            reviews are now
                Annual performance        every year in
Value                                                                       done for all staff
                reviews not consistently accordance with
quantitative or                                                             not only those on
                conducted for all public the guidelines for
Qualitative)                                                                contract. The
                servants under contract. all public servants
                                                                            Performance
                                          under contract by
                                                                            Management
                                          December 2008.
                                                                            Handbook has been
                                                                            finished and
                                                                            implemented.
Date achieved 06/27/2006                  12/31/2008                        09/01/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Completion of personnel audits for all ministries.
                                                                            All ministries
                                                                            audited in 2006. An
                                                                            extra personnel
                                                                            audit to validate the
                Personnel audits rarely Personnel audits
Value                                                                       new HRMIS
                done under decentralized completed for all
quantitative or                                                             database was
                payment and               ministries by
Qualitative)                                                                completed in June
                establishments system. December 2007
                                                                            2008 and the
                                                                            HRMIS updated,
                                                                            deleting about 700
                                                                            staff.
Date achieved 06/27/2006                  12/30/2007                        04/16/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                All ministries, departments and agencies of the Borrower provide input to the
Indicator 3 : budget development process based on strategic plans reviewed annually in
                coordination with the MTEF.
Value           Ministry strategic plans Ministry strategic                 Strategic plans
quantitative or are not used to guide     plans are used to                 aligned to the PRSP


                                               iii
Qualitative)    funding priorities in      guide funding                      and budget process
                budget discussions         priorities in budget               for all 22 Ministries
                between line ministries    discussions                        and departments
                and the Ministry of        between all line                   developed. In FY09
                Finance.                   ministries and                     budgets developed
                                           MEPD & MOF                         based on SPs but
                                           by FY2009 budget                   MTEF not fully
                                           preparation.                       functional.
Date achieved 06/27/2006                   07/01/2008                         04/16/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Officers occupying positions identified as redundant are retrenched in accordance
Indicator 4 :
                with the approved Retrenchment Plan.
                                                                              Government review
                                                                              of the 10 targeted
                                          All officers
                                                                              officers revealed all
Value           Officers not retrenched. included in the
                                                                              had left service or
quantitative or Subcomponent to be        retrenchment plan
                                                                              died. Government
Qualitative)    dropped.                  are retenched by
                                                                              requested to drop
                                          April 7, 2007.
                                                                              subcomponent and
                                                                              re-allocate funds
Date achieved 06/27/2006                  04/07/2007                          04/16/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                The Capacity Building Facility trains at least one hundred civil servants to
Indicator 5 : maintain improvements and reforms made in expenditure and public sector
                management.
                                                                              1697 staff trained in
                                                                              financial
                                                                              management,
                                                                              procurement,
                Less than 100 civil       At least 100 civil                  records
Value
                servants trained to       servants trained to                 management, IT,
quantitative or
                maintain capacity         maintain capacity                   strategic
Qualitative)
                building reforms.         building reforms.                   management, data
                                                                              analysis, project
                                                                              management,
                                                                              HRM, law. Target
                                                                              exceeded.
Date achieved 06/27/2006                  03/31/2009                          04/16/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                iv
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                               Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                 approval                        Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                documents)                       Target Years
                Improve payroll systems and establishment controls to ensure conformity with
Indicator 1 :
                budgeted public service establishments.
                                                                              HRMIS integrity
                                            HRMIS based on
                                                                              review completed
                                            reliable personnel
                                                                              and provided to
                                            audit data and
                New HRMIS system                                              donors. OPC
                                            conforming to
                introduced to centralize                                      implementing
Value                                       accounting IT
                payroll and establishment                                     recommendations
(quantitative                               payroll standards
                control but consistent                                        from March 2009.
or Qualitative)                             fully operational
                payroll and establishment                                     Payroll
                                            with payroll
                discrepancies remain.                                         discrepancies of
                                            discrepancies of
                                                                              <5% were being
                                            <5% by March
                                                                              achieved by March
                                            2009.
                                                                              2009.
Date achieved 06/27/2006                    03/31/2009                        04/16/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Monitor and report on donor disbursements and project implementation.
                                                                              Indicator achieved.
                                                                              Debt and Aid
                                                                              Report being
                                                                              compiled and
                                            A reliable aid flow
                                                                              publicly provided
                Tracking of donor           management
                                                                              every 6 months.
                sourced funds and debt system linked to a
                                                                              Extra-budgetary
Value           poorly done with no         effective debt
                                                                              support also being
(quantitative   reliable tracking system management
                                                                              tracked and
or Qualitative) in place or reliable inputs system provides
                                                                              reported on. The
                made to budget              reliable input to
                                                                              web-based Aid
                implementation.             the budget cycle
                                                                              Management
                                            by FY09 budget.
                                                                              Platform has been
                                                                              operational since
                                                                              2007 and is now
                                                                              used to manage aid.
Date achieved 06/27/2006                    07/01/2008                        04/16/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Expansion of the Borrower's computer network between Capital Hill and the City
Indicator 3 :
                Center in Lilongwe and between Lilongwe and major regional centers.
Value           Capital Hill network        GWAN fully                        Fiber optic
(quantitative   established under Bank functional and                         network, radio,



                                               v
or Qualitative) IDP 2 project with some   secure within                      microwave and
                minor extensions under    Lilongwe and                       laser technologies
                FIMTAP prior to           between Lilongwe                   systems within
                restructuring.            and major regional                 Lilongwe done.
                                          centers by March                   VSAT for regional
                                          2009 so that it can                IFMIS links done.
                                          provide public                     Procurement for
                                          finance IT                         wiring of all
                                          backbone.                          regional offices
                                                                             completed.
Date achieved 06/27/2007                   03/31/2009                        04/16/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Establishment of an internal audit committee, including the development of
Indicator 4 :
                terms of reference, a manual and operating guidelines
                                                                             All ministries have
                                                                             internal audit units
                                                                             & internal audit
                                           IACs established                  committees (IACs),
                                           in all ministries                 but only 16 of the
Value           Internal Audit
                                           and functioning in                largest MDAs out
(quantitative   Committees (IACs) not
                                           accordance with                   of 22 have
or Qualitative) established.
                                           guidelines by                     functional IACs.
                                           December, 2007.                   This ensures
                                                                             coverage of about
                                                                             75% of public
                                                                             expenditures.
Date achieved 06/27/2006                   12/28/2007                        04/16/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Monitoring of the implementation of the Borrower's Public Procurement Act in
Indicator 5 :
                at least forty percent (40%) of the Borrower's government entities.
                                                                             Indicator surpassed.
                                                                             Quarterly
                                           Quarterly                         procurement
                New Public Procurement procurement                           monitoring reports
                Act (2003) became          monitoring reports                are being received
Value
                effective in 2004 but      are being received                from 100% of
(quantitative
                monitoring of              from 100% of                      ministries and 20
or Qualitative)
                implementation was         public procuring                  other agencies.
                sporadic.                  entities by March                 Capacity building
                                           2009.                             for parastatals &
                                                                             local government
                                                                             started.
Date achieved 06/27/2006                   09/01/2009                        09/01/2009
Comments
(incl. %



                                               vi
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                              Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                       IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                          (USD millions)
  1    05/27/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.00
  2    06/30/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.00
  3    11/19/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    2.74
  4    04/05/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    3.34
  5    11/23/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    5.27
  6    06/15/2005         Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                   6.37
  7    06/16/2006         Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                   7.61
  8    06/30/2006         Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                   7.61
  9    12/26/2006         Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                 11.06
 10    02/27/2007         Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                 11.40
 11    04/23/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  11.93
 12    12/21/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  16.79
 13    06/30/2008          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  18.83
 14    11/08/2008          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  20.74
 15    06/26/2009          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  23.86


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 06/29/2006       Y       U      U            7.61


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                            Moderately Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                           Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory




                                             vii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          viii
I. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background: At appraisal, Malawi remained very poor, with difficult
development challenges exacerbated by a high incidence of HIV/AIDS, severe drought and food
shortages in 2002, heavy reliance on a few commodities, and a low skills base. Likewise, there
was increasing pressure to improve economic governance, particularly given the need to account
for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) resources, articulation of poverty reducing programs
in the Malawi Poverty Reduction Support Paper (MPRSP), and the Millennium Development
Goals.

Since its transition to multi-party democracy in the mid-1990s, Malawi had undertaken a broad
range of public sector reform initiatives covering public expenditure management, administrative
and civil service reform, capacity building, anti-corruption, and decentralization. Government had
gradually instituted a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) which sought to develop a
strategic approach to budgeting and planning. Government had purchased and was implementing
an Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) that would significantly
improve overall quality and timeliness of the government's fiscal and financial data by facilitating
transaction reporting and accounting; automating processes such as cash management,
commitment control, receipts and payments; and gradually introducing accrual accounting.
Government had also reviewed aspects of its civil service system in order to strengthen the
incentive and institutional framework with pay and grading reforms and functional reviews of
line agency roles and structures.

Significant progress had been made in ensuring that a greater share of donor financing was
recorded in the development budget, introducing program classification in the budget and
encouraging line ministries to comply with the requirements of the cash budget system. But
despite these successes, Malawi had made only modest progress in achieving fiscal discipline,
and operational efficiency in the public service.

Sector issues and Government strategy: The key sector issues were expenditure management and
accountability, particularly budget discipline, and a paucity of financial management capacity in
the public service. From 1998 Malawi had made progress in improving macroeconomic
performance, implementing structural reforms, and development of democratic institutions.
However, growth was moderate (3% to 4% per annum) and annual inflation remained high, in
part because of slippages in fiscal and monetary policies. In general terms, budgetary resources
were spread thinly, with continuing pressure to over-spend, while there continued to be large
variations between planned and actual expenditures, and non-compliance with financial rules and
regulations. In addition, poor incentives and inadequate capacity in the public sector continued to
hamper the government's ability to effectively and efficiently carry out critical functions.

Improving public sector governance had also been a priority for the Government. The Anti-
Corruption Bureau (ACB) was established under the Corrupt Practices Act. Since its
establishment, the ACB proved to be an increasingly credible mechanism for raising public
awareness about the costs of corruption, and more importantly, investigating suspected corrupt
practices by high officials. Likewise, the role of the Ombudsman was prominent, with more than


                                                 1
5,000 cases submitted annually and significant declines in mal-administration reported in some
agencies. Government had made progress in consulting civil society and steps were underway to
institutionalize regular monitoring of budget and program implementation by local communities,
NGOs, and other civil society groups.

Political context during approval and the early stage of project implementation: Project was
approved by the Bank in June 2003, and both the political and economic governance context,
deteriorated significantly in the early stages of implementation in the run up to the elections in
2004. As a result of this change in context, policy reform agenda came to a halt and donors began
to suspend their assistance in the areas of economic management and governance. At this time
concerns about procurement and other fiduciary controls in government were also raised, further
complicating the project environment. . Consequently, project implementation got affected.

Rationale for Bank assistance: The project was consistent with the Bank Group Country
Assistance Strategy1 (CAS) and the MPRSP. The project was designed to support two of the
MPRSP pillars: the human capital development (MPRSP pillar 2) and promoting good
governance (MPRSP pillar 4). By strengthening human and institutional capacity in the public
service, frontline service delivery would improve, thereby indirectly addressing the other pillars
of the MPRSP.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The objective of the project was to improve the effective and accountable use of public
expenditures through capacity building and institutional strengthening for budget implementation
and oversight and increased transparency of government institutions.

Key performance indicators were:
    Transparency in budget formulation, budget execution and budget reporting
    Professional and timely in carrying out external and internal audits, thereby ensuring
       effective utilization of resources.
    Engaged and skilled Public Accounts Committee with the capacity to undertake its
       statutory responsibilities.
    Active community-level provision of feedback to decision makers on utilization of
       resources at the sub-national level.
    Networked financial management system (IFMIS) that provides timely and quality data,
       with internal controls increasing transparency and resource impact.

1.3 Revised Project Development Objectives (PDOs) (as approved by the Board), Key
Indicators and Reasons/Justification for Restructuring

At the time of first project restructuring in July 2006, the focus of the PDO was shifted to: assist
the Borrower to improve civil service and public expenditure management for better allocation
and utilization of public resources.

Key indicators: Further, at the time of restructuring, the following set of key indicators replaced
the previous indicators, as these were found to be vague and broadly defined:



1
    Document number: IDA/R2000-224 Date of latest CAS discussion: December 21, 2000



                                                  2
        Annual performance reviews carried out for all public servants under contract.
        Completion of personnel audits for all ministries.
        All ministries, departments and agencies of the Borrower provide input to the budget
        development process based on strategic plans reviewed annually in coordination with the
        MTEF.
        Officers occupying positions identified as redundant are retrenched in accordance with
        the approved Retrenchment Plan.
        Trade and commercial functions in at least four major foreign missions enhanced.
        HRMIS system operational in all ministries.
        Economic advisory services in the Ministry of Finance, especially to the Minister of
        Finance, are enhanced.
        Installation of three back up generators sets for the IFMIS network.
        All staff at Director level and above in ministries, departments and agencies of the
        Borrower have full access to the HRMIS, intranet and email through the GWAN.
        Procurement audits verify that at least forty percent (40%) of the Borrower's procurement
        entities are correctly implementing the provisions of the Public Procurement Act.
        Internal audit facilitates improvements in internal expenditure controls in at least five
        ministries.
        The Capacity Building Facility trains at least one hundred civil servants to maintain
        improvements and reforms made in expenditure and public sector management.
        Quarterly performance targets for the Project sub-components as reflected in the Annual
        work Plan are met at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the time average following
        implementation Incentive Facility.
        Efficient and effective management of FIMTAP's financial management, procurement,
        monitoring and evaluation, component and sub-component coordination and reporting
        functions by the FIMTAP Secretariat

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The beneficiaries of the project included:
     Core economic management agencies and ministries
     Independent and Government accountability institutions
     Civil society
     Public sector agencies and their employees who will benefit from capacity building

The expected benefits of the project were: (i) increased resource predictability in the public
sector; (ii) greater availability of quality fiscal and financial data; (iii) enhanced transparency of
government functions; and (iv) more developed human resources in the public service.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The project consisted of four components as follows:

Component 1: Strengthening Accountability Institutions (US$7.2 million)
This component supported the following activities:

Capacity Building for Staff and Members:
    Development of a consolidated 5-year staffing and professional development strategy to
       assist in closing gaps in the committee system, with a focus on the PAC and Budget &
       Finance Committee (BFC) Attachments of committee and research staff from Southern
       African Development Community (SADC) and other regions to the Public Accounts



                                                  3
       Committee (PAC) and BC to encourage staff to learn from the experiences of others, as
       well as facilitate the strengthening of regional cooperation.
       Training of staff in basic skills areas such as computer literacy, financial management,
       project management, monitoring and evaluation, and auditing.
       Training of Members of the BC and PAC (through annual issues seminars) in areas
       related to budgeting, public financial management, economic policy, accounting, and the
       role of Committees,
       Support for Members of the PAC to attend the Association of Public Accounts
       Committees (APAC) annual training sessions.

Institutional Strengthening:
     Design and installation of a database of expert resources from civil society for the
         research section for use in developing witness lists and briefings for committees.
     Capacity building support for the establishment of a Committee Department including a
         needs assessment and provision of equipment.
     Support for dissemination of committee findings and reports, as well as civic
         consultation.

Component 2: Improving Financial Management (US$ 14.3 million)
IFMIS. A major component of the project was to build Government's capacity to manage the
ongoing development of IFMIS and the associated change management process, as well as full
implementation of the system.

Capacity Building:
    The credit will support capacity building to include the procurement of consultancies,
    hardware, equipment, software licenses, and training, relevant to further development of
       the software application and successful completion of system testing.
    Strengthening of the project management team will take place through local and
       international training and secondments from neighboring countries.
    The program will implement an enhanced program for training of trainers and end users.

Implementation:
    International consultancies and advisors will be provided to assist in implementation,
       trouble shooting, and continued refinements.
    In-house training will continue, although local training institutions may also be required
       for some skill levels.
    A comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system will be established, with
       participation from the Office of the Accountant General, Treasury, Department of Human
       Resources Management and Development (DHRMD), Office of the President and
       Cabinet (OPC), and operating ministries.
    A special task force will be established to oversee the implementation of IFMIS to
       decentralized posts and to assess needs and challenges regarding decentralization/de-
       concentration and IFMIS.
    The credit will finance the user license fees for CODA Financials, as well as finance the
       primary implementation and maintenance contracts.

Government Wide Area Network (GWAN). The subcomponent supported the following
activities:
Expansion of the Network: Two aspects of expansion would be addressed under the credit. The
first was to expand the Capital Hill network to City Center where additional government offices


                                              4
were located. This would be a fiber optic expansion. Outside Lilongwe, particularly in regional
administrative centers, more cost effective wireless LAN equipment consisting of transceivers
connected via Ethernet cables to servers or other segment of the network would be utilized.
Likewise, radio, microwave and laser technologies would be used to complement the wireless
networks in the regions.

Power Supply: The credit would support a series of Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) units
and generators to provide electrical power to computer and other devices during power shortage
or irregularities.

System Protection: The credit would support the purchase and installation of virus detection
software. The network administrators would implement appropriate file and directory rights for
the end-users and develop guidelines, standards, and delineation of file rights.

Management and Capacity: Through the credit, government would establish a facilities
management unit to oversee utilization, standards and maintenance of the GWAN.

Component 3: Human Development (US$ 3.6 million)
Operation of the Facility: The Training Facility would be managed by DHRMD in close
coordination with the FIMTAP Secretariat, component managers, line ministries and other donor
programs supporting training and capacity building.

Training Institutions: All training institutions in Malawi would be invited to submit an expression
of interest to participate in the Facility. From this pool an evaluation would be undertaken to "pre-
qualify" training institutions eligible to provide training services under the Facility. The pre-
qualified group would form a domestic training consortium to be used by the project. The
consortium would be reviewed every three years to ensure that the pre-qualified institutions
maintained relevant training programs and were competitive in the training market. This use of a
domestic consortium was also supposed to encourage capacity development within these
institutions and strengthen them.

Component 4: FIMTAP Secretariat (US$ 2.4 million)
The project would be managed by a project management unit, otherwise referred to as the
FIMTAP Secretariat. The FIMTAP Secretariat, supported by Technical, Steering and Financial
Management Committees would undertake overall implementation of the FIMTAP project. The
primary responsibilities of the FIMTAP Secretariat would focus on coordination, financial
management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, and reporting. The Secretariat functioned
as a hybrid project implementation unit. It would be housed in the Office of President and
Cabinet (OPC) and it reported to the head of that ministry on a day-to-day basis. All
administrative matters related to Secretariat staff were handled by OPC.

1.6 Revised Components
Consequent to the project restructuring in July 2006, the following changes were made to the
project components:

The subcomponents dropped from the project2 were: (i) capacity building for the Parliamentary
Accounts Committee, Parliamentary Budget Committee and their officials; (ii) external audit


2
 The dropped parliamentary and NAO sub-components were subsequently funded under the Millennium
Challenge Corporation's (MCC) Malawi Threshold Plan being implemented by USAID, with additional


                                                 5
capacity and institutional building for the National Audit Office (NAO); (iii) expenditure and
performance tracking by the National Economic Council (NEC) within the Ministry of Economic
Planning and Development; and (iv) the office of the Chief Economic Adviser to the President3.
The IFMIS subcomponent remained but was limited to the supply of back-up generators.

The new activities added to the project were: (i) rightsizing of senior public service staffing
levels; (ii) rationalization of foreign missions; (iii) implementation of a new Human Resource
Management Information System (HRMIS); (iv) provision of economic policy support to the
Minister of Finance; (v) support for the implementation of procurement reforms under the Office
of the Director of Public Procurement (ODPP); and, (vi) establishment of a Performance
Incentive Facility (PIF) for the project.

             Table 1: Project Components and Subcomponents after Restructuring

      COMPONENT 1: PUBLIC SERVICE MANAGEMENT AND RIGHT-SIZING
      (New)
       Public Service Management
         o Performance contracting (Harmonized with CIDA)
         o Personnel audits (Refocused to integrate with new HRMIS sub-component)
         o Strategic planning (Refocused to integrate with MTEF and budget
               preparation; harmonized with CIDA)
         o Human Resource Management Information System (HRMIS) (New)
         o Economic Policy Support (New)
         o Capacity Building Facility (Converted from a component to a sub-
               component)

           Public Service Right-sizing (New)
           o       Rationalization of senior public servants (New)
           o       Rationalization of foreign missions (New)

      COMPONENT 2: IMPROVING EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
         IFMIS (Reduced in scope and harmonized with USAID)
         Government Wide Area Network (Harmonized with UNDP)
         Internal Audit (Harmonized with Norway and Sweden through NAO
          support)
         Public Procurement Capacity Building (New  harmonized with UNDP,
          USAID)




funding from the Department for International Development (DFID), the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) and the Commonwealth Secretariat. The NEC sub-component was
subsequently funded by the European Union. The IFMIS subcomponent was subsequently funded under the
MCC Threshold Plan, but with some support continuing under the restructured project.


3
  The Chief Economic Adviser to the President was appointed as the Minister of Finance and government did not seek
to fill this position with another appointee. Therefore it was agreed that the position be abolished.




                                                        6
      COMPONENT 3: PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE FACILITY (New)
      This component was added as a supplementary funding mechanism to finance
      activities (subprojects) that promote ownership and stimulate implementation
      performance by sub-components, which had been poor to date. This facility would
      operate by providing small performance incentive grants from US$1,000-5,000 for the
      financing of subprojects following the achievement of quarterly work plan
      performance targets. The assessment of whether these targets have been met will be
      determined by the FIMTAP Secretariat's monitoring and evaluation (M&E) program
      and documented in the Quarterly M&E Report, provided to IDA and the Project
      Technical and Steering Committees, as specified in the DCA.

      COMPONENT 4: PROJECT MANAGEMENT
      This component was aimed at overall management of project activities, including
      Financial Management, Procurement, and M&E.


1.7 Other significant changes
(i) Project Restructuring. After the project became effective in June 2003, the project
implementation and disbursement were slow due to the following factors:

        The project began operations during the campaign for the 2004 General Elections. At that
        time, within the public service, there was little momentum for the reforms included in
        FIMTAP.

        The project experienced significant procurement delays during the first 18 months of its
        operation, mainly because the FIMTAP Secretariat (the Project Implementation Unit) had
        no procurement specialist. This was compounded by the fact that staff in beneficiary
        agencies were not conversant with World Bank procurement procedures. This lack of
        procurement expertise within GOM and the FIMTAP Secretariat was exacerbated by the
        Bank's delay in processing no-objection requests from the FIMTAP Secretariat.

        The time and effort needed to implement most of the components was underestimated in
        the project design. The assumptions made in the design about existing GOM technical and
        absorptive capacity and the success of public service reform (PSR) and public expenditure
        management (PEM) reforms under preceding projects were optimistic.

        The level of ownership of project subcomponents was overestimated at implementation.
        This probably resulted from reform fatigue, low public service morale, a lack of capacity
        to implement the reforms, and a lack of demand for the reforms from the agencies
        implementing them.

        The project implementation was affected because of the shortage of timely counterpart
        funds from the government budget.




                                               7
         The collaboration of donors for funding joint and parallel tasks was cumbersome and time
         consuming4.

In light of the disappointing implementation performance resulting from the above factors, the
GOM and the Bank agreed in November 2004 that the project needed to be restructured.
According to the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President dated June 15, 2006, the
restructuring aimed to: (i) overcome the challenges associated with slow implementation and
disbursement; (ii) bring the project into greater conformity with the public sector reform (PSR)
and public expenditure management (PEM) priorities of the new government elected after project
effectiveness; and (iii) better harmonize activities under the project with those being implemented
by other donors. To achieve these goals FIMTAP's development objective (DO) was simplified
and refocused.5

The project restructuring came into effect only in July 2006, about 18 months after initiating the
restructuring process in November 2004. This long delay was due to a number of reasons,
including the fact that to that date the project had a succession of five TTLs and that the TTL at
the time of this decision had only been recently recruited to the Bank and had limited operational
experience. In addition to these issues and the principal factors listed below, within the
government, at the level of subcomponent managers (Directors within MDAs) and component
managers (i.e. Principal Secretaries of MDAs), their experience of the project to date had been
principally negative and there seemed to be considerable doubt on their part that restructuring the
project would improve it or focus it on issues that were important to them. This skepticism, even
after the restructure, was so evident, that in order to provide greater direct support to project
implementation, and to related public sector governance issues, the TTL was transferred from
Zambia to Malawi in April 2006.

Among then principal reasons for the delay were:

(i) There was a delay on the part of the Bank to approve restructuring due to lack of clarity on
Bank procedures and policies. The then TTL was under the impression that a new PAD, to be
developed by government, was required for restructuring, and it took time to prepare it. However,
with the change of TTL in April 2005, from June 2005 work on the new PAD ceased, as it was
not required, and consultations on the scope and nature of the restructure began with government.




4
  The project envisaged broad collaboration among donor partners such as CIDA, Norway, UNDP, USAID
and MCC. In view of this many tasks and activities were constantly harmonized.

5
  Through a first order restructuring of the Project that required Board approval of the new PDO, project
components and indicators.



                                                     8
(ii) The Country Director in late 2005 requested the Internal Audit Department (IAD) to conduct
an audit for FIMTAP as some financial irregularities, associated with the existing IFMIS
component, were suspected. This audit was not undertaken, but IAD's preliminary investigations
concluded in April 2006 by finding no fiscal irregularities, but several instances of financial
management lapses in relation to the IFMIS and recommended remedial actions;

(iii ) Government proposing additional subcomponents late in the planned restructure period; e.g.
the HRMIS, foreign missions and retrenchment subcomponents. The Government had initially
requested additional financing for the addition of new components, but due to the slow pace of
disbursement it was decided that the new components would be considered through project
restructuring;

The second restructuring 6 was done in February 2009 to take account of changes in project
operations and/or government priorities, since the first restructuring. The changes included in the
second restructuring aimed to ensure that the Credit proceeds were targeted to the government
priorities and were fully disbursed by the time of project closure on September 1, 2009. In
particular, the second restructuring involved the following modifications to the DCA:

          Dropping the Rationalization of Senior Public Servants Subcomponent
          Increasing the number of civil servants to be repatriated from foreign missions from
          approximately 23 to 32
          Increasing the performance indicator for the Capacity Building Facility from a training
          target of 100 civil servants to 1000
          Increasing the maximum award for Sub-projects under the Performance Incentive Facility
          (PIF) from $5,000 to $10,000
          Reallocation of Credit proceeds

(ii) Revised Financing Percentages and Cost Sharing: The ability of GOM to provide counterpart
funding as required under the original Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was problematic
since the project became effective. In response to a request from the government, the project was
approved for retrofitting in accordance with the Malawi Country Financing Parameters.
Consequently, all expenditure categories were agreed to be financed at 100 percent.

(iii) Project Schedule: As part of the restructuring, the closing date of the project was extended
for 18 months from March 1, 2008 to September 1, 2009.

(iv) Funding allocations: During implementation, the Credit Agreement was revised twice to
reallocate funds among expenditure categories. The reallocations are shown in the Table 2 below.




6
    This was a second order restructuring that was processed at the regional level.



                                                9
                                  Table 2: Reallocation of Funds

 Category         Description           Original         First Reallocation    Second Reallocation
                                       Allocation            July 2006           February 2009
                                          US$                   US$                   US$
     1       Goods                         4.0                   5.47                 7.16
     2       Consultant's services,       14.1                  13.18                 13.37
             audits and training
     3       Operating costs               2.6                  5.86                   6.30
     4       Refunding PPF                 0.6                  0.31                  0.33
     5       Unallocated                   2.4                  0.89                     -
     6       Subprojects                                        0.50                   0.49
     7       Severance Payments            -                    0.31                     -
                           TOTAL          23.7                 26.52                  27.65

The first reallocation of funds was done as part of the project restructuring in July 2006. Funds
were reallocated among categories as shown in Table 2. In addition, two expenditure categories,
one for Sub Projects, and the other for Severance Payments were added.

The second reallocation, done as part of a minor restructure in February 2009, was used for
allocating the Credit proceeds from the Unallocated Category to various expenditure categories
to ensure that all the funds were utilized by the closing date of the project. Additionally, there was
a change in the categories of funding allocations; consultant services were slightly reduced by
three percent while goods (by 22 percent) and operating costs (by 14 percent) would increase.
The decrease in consulting services arose from other donors (UNDP and USAID) as part of their
complementary projects, having paid for some consultancies originally budget for from the Credit.
The increase in goods and operating costs was principally driven by Malawi's high rates of
inflation, compounded by other factors such as the impact of fuel price rises.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project Background: The project supported the government's efforts to deepen public
expenditure management reforms, improve governance by building Malawi's capability to carry
out budget implementation, enhance the transparency of public institutions, and build capacity for
more effective service delivery. The main component of the project, the roll-out of the IFMIS,
was a continuation of work begun under the Bank's Second Institutional Development Project
(IDP2), which had financed five years of IFMIS development, using CODA Financials  the
latest version of which, with additional modules, had been reportedly installed immediately prior
to FIMTAP beginning. The task of FIMTAP was to take the IFMIS beyond piloting and roll it
out to central government line ministries, for which the building of a GWAN was to be
undertaken.

Project Design: Even though one of the lessons mentioned in the PAD was that "Overly
complex design and ambitious implementation targets are unrealistic for low capacity
beneficiary agencies", in effect the FIMPTAP design also turned out to be complex and over
ambitious, with too many activities incorporated under four components. Considering the
country's low absorptive capacity, many of its activities should have been avoided and the
project design made more simple and realistic.



                                                 10
Quality at Entry: As mentioned in Section 5.1, the overall quality at entry was unsatisfactory. For
example, at effectiveness, some of the components were not ready for implementation. In
particular, the existing IFMIS was not assessed as being the most appropriate solution to
Malawi's financial management needs  it was apparent that there should have been an overall
systems architecture study. There was also inadequate capacity assessment of the IFMIS
implementing institution.

Soundness of Background Analysis: Reasonable technical diagnostic work appears to have been
done prior to the design of the project for most of the areas. Apart from the fact that it was
preceded by several other projects, like IDP2, supporting PFM, the project had benefited from
completed diagnostic work in the form of Public Expenditure Reviews (PERs), a Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), a Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR)
and a Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) review.

Lessons of Earlier Operations Taken into Account: The following lessons from the public sector
reform experience in developed and developing countries were identified and incorporated in the
project design, as well as the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the IDP2 project:

        Sequencing of institutional reforms improves credibility of the budget process: Service
        delivery fails when budget implementation, expenditure management and accountability
        are poor.

        Implementation targets should be realistic: Overly complex design and ambitious
        implementation targets are unrealistic for low capacity beneficiary agencies. This leads to
        low disbursements during the early stages of project implementation as well as delays in
        resolving procurement-related issues.

        Government ownership and commitment is key to institutional reform: Complex public
        sector and institutional reforms place a premium on ownership and commitment at the
        highest levels.

        Public sector training can be provided efficiently when conducted in an agency-wide,
        demand-driven environment.

Risk Assessment: The overall risk of the project was rated as Substantial in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD). The ICR team agrees with this assessment. The PAD had identified several
potential risks and mitigation measures as deemed appropriate at that time were spelt out. During
implementation, many of these identified risks had materialized.

2.2 Implementation
The project had to face several challenges during the implementation period, including frequent
turnover of task team leaders (TTLs); deteriorating relationship between the Bank and the
government; absence of an M&E specialist for a lengthy period of time; and procurement delays.

Factors affecting implementation: In addition to the factors which had affected implementation
mentioned in Section 1.7, the following factors also affected project implementation:




                                                11
Factors outside government control or implementation agency

(i) High turnover of TTLs. During the first three years of the project, the Bank's TTL had
changed five times. This frequent change in task leadership led to lack of continuity, lack of
ownership, and different approaches to the supervision of implementation. In addition, these
frequent changes sent a signal to the client that the Bank was not serious about the project, and
magnified borrower concerns about delays in procurement approval.

(ii) Deteriorating relationship between the Bank and the Government. In the first few years of
implementation, there was a major deterioration of confidence on the part of both the GOM and
the Bank in each other's ability to deliver the project. The rapid changes of TTLs and the
disagreement over the selection of CODA Financials vis a vis EPICOR were the two factors
which contributed to this situation.

Factors subject to government control or implementation agency

(i) Implementation of the Internal Auditing component was slow principally because of the
difficulty in recruiting audit staff, low levels of auditing skills in many staff and resource
constraints that limited travel and the ability to undertake audits outside the four main urban
centers.

(ii) Due to the absence of an M&E Specialist in the FIMTAP Secretariat team because of delays
in the public service recruitment process, very little M&E activity took place until February, 2007.

(iii) Delay in procurement of goods and consultancies, plus training for all the subcomponents
both existing and new, negatively affected implementation because procurement of such activities
was delayed until the Procurement Plan was approved following the project restructuring.

(iv) GWAN implementation was affected by the:
      Shortage of staff to maintain the system
      Some of the staff that were trained left
      Lack of operational standards for network integrity and performance
      Lack of an approved National Information Communication Technology (ICT) Strategy
      The delayed purchase of network utility software for GOM's general use due to wrong
       application of procurement methods
      Wrong classification of GWAN roll out by the Bank at the design stage. It was
       categorized as consultancy while the correct category as advised later by the Bank's
       procurement specialist, was a Goods category. This delayed implementation a lot since
       tender documents were prepared under the wrong category (consultancy) and rejected by
       the Bank more than once.

(v) Procurement. The absence of the Procurement Specialist in the FIMTAP Secretariat until
2007 had continued to be a source of major concern for both the Bank and government.

The Mid-term Review (MTR). The MTR was originally scheduled for June 2005, but as the
project was under the restructuring process, it was rescheduled to November 2007. Because of the
inordinate delay in restructuring, it was further delayed until March-April 2008, so as to allow the
new components introduced in the restructuring, to have the benefit of a substantial
implementation period prior to the MTR.




                                                12
The MTR concluded that:

        The overall project performance was satisfactory, and of the 14 subcomponents
        and single activity components, one subcomponent was unsatisfactory, two sub-
        components were moderately satisfactory, and one was highly satisfactory.
        Given the above performance, the project restructuring and redesign implemented
        in 2006 seemed to have effectively put the project back on track.
        Disbursement performance had increased significantly and reached 66.3% of
        credit proceeds at March 31, 2008. This was only slightly below the original
        project disbursement predictions.
        Savings were realized from two subcomponents, namely: (i) the right-sizing of
        senior civil servants which government has requested be dropped; and (ii) the
        right-sizing of foreign missions. The government had proposed re-allocating
        these savings principally for additional capacity building.
        There were no significant financial management issues, and procurement
        performance was also satisfactory, although some challenges remained in having
        some equipment purchases processed before project completion date.

The ICR agrees with the technical conclusions of the MTR.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design: The PAD had envisioned that the complex nature of expenditure accountability
and institutional reform would require particularly strong monitoring and evaluation. However,
the performance indicators chosen in the PAD were vaguely defined most of them did not have
specific targets, and they were also complex and difficult to achieve. At restructuring, 14
indicators (one per subcomponent) which were realistic and feasible to achieve, were developed.
The new design also came up with annual work plans (AWPs) which were incorporated into
quarterly reports.

M&E implementation: At the time of restructuring, a comprehensive M&E system for
monitoring the progress of the project was put in place. An Annual M&E plan was produced and
provided to the Bank for review and approval. Quarterly M&E reports were produced, detailing
component and subcomponent performance against agreed AWPs and their quarterly work plan
components for each subcomponent, which the M&E Specialist monitored. The M&E Specialist
collaborated with each subcomponent manager in assessing the degree to which they had
achieved their quarterly work plans. These plans were revised at the end of each quarter to reflect
actual performance and predicted performance for the following quarter within the context of the
AWPs. Where a disconnect existed between the agreed quarterly work plan and actual
subcomponent performance, the M&E Specialist and the Project Manager met with the relevant
subcomponent manager to agree on mitigation measures and how to handle the performance
deficit.

M&E utilization: During implementation it was evident that the M&E system functioned well.
Appropriate data collected from quarterly M&E reports from subcomponents was evaluated and
used for decision-making on certain activities. For example, after restructuring, as more money
was needed for capacity building and training activities, funds were reallocated from the IFMIS
component which had surplus funds, to finance these activities. However, the main
supplementary funding that was performance based came from the performance Incentive Fund


                                                13
(PIF), which provided conditional cash grants to successfully performing subcomponents based
on quarterly performance as measured against quarterly work plans. These payments were
initially a maximum of $5,000, but were eventually increased to $10,000 because of the impact of
inflation and the price of goods and service to be purchased by the grants; e.g. additional training,
equipment, furniture, maintenance and repairs.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard issues. N/A

Fiduciary issues: The project complied with fiduciary covenants during implementation. Internal
control arrangements were in place, and adequate financial management system and records were
maintained.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase: Adequate transition arrangements for continuing
the future operation have been put in place by the government as explained below:

    Performance Contracting: Desk Officers (DHRM&D) and Heads of Human Resource
Management Units in line ministries are adequately trained so that they are able to manage and
administer the Performance Management System properly.

However, annual performance reviews and performance management system orientations will
need to be budgeted. There is a need to continuously orient civil servants so that employees reach
an acceptable level of competence in implementing the performance management system. There
is also a need to roll out the performance management system to deconcentrated MDAs in regions
as well as to District Assemblies.

     Strategic Planning: There is need for incorporating annual reviews of MDA Strategic
Plans into the government planning calendar. It is a requirement that MDAs' annual budgets
include an element of strategic planning to cover the annual reviews of strategic plans. A system
of reviewing MDAs' strategic plans, through their submission early in the budget cycle to the
Principal Secretary (Administration) in OPC, to ensure they reflect the emerging policy changes
in the MGDS, has been put in place and must be maintained and credibly linked to MDAs'
budget submissions to MEDP.

      Capacity Building Facility: Skills audit survey and vacancy analysis activities have been
included in departments' annual budgets so that training plans are developed based on critical
skills and that key positions are filled. A Human Resource Planning (HRP) proposal has been
developed to solicit funds for training of civil servants in the governance areas. Subcomponent
managers have been trained in project management to enable them to manage programs in their
respective MDAs and prepare them for managing future projects. The capacity of the local Staff
Development Institute has been built to continue with the training programs after the project. The
government has also put in place mechanisms to enforce bonds issued to trained staff as one way
of retaining them, if they are sent for training overseas or regionally. Under FIMTAP, civil
servants were only allowed to attend one year postgraduate courses outside Malawi and their
bonds were enforced to the degree that all such staff returned to Malawi at the completion of their
training.

     Rationalization of Foreign Missions: There is a need to introduce a career diplomatic
service in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Trade attaches, which for the first time are posted to all


                                                 14
foreign missions as a consequence of the Right Sizing of Foreign Mission subcomponent, will
need specialized training in trade and investment functions.

     Internal Audit: The government is planning for exchange programs for internal auditors
to gain on-the-job experience. Subsequent training programs will include specially designed
certifications offered by the Institute of Internal Auditors. However, there is a need to develop a
quality control and assurance system that will ensure that the internal audit function performs its
work in accordance with its charter. There is also a need to improve conditions of service in
order to retain qualified staff, although conditions had improved under FIMTAP support,
especially access to non-fiscal audit training (performance, forensic and computer based audit)
and the supply of equipment and work environment enhancements

     Personnel Audit: The government will continue funding personnel audit exercises
through annual budgets. The Personnel Audit Unit in DHRMD will continue conducting
personnel audit exercises in MDAs. A general Personnel Audit for the whole civil service is
expected to be conducted every five years.

     HRMIS: The government will continue funding the HRMIS. Appropriate training will
continue to be provided to users, technical personnel and managers. There is, however, a need to
strengthen the HRMIS Unit in DHRMD to manage and support the human resource management
information system and to provide the depth of expertise necessary to assist HRMIS users in the
ministries to which the HRMIS is devolved.

    IFMIS: The government will continue to provide funds for licenses, upgrades, additional
modules if required, training, fuel and maintenance services.

     Public Procurement Capacity Building: ODPP's monitoring and enforcement section will
continue monitoring the implementation of the PPA in the MDAs. Once the regulations on asset
management and disposal are promulgated by the Minister, the ODPP's Monitoring and
Enforcement Section will start monitoring compliance levels in the Procuring Entities (PEs.)
There is, however, a need to allocate more resources to both the ODPP and the newly established
Procurement and Supply Common Service, created under the procurement reforms supported by
FIMTAP, to strengthen the existing capacity building plans. However, in the area of procurement
capacity development, ODPP has access to training for the Chartered Institute of Procurement
and Supply (through the Staff Development Institute, Malawi College of Accounting and the
Malawi Institute of Procurement and Supply), to the Bachelor of Procurement and Logistics
established under FIMTAP at the Malawi Polytechnic and the Masters of Supply Chain
Management offered jointly by the Malawi Institute of Management and the University of Bolton
in Lilongwe.

List of performance indicators: The same set of 14 M&E indicators that were developed at
restructuring will be used as part of the government's regular operations. There is, however, a need
to do an annual review of these indicators to sustain their relevance and make them impact oriented

Follow-on project: It is desirable to have follow-on projects on public financial management and
public sector reform to cover those areas which were not addressed under the FIMTAP or which
were designed to assume a follow-up program and therefore were not complete; e.g. procurement,
audit and accounting capacity building; judicial/legal analysis and capacity building; results based
management and service delivery, budget and MOF institutional strengthening. Likewise, for




                                                15
rolling out IFMIS to districts and local assemblies, it will be necessary to have a follow-on project,
although this is being partially addressed by the MASAF 3 project.

Future Impact Evaluation: It is important to conduct an impact evaluation by the end of 2010, so
as to identify those areas which will need further donor support. The Bank will need to design the
nature and scope of evaluation in consultation with the donors and the government.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The revised project objective is clear, relevant, and important to Malawi. It is consistent with the
Bank's current CAS and the MPRSP. The project has been designed to support two of the
MPRSP pillars: human capital development and promoting good governance. By strengthening
human and institutional capacity in the public service, frontline service delivery will improve,
thereby indirectly addressing the other pillars of the MPRSP.

It is also consistent with the: (i) Malawi Growth and Development Strategy (MGDS), particularly,
Strategy Area 5  Improving Governance  and with the public expenditure management, public
sector capacity building, transparency and accountability strategies included in that area; and (ii)
Bank's Africa Action Plan, particularly the reform of human resource management, pay and
incentive systems.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Moderately Satisfactory: The project was successful in achieving its revised objective. However,
as the original project objective was formally revised at the time of restructuring in July 2006, the
project outcome has been assessed against both the original and revised project objectives. To
assist in arriving at an overall outcome rating, separate outcome ratings (against original and
revised project objectives) have been weighted in proportion to the share of actual credit
disbursements made in the periods before and after approval of the revision. Based on the two
ratings as shown in Annex 10, the overall achievement of the project is rated as Moderately
Satisfactory.

I. Project outcome before restructuring

The project implemented a number of activities under its respective subcomponents as detailed
below.

A. STRENGTHENING ACCOUNTABILITY INSTITUTIONS

(i) Internal Audit: The Central Internal Audit Unit (CIAU) which is now a department was
established to oversee the activities of all internal auditors in ministries and departments. The
manuals, terms of reference and operating guidelines were also developed. The Internal Audit
Department has strengthened stakeholder confidence in public institutions by improving
accountability in the use of public resources and reducing potential risks for corruption, fraud and
financial mismanagement.

An Internal Audit Charter was produced and submitted to the Ministry of Finance. An Internal
Audit Manual was developed and approved. Staffing levels slightly improved and training was


                                                 16
provided to existing staff. An Internal Audit Common Service was established followed by
internal audit units in MDAs.

(ii) Parliamentary Institutional Strengthening: Almost no activity was undertaken in this
subcomponent. By the time of restructuring no capacity development planning had been done,
one workshop had been held for junior parliamentary staff and 2 senior staff had attended general
management courses outside Malawi. No work had been done on building the capacity of key
parliamentary oversight committees and their staff and no resources and equipment provided to
support their functions.

(iii) National Audit Office (NAO) Capacity Building: Although a training plan had been
developed for the NAO, no training had been undertaken through FIMTAP. NAO was also in
receipt of joint support from NORAD and SIDA (through the Norwegian Embassy) and did not
draw upon FIMTAP resources to complement these other activities.

(iv) Performance Contracting Scheme: Annual performance reviews were conducted for officers
engaged on contract (S4/P4 and above).

(v) Strategic Planning: Strategic Plans for six ministries/departments were developed. A
strategic planning process handbook and strategic planning framework for the civil service were
also developed.

(vi) Personnel Audit: One personnel audit exercise was carried out in 2003.

(vii) Expenditure Tracking: One Public Expenditure Tracking Survey (PETS) was conducted in
the pilot districts of Mzimba, Mchinji, Zomba and Chikwawa. The survey was intended to
ascertain the flow and utilization of funds to the intended beneficiaries in the rural communities,
as reflected in the annual budgets in an attempt to address poverty.

Three officers were sent for Masters Degree program to build capacity in the collection and
analysis of data. However, training of key stakeholders on monitoring and evaluation at district
assemblies was not done, since the training was already being provided by UNDP. The
monitoring and evaluation staff of EP&D were trained on software namely "Stata" which
equipped them with skills for poverty analysis.

B. IMPROVING FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS

(i) IFMIS: The system was launched in five pilot sites namely; Agriculture, Health, Finance,
Education and Accountant General's Department. Training was conducted to 5 officers in Project
Management, IT and Coda Financials. Office equipment such as computers and printers were
procured and distributed to the five pilot sites. The system was not rolled out to the rest of
government ministries/departments as planned because of the change of software from CODA
Financials to EPICOR.

(ii)
   GWAN: Physical network was expanded and improved. Trend Antivirus software was
upgraded to version 5. Specifications for GWAN roll out to City Centre Lilongwe, were
developed. Three generators for Capital Hill were procured but not installed during the period.
This was due to incomplete requirements for the procurement and installation of the generators.




                                                17
33 officers were sent on various long-term training programs as follows: five at Masters Degree
level, four at Bachelors degree level and 24 at diploma level. In addition, five officers were
trained in various short term industry standard ICT courses during this period. 23 ministerial and
departmental ICT strategies were developed.

C. ENHANCING HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT

Capacity Building
         Training needs assessment and capacity assessment of training institutions was
            conducted.
         Demand driven public sector training delivered and local training institutions
            strengthened.

A total of 1,034 civil servants were trained and capacity assessment for local training institutions
was carried out.

Achievement of the original objective was Moderately Unsatisfactory. The initial phase of the
project was rated as such for several reasons, which are discussed elsewhere in this report in
terms of project quality at entry and implementation. However, the principal reasons were:

    (i) By April 30, 2006 (three years after effectiveness), only 29 percent of the credit had
        disbursed, and four of the sub-components had made no or very little progress (as shown
        above), while the implementation of all other sub-components was significantly retarded.

    (ii) The level of ownership of project sub-components was very low and there seemed little
         interest by beneficiaries in having the project succeed. Whether this resulted from reform
         fatigue, low public service morale, a lack of capacity to implement the reforms, or a lack
         of demand for the reforms from the agencies implementing them, is difficult to discern;
         but all factors probably contributed. Over the first years of the project no enthusiasm for
         owning the sub-components was noticeable and in the IFMIS component in particular,
         considerable objections to IDA's advice arose from the agency implementing it, thus
         slowing implementation even further.


II. Project outcome after restructuring

The following achievements demonstrate the direct correlation between the project's outputs and
their resulting outcomes.

A. Public Service Management and Right-Sizing
The project contributed in strengthening institutional framework and capacity of human resource
management as reflected in improvements in identifying ghost workers; transparency and
predictability of wage bills. Further, it was observed that bulk of personnel who received training
under the project continues to work under HR development functions.

(i) Performance Contracting.
      A workable Performance Management System has been developed and implemented. It is
         now easier for the government to assess the performance of civil servants. When the
         Performance Contracting Scheme was introduced, a total of 302 officers from Grade
         S4/P4 and above were engaged on contract terms. By July 2009, the number of officers



                                                18
        who were on contract had significantly been reduced to 196, due to the re-integration into
        permanent and pensionable terms. Almost all officers from Grade S4/P4 and above have
        been oriented on the management and operations of the performance contracting scheme.

        The Performance Management Scheme was rolled out to all cadres in the civil service in
        July 2008. Currently, performance contracting activities have had a positive impact in
        that many employees have developed their performance agreements (work plans).

        Annual performance reviews are being carried out for all officers under contract. Annual
        performance agreements are being prepared and are used as a basis for performance
        assessment. The performance agreements provide operational directions to civil servants
        which would lead them to improve their performance.

        The design was changed in 2008 when the open performance appraisal system was rolled
        out to all cadres in the civil service. As such annual performance reviews are now being
        conducted for all officers in the civil service.

        Dispute resolution guidelines have been developed to assist employees, supervisors and
        managers in the civil service on how to handle and manage disputes arising from the
        assessment of employee performance.

(ii) Personnel Audit.
      Regular personnel audits were done over the course of the project to ensure the integrity
         of the payroll system. The last audit was completed in June 2008 and the HRMIS
         database has been reconciled and updated. The last update identified approximately 708
         positions which were deleted from the general Public Service establishment because the
         position, had no occupant (ghost).

(iii) Strategic Planning.
       All ministries are using their strategic plans as part of budget planning and reviewing
          them annually. Each annual strategic plan is also reviewed by OPC to ensure it is
          compliant with the Malawi Growth and Development Strategy (MGDS) on which the
          budget is based. It is then used in consultations with the Ministry of Economic Planning
          in relation to budget discussions and preliminary estimates.

        Planning Officers in MDAs, who have the responsibility for sectoral budget development,
        have been trained in developing budget estimates and core budget teams from MDAs
        were trained in aligning strategic plans with budget development process in producing
        budget estimates using predetermined templates developed by the Ministry of Finance.

        DHRMD is also planning to roll-out the strategic planning capacity building program to
        District Assemblies.

(iv) HRMIS
      The Schedule of Established Offices (Establishment Control) has been fully implemented
       in HRMIS. This is in conformity with the budgeted public service establishments and is
       the basis for the wage bill. The establishment control is centrally managed and
       adjustments to the establishment are only done by authorized officers within DHRMD.




                                               19
        MDAs have access to their respective establishments in "read only" mode. The payroll
        module has been fully implemented and is functionally dependent on the establishment
        control and employee modules. Security controls have been implemented in HRMIS with
        full audit trails for all transactions. Access rights to the system are assigned to various
        levels of authorized users.

        A review of the HRMIS which was carried out in 2008 showed that significant progress
        had been made in the implementation of the system and verified that the system was
        secure and met international accounting standards for payroll systems.

        Government has realized the following benefits by putting in place establishment and
        payroll controls: wage bill fluctuations have been contained, human resource records
        management has improved, salary related acts of fraud have been minimized, and
        appointments or recruitments are no longer done without authorized establishment, a
        common practice in the past several MDAs.


Human Resource Records:
The establishment control database has been updated and reconciled with information from the
personnel audit exercise of 2008. Employee and payroll databases have also been updated with
information from the personnel audit exercise. During the exercise, 708 ghost workers were
identified and removed from the payroll.

 Public Service Remuneration Board Bill:
The Public Service Remuneration Board Bill has been drafted and is expected to be tabled soon.
The Bill is intended to empower the Board to oversee remuneration in the public service in order
to adhere to the principle of equal compensation for equal work by rationalizing compensation
structures and improving wage bill management. FIMTAP has provided technical assistance,
through a specialist payroll consultant, to assist in the development of the Public Service
Remuneration Board, the rationalization of all public sector salaries, including those of parastatals
bodies, and the preparation of the enabling legislation. This technical assistance followed
FIMTAP's funding of the Medium Term Pay Policy in 2006, which was substantially adopted by
GOM.

(v) Capacity Building Facility (CBF):
 The sub-component has trained 1,288 civil servants in both long-term and short-term training
programs that support accountability and transparency in the following areas: accounting, public
finance, auditing, project management, governance, constitutional and administrative law, records
management, procurement, local government financial management, leadership skills and various
induction programs. The training programs have equipped public officers with necessary skills
and knowledge to effectively carry out their day to day duties. The sub-component has also
overseen training in other subcomponents and also coordinated the training of 24 training
coordinators.

(vi) Economic Policy Support:
 Economic Policy Support was provided through provision of an expert consultant to advise
the Minister of Finance and to provide capacity development to the Department of Economic
Policy within the MOF. This consultant has now been appointed Governor of the Reserve Bank
of Malawi. There have been improvements in areas such as development of a macroeconomic
database; development of a macroeconomic model in collaboration with the Ministry of



                                                 20
Economic Planning and Development (MEP&D) and monitoring of all macroeconomic capacity
building programs. The sub component has been able to produce several policy documents such
as the Government Finance Statistics Report (GFS, starting in 2006); quarterly and annually
disbursement projections and monthly actual disbursement data; economic and fiscal statements
(starting in 2007); and Business Interviews reports on selected macroeconomoic topics related to
the public investment program. A program of placing economic analysis staff in key government-
donor working groups and inter-ministerial committees to further their exposure to
macroeconomic and sectoral policy issues have also been implemented. Additionally, a Public
Financial Management Unit has been established within the MOF to monitor the PFM Action
Plan and to support the activities of the Common Approach to Budgetary Support (CABS) group
and the Group on Financial and Economic Management (GFEM), for which the project TTL was
variously a member, Deputy Chair and Co-chair.

A specific capacity building exercise in programmatic cost analysis was done by the division in
conjunction with the National Roads Authority and National Roads Administration to assess the
disconnect between budgeted and actual road costs. This exercise resulted in a report
recommending more accurate road construction costing and cost control mechanisms. Now that
the Department has this capacity, similar analytic exercises are expected to become a regular part
of the Department's work.

(vii) Rationalization of Foreign Mission:
      Four missions namely Ottawa, Nairobi, Tripoli and Paris missions were closed and 15
serving officers initially recalled. The closure of the missions was meant to enable the GOM to
achieve a lean and economically oriented diplomatic service, rather than one focused on donors.
However, eventually government decided to recall 37 staff from foreign missions, in association
with a review of the staffing requirements of all missions especially in terms of the skills required
in diplomatic, trade and commerce functions.

 25 staff, mainly from the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Private Sector Development, were
trained in basic trade and investment diplomacy. 14 of these staff were posted to nine of the 13
foreign missions, but due to a shortage of funds, government will undertake remaining postings in
the next financial year. Additionally, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International
Cooperation (MOFAIC) is planning to have 20 staff designated for trade and commercial
consular duties to have more advanced training through the World Trade Organization (WTO)
Training Institute or through the Trade Policy Training Centre in Africa (TRAPCA) in Arusha,
Tanzania.


B. Improving Expenditure Management
(i) Procurement Capacity Building Program:
      A website for public procurement was developed in 2006 with financial assistance from the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). MDAs that have internet connectivity can
now easily upload and access information from the ODPP website. This has improved the flow of
information between ODPP and the procuring entities thereby assisting them to conduct
procurement in accordance with the law. It has also increased transparency of all government
procurement, leading to the Media Institute of Southern Africa naming ODPP the most
transparent government body in Malawi in terms of access to information in 2009.7


7
    See: http://www.odpp.gov.mw/Documents/ODPP Transparent.pdf




                                                     21
 Regulations on asset management and disposal of public assets have been developed and
forwarded to the Ministry of Justice for promulgation by the Minister.

 ODPP has trained a total of 455 officers in public procurement principles and procedures
against a planned target of 360. These officers were drawn from the various MDAs. Most of these
officers serve in the Specialized Procurement Units (SPUs) or the Internal Procurement
Committees (IPCs) of the said institutions. This has greatly improved the manner in which public
procurement is conducted thereby assisting government realize value for money from
procurement proceedings.

 The ODPP facilitated a twinning arrangement between the University of Bolton in the United
Kingdom and the Malawi Institute of Management (MIM) to locally offer a masters degree in
Supply Chain Management. The project sponsored 20 government officers on this program. The
program has been incorporated in the institutions' curriculum and is being offered on a
commercial basis.

MIM and the Staff Development Institute (SDI) were also contracted to offer the Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply (CIPS) courses at diploma and certificate levels, respectively.
A total of 47 officers have benefited from these programs.

Government currently has officers who are qualified in procurement. Furthermore, the officers
qualified at masters degree level are participating in various capacity building programs at the
Polytechnic (University of Malawi, through the new Bachelor of Procurement and Logistics) and
MIM as lecturers as well as providing local basic training to PEs, IPCs and SPUs, which has
proved cost effective.

 The Malawi Institute of Procurement and Supply (MIPS) was registered in November 2008
and officially launched on 30th January 2009. This is the body that is responsible for the
promotion and regulation of the procurement profession in Malawi. The key positions in the
institute have been filled and the body is now operational.

(ii) IFMIS.
 Three generators were procured and installed in the three Regional Central Payment Offices
(CPOs) namely Blantyre, Zomba and Mzuzu. However the credit agreement did not have a works
category. The AGD used its own local resources to construct a generator house for Mzuzu CPO
which resulted in significant delays in the installation of the generator. The generators ensure the
continuous use of the system by providing standby electricity in the event of a power failure and
are all now installed and operational

(iii) GWAN.
 Nine government buildings at City Centre in Lilongwe have been connected to the existing
GWAN bringing the total to 29. The roll out of GWAN to Mzuzu, Blantyre and some other parts
of Lilongwe is underway. 76 additional government buildings are also expected to be connected
to the existing GWAN. Through this expansion, there is now improved flow of information
within government offices, greater access to email, implementation of Government of Malawi
internet domains (e.g. mof.gov.mw; opc.gov.mw).




                                                22
 The USAID funded complementary activity of providing the optic fiber linkage and
equipment for establishment of an IFMIS Disaster Recovery Site has been completed and is
operational.

(iv) Internal Audit:
 In terms of the internal audit capacity building program, 11 officers have so far qualified as
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants Affiliates (ACCA), but only eight have remained
within the CIAU, while 10 have finished the ACCA Diploma bringing the total of officers with
this advanced qualification to 16. Ten officers have also passed the ABE exams and two qualified
as internal audit technician (UP level 3) during the period to April 2009.

 16 of the 20 ministries have functional Internal Audit Committees (IACs) that meet regularly
and provide reports on internal audit committee activities to the NAO, Central Internal Audit Unit
(CIAU) and the Treasury. These include the ministries of: Education, Health, Agriculture, Local
Government, Transport and Public Works, Natural Resources and Environmental Affairs, Home
Affairs, OPC, Gender, Water, Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs, Lands, Housing and Surveys, Labor
and Social Development, Disability and Justice. These account for over 90 per cent of the Budget.

 Internal Audit Units (IAUs) are not yet established in some ministries, although all MDAs are
covered by an internal audit unit, either within the ministry, from another ministry or by the
CIAU. IAUs have been established in 14 ministries8 which account for over 80 per cent of the
Budget.

C. PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE FACILITY (PIF)
         The Performance Incentive Facility was a mechanism put in place for rewarding all the
subcomponents upon achieving agreed quarterly targets. The PIF was slow to be effective,
although in the design of the project restructure, subcomponent managers had enthusiastically
supported its establishment. For example, by June 2008, the component had only disbursed
US$70,263 representing 15% of its allocation. However, at the same time, Commitments were
$185,774 made up of the paid but not claimed PIF grants of US$73,794 and US$111,980 for
contracts awarded for purchase of goods. This brought total expenditure to US$256,037 which
represented 52% of the PIF allocation. Some of the challenges encountered included late
submission of requests by subcomponents, which delayed the utilization of funds and the
increasing costs of good in particular due to the maintenance of high inflation rates, thus leaving
subcomponent managers with less choice on what to spend even the maximum grant of $5,000.
This issue was addressed in the minor restructure in early 2009, which raised the maximum PIF
grant to US$10,000. This change resulted in a slightly more accelerated usage of the PIF,
resulting at closure in US$341,569.37 being disbursed, representing 68.31% of the amount
allocated for the PIF.

Through this facility, sub-components' activities were accelerated and in return were able to use
the funds to complement their activities. However, the usage of the PIF was somewhat
disappointing given the initial enthusiasm for it, but reflecting in reality a reluctance to claim the
funds even though they were allocated quarterly by the Technical Committee. The most obvious


8
 Ministries of Finance, Education, Health, Agriculture, Local Government, Gender, Water, Foreign Affairs, Home
Affairs, Youth, Lands, Housing and Surveys, Labor and Social Development, Disability and Justice




                                                      23
explanation for this reluctance is the perceived decreasing value of the grants with respect to the
goods and services most sought for their use; specialized regional training, servers and larger
equipment and maintenance.

3.3 Efficiency

The project has brought benefits in economic and financial terms, as demonstrated by the
following:

Economic: A number of economic benefits have been accrued through the project, which will
lead to improved front line service delivery and reduced resource leakages. For example: (i)
internal and external audit will be strengthened, leading to more effective control over the
variability of expenses due to improper or inappropriate purchases, allowances, and loss; (ii) an
integrated financial management system will provide for linkages between the planned budget
and actual cash budget demands, thereby allowing managers to better schedule expenditures to
minimize cash flow problems and improve service delivery; and (iii) increased accountability for
managers and more transparency across government will improve efficiency, reduce corruption
and provide for a more conducive Public Service.

Financial: Overall, improved financial management will ensure better value for money, although
direct financial benefits may not be realized in the short term.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

As explained in Section 3.2, the project has many satisfactory achievements to its credit: (i) it
contributed in strengthening institutional framework and capacity of human resource
management; (ii) a workable Performance Management System has been developed and
implemented; (iii) the Performance Management Scheme was rolled out to all cadres in the civil
service; (iv) annual performance reviews are being carried out for all officers under contract; (v)
aall ministries are using their strategic plans as part of budget planning and reviewing them
annually; (vi) the Schedule of Established Offices (Establishment Control) has been fully
implemented in HRMIS; (viii) the establishment control database has been updated and
reconciled with information from the personnel audit exercise of 2008; (ix) procurement capacity
has been strengthened and made more transparent in government agencies; and (x) nine
government buildings at City Centre in Lilongwe have been connected to the existing GWAN.
All these achievements have facilitated in improving civil service and expenditure management
for better allocation and utilization of public resources.

On the other hand, in light of the weighted ratings as shown in Annex 10, the overall outcome is
rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impacts and Gender Aspects: The project did not have any impact on poverty and
gender aspects, as they were beyond the scope of the project, and hence did not deal with these
aspects.




                                                24
Social Development: By involving communities and parliamentary institutions in budget
monitoring, the project has promoted demand-side pressures on government and public officials
at the national and local levels. The empowerment of communities to hold government
accountable should help forge the accountability relationships necessary to deepen democratic
decentralization and good economic governance in Malawi.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project resulted in a substantial institutional development impact in the following areas:
     Performance contracting
     HRMIS
     GWAN
     Procurement
     Strategic planning

For details, see Section 3.2

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Positive Outcomes:
         The direct involvement of subcomponent coordinators in the redesign/restructure of
FIMTAP has enhanced the design and planning skills of the coordinators, especially with respect
to project activities. This is a good preparation for the civil servants to take up the challenge to
design, plan, understand, and own future projects (with regard to administrative or financial
reforms) which the government may wish to undertake in various sectors.
         In 2003, FIMTAP provided technical assistance to produce the government's Medium
Term Pay Policy. This formed the foundation on rationalization of the pay system, principally
through the integration of most allowances in base pay and removal of duplicate pay structures
for some services. In 2007, the government established the Public Sector Remuneration Board
(PSRB) under the DHRMD, within OPC, and tasked it with further implementation of pay reform
across the entire public sector, including parastatals and stated owned enterprises, as a means to
ensure greater control over all aspects of the public wage bill. The PSRB produced a uniform and
integrated pay structure through consultations with all stakeholders but had some technical
difficulties in applying this to certain categories of employees. FIMTAP provided technical
assistance to finalize the uniform pay system and to advise of the legislation that would establish
the PSRB as an independent statutory authority.
         In 2007-8, FIMTAP through ODPP allowed a number of parastatals and city and
municipal officials to participate in procurement training programs run by ODPP, at no additional
cost to the project. This kick-started the procurement capacity building of these larger
organizations to bring their internal procedures and practices in line with the Public Procurement
Act (2003).

Negative Outcomes:
 When the project was started, it was envisioned that IFMIS will be developed and rolled out
to districts. But midway the government decided not to use CODA Financials but use EPICOR
instead, and to single source it from the same vendor which provided it to the Government of
Tanzania. As the Bank rejected the single sourcing under its procurement guidelines, the amount
originally allocated to IFMIS in the initial phases of the first restructure was reallocated to other
activities. However allowance was made to support IFMIS according to the requirements
specified through consultation with the Accountant General; the supply of three large capacity
generators and provision for training AGD staff through the Capacity Building Facility.


                                                 25
 When the project was restructured and several subcomponents dropped, there were gaps for
some time in capacity building for the parliament, NAO and monitoring and evaluation. However,
within a year of the restructure, these activities were being funded by other donors (MCC
Threshold Plan, the Norwegian Embassy and the European Commission respectively), so the
negative impact was minimized.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Ratings: Significant

The ICR team considers that the risk to development outcome would be significant based
on the following factors:

     Sustainability of the capacity building program: Although GOM is working towards
establishment of a Procurement and Supply Common Service (PSCS), the impact of capacity
building for procurement staff will be greatly reduced if a significant number of trained
procurement staff are transferred or apply for promotional positions outside the PSCS. There is
already anecdotal evidence that procurement officers are being lost from the procurement
function because promotional positions may not be available or for other reasons that are not yet
clear.

 Lack of networking between regional offices and user departments still pose risks of human
intervention which is prone to error and fraud. In order to avoid this situation, the roll out of
IFMIS and GWAN to districts will require aggressive implementation on the part of the
government.

    Training programs: The project carried out training programs to address areas of public
financial management and governance. However, as the training sessions conducted so far are not
adequate compared to the skills gap, there is a need for the government to conduct training
programs in areas such as financial management, IT, records management, HR management, and
internal audit in order to fill this gap.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Unsatisfactory

As mentioned in the earlier sections, the project objective was consistent with the Bank's CAS
and the government priorities and met the critical needs of the financial management sector. The
Bank's contribution to the formulation and design of FIMTAP drew on lessons from its past
involvement with institutional reforms in Malawi, international experience on budgetary reforms
(including IFMIS implementation), as well as the prevailing thinking on strategic sequencing of
MTEF in the context of improved expenditure management, as discussed in the 2001 PER. The
ICR team views these aspects as satisfactory.


                                               26
On the other hand, the project design was fraught with some major drawbacks. For example,
given the low institutional capacity, the project was over ambitious and complex. As mentioned
in Section 2.1, the project components consisted of too many activities, and some of them such as
the IFMIS were not ready for full scale implementation at effectiveness. In addition, the project
was declared effective without a monitoring and evaluation specialist and beefed up procurement
capacity (a procurement advisor in addition to the procurement specialist). . In light of these
major shortcomings, the overall quality at entry is rated Unsatisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

A Country Lending Assessment was carried out in February/March 2005 by a Quality Assurance
Group (QAG) panel of reviewers for the project. The panel rated the overall quality of this project
as Unsatisfactory, Project Design, Implementation and Development Impact were also rated
Unsatisfactory. Strategic Relevance and Approach was rated Satisfactory; and Participation and
Partnerships were rated Marginally Satisfactory. The Bank Inputs and Processes were rated
Unsatisfactory.

The QAG panel noted that:
    "The project was overambitious in its design as it included too many components, several
      of which were sufficiently complex to have justified a project of their own". This result in
      a severe disconnect between project complexity and Malawi's implementation track
      record and absorptive capacity.
    The quality of project supervision was a matter of concern. A Procurement issue
      (recruitment of a procurement specialist) is now affecting project procurement and
      causing implementation delays. The procurement specialist has yet to be recruited. The
      panel does not understand the reasons that led the Bank to declare the credit effective
      when a key effectiveness condition (the recruitment of a procurement specialist) had not
      been met.
    There was a lack of candor in reporting problems and is surprised to note that until
      December 2004 the project IP as well as DO were rated satisfactory. The panel wonders
      whether the Bank can effectively supervise this project given its complexity and poor
      preparation.
    Donor coordination appeared to have been lacking. This appears to have resulted in
      significant duplication of effort among donors.
    There was a high TTL turnover during the short implementation life of this project.

The ICR team concurs with the above findings of QAG. In particular, the high turnover of TTLs
during the first three years of the project created a lack of continuity and ownership, disruption in
implementation, and different approaches to the supervision of project implementation. In
addition, giving the task leadership of a complex project such as FIMTAP to a newly recruited
Bank staff without any operational experience was not a favorable factor for smooth project
implementation.

On the other hand, the Bank performance improved significantly since June 2005 with the
assignment of the sixth TTL, who remained in this position until the completion of the project,
thereby ensuring stability in implementation. Likewise, as the TTL was based in the field for
three years after the project restructuring, the Bank could interact with the counterpart officials on
a day to day basis and this helped in resolving implementation issues promptly and expeditiously.



                                                 27
The Bank's performance improved further after the project restructuring in July 2006. The
Bank team worked closely with GOM to support the restructure implementation. Technical
support was provided to the restructure workshops, revised plans were reviewed and returned to
the project on the basis of a two weeks performance standard and no objections were generally
provided within one week. The TTL provided intensive implementation support to those new
subcomponents and those which appeared to continue to under-perform. The Senior
Procurement Specialist provided targeted support through technical advice to the ODPP
subcomponent. The Senior Financial Management Specialist provided technical assistance to all
the public finance related subcomponents, supplemented by support from the country economist
as required. Regular donor coordination meetings and GOM-donor coordination meetings were
held regarding those subcomponents that were harmonized or coordinated among donors.

The Bank conducted a joint MTR mission in March-April 2008, with counterparts led by the
Office of President and Cabinet and with the involvement of the donors including, United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), the UNDP and the European Commission (EC)
in relation to specific activities harmonized with those donor agencies. Consultations were also
held with the Royal Norwegian Embassy (RNE), which led donor support to the external audit
function which impacts on FIMTAP's support to internal audit and with the Department for
International Development (DFID) of the United Kingdom.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

After the first restructuring, the project performance improved gradually from moderately
satisfactory to satisfactory by the end of the project. In addition, the project was also able to
achieve its objectives after the restructuring. Based on these factors, the overall Bank
Performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government's initial commitment to the project was demonstrated by its preparing a Concept
Paper which aligned with the PRSP and enthusiasm from Borrower the head of the Public
Service, the Minister of Finance, and other high ranking technocrats. The overall strategic thrust
of the program (expenditure accountability and capacity building) was championed by the
Minister of Finance, while the project directly responded to two pillars of the MPRSP of which
the President was a strong supporter. However, this support soon dissipated as elections
approached and the government and senior bureaucrats began to deal with the issues typical of an
emerging democracy in terms of party politics, the electoral cycle, constitutional challenges by
the sitting president and related matters. This all impacted on the effectiveness of the civil
service, particularly the functioning of the upper echelons of the civil service.

Prior to restructuring providing timely counterpart funding was a problem with the government as
a result of which, implementation was adversely affected. Following the project restructuring, and
after implementing Country Finance parameters, the counterpart funding was no more needed and
this problem was thus resolved.




                                               28
Also, after project restructuring, the Project Secretariat, with support from OPC and MOF, moved
quickly to implement the restructure. Four workshops were held to introduce new subcomponent
managers to the project, to revise subcomponent work plans, procurement plans, training and
M&E plans. Participation in these workshops was very high and subcomponent managers were
generally much more motivated than previously. The secretariat also moved quickly to seek
outstanding no objections for a range of procurements that could not be undertaken before the
restructure because counterpart funds were not being provided by the MOF.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

For the reasons mentioned in the earlier sections, the performance of the FIMTAP Secretariat and
subcomponent units was moderately satisfactory because of the weighting that had to be given to
their low level of performance in the first phase of the project, prior to the first restructuring.
However, as mentioned below, their performance and commitment improved after restructuring,
as they were involved with the project in terms of preparing indicators, annual and quarterly plans.

Project Management: The project prepared its AWPs through a participatory process with full
contribution from all subcomponent managers and their teams under the direction of the Steering
Committee. The FIMTAP Secretariat submitted the AWP, the Training Plan, the Procurement
Plan and the M&E Plan for review by the Bank. Quarterly progress reports were prepared by the
M&E Specialist, highlighting achievements and challenges. The Steering Committee met
quarterly with the participation of Principal Secretaries for each component or subcomponent as
appropriate. The Technical Committee met regularly and on average met once in a month since
the project was restructured. The Project Manager met regularly with the Deputy Chief Secretary
to whom she reported, with subcomponent managers and with other donors as required on
harmonization issues.
Financial Management: An adequate financial management system was maintained in the
project utilizing the FINPRO accounting software. The budget was regularly monitored. Internal
control arrangements in place are adequate to ensure the integrity of the accounting system and
the information generated from it.
All external audit reports were received on time except the last one for the year ended 30 June
2009 which was received two weeks after the deadline. Internal Controls worked well
throughout the implementation of the project such that the project always got unqualified audit
reports and relatively clean management letters.
The FIMTAP Secretariat produced and submitted Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) of good
quality on time. The FM reviews carried out by the Bank all indicated that FIMTAP ran a
satisfactory FM system. There were no incidences of ineligible expenditures and the FA Register
was      well   maintained.   The     project   regularly      reconciled    Bank    Accounts.

Procurement Arrangements: Procurement for the project was satisfactory. Procurement of all
works, goods and technical services under the project followed the Procurement Guidelines
"Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits".

Reporting Arrangements: The FIMTAP Secretariat submitted all required quarterly and annual
reports in a timely manner. These reports were informative, and provided valuable feedback on
how the project was progressing covering all project activities. The status of performance
indicators were incorporated in all progress reports and served as valuable input to Bank
supervision mission reports.


                                                29
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

In light of the government and implementing agency performance as discussed above, the overall
performance of the Borrower was moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

Important factors for the success of a project:
    Continuity of the team working on the project, especially the TTL, is very important both
      for the Bank and the Borrower. Frequent changes in TTL create a certain lack of
      continuity and ownership, and different approaches to supervision. On the other hand, the
      continuity of the Task Team will engender consistency, depth and follow-up in the dialogue
      with the government and provided expertise to help the government analyze issues and
      implement actions as they emerge during supervision.

        The task leadership of a complex project such as FIMTAP should be entrusted to senior
        and more experienced Bank staff, and not to a fresh or newly recruited staff who does not
        have any operational experience with the Bank projects.

Project Design and Capacity Building:

        The project design should be simple and designed for easy implementation and should
        take into account the absorptive capacity of the country and the prevailing political
        context.
        The design and investment in IT infrastructure should anticipate expansion needs. A lack
        of attention to this aspect in FIMTAP implies that the roll out of IFMIS to other districts
        is constrained in the absence of a reliable GWAN.
        Future projects for the public administration that include a capacity building facility
        should be centrally managed (e.g. by DHRMD) to avoid problems of poor coordination,
        lack of collation of training data, and duplication of effort. Also, this would minimize the
        chances of inconsistent application of training guidelines and procedures, especially for
        long term overseas and regional training.
        For efficient use of available resources in a country, project design should take account of
        grant financing from donors, which however, requires more flexible design of capacity
        building activities. This will minimize duplication of efforts, and encourage cost
        effectiveness.
        Changes in political economy are not predictable, but could be better adapted to if project
        design allowed greater flexibility in implementation. It is pertinent therefore, to
        constantly evaluate and adapt to change in circumstances to better maneuver public
        management reform programs.

PIF in capacity building projects helps accelerate the implementation of targeted activities.

Implementation:
    Recruiting specialists for M&E, IT, financial management, and procurement in the
      implementing agency at the beginning of the project is very important so that there will
      not be lack of skills in these matters, and implementation delays can be avoided.



                                                30
        Candidness in project supervision reporting is essential, as is early management attention
        to emerging problems.

        A project should not proceed with Board presentation unless a full technical appraisal and
        feasibility study of its components have been conducted.

        Inter-ministerial and donor coordination is crucial to the success of project
        implementation.

Financial management:
    When there is co-financing, it is important to synchronize the closing dates of Grants
       with the project's closing date.

Monitoring and Evaluation:
    M&E technical committee meetings and annual and quarterly work plans are essential
       tools for monitoring the progress of project activities. Further, regular guidance from the
       steering and technical committees would facilitate smooth project implementation.
Procurement:
    There is need for proper coordination and liaison among the sub components. For
       example, electricity generating sets were procured in two separate processes for capital
       hill and IFMIS, when these could have been procured together.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


(b) Co-financiers

NA

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A




                                               31
                       Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate    Actual /Latest Estimate         Percentage of
        Components
                                  (US$ million)           (US$ million)                Appraisal
Public Service                           8.3                   6.3                       75%
Management and
Rightsizing
Improved Financial                      10.7                   11.4                   106.5%
Management
Human Development                        4.0                    5.2                     130%
Project
Management/FIMTAP
Secretariat                              2.6                                          126.9%
                                                               4.27
Performance Incentive                    0.5                    0.3                      60%
Facility
         Total Baseline Cost            26.1                   26.5                   101.5%
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies                      1.3                    0.9
         Total Project Costs            27.4                   27.4
Project Preparation Facility
(PPF)
Front-end fee (IBRD only)
                                        27.4                   27.4
  Total Financing Required


(a)      Co-financing

                                                 Appraisal            Actual/Latest
                             Type of                                                    Percentage of
 Source of Funds                                 Estimate               Estimate
                            Financing                                                    Appraisal
                                               (US$ million)          (US$ million)
[Government]                                        3.7                   .97                  -
[IBRD/IDA]                                         23.7                  27.4                  -
[Donor A]              [WB-administered               -                     -
                       TF]
[Donor B]              [Parallel financing]             -                   -                  -




                                                   32
                        Annex 2. Outputs by Component

A. Project outputs before restructuring (June 2003 to June 2006)

The project implemented a number of activities under its respective subcomponents as detailed
below.

Component 1: STRENGTHENING ACCOUNTABILITY INSTITUTIONS

Public Accounts Committee and Budget and Finance Committee
Capacity of Public Accounts Committee and Budget and Finance Committee strengthened.

External Audit
Professionalism and timeliness in carrying out external audits enhanced.

Internal Audit
 Central Internal Audit Unit (CIAU) established:
The Central Internal Audit Unit (CIAU) which is now a department was established to oversee
the activities of all internal auditors in ministries and departments. The manuals, terms of
reference and operating guidelines were also developed. The Internal Audit Department
strengthened stakeholder confidence in public institutions by improving accountability in the use
of public resources and reducing potential risks for corruption, fraud and financial
mismanagement.

 Professionalism and timeliness in carrying out internal audits enhanced:
An Internal Audit Charter was produced and submitted to the Ministry of Finance. An Internal
Audit Manual was developed and approved. Staffing levels slightly improved and training was
provided to existing staff. An Internal Audit Common Service was established followed by
internal audit units in MDAs.

Performance Contracting Scheme
 Performance reviews carried out:
Annual performance reviews were conducted for officers engaged on contract (Grade S4/P4 and
above).

Strategic Planning
 Strategic plans for MDAs developed:
Strategic Plans for six ministries/departments were developed. A strategic planning process
handbook and strategic planning framework for the civil service were also developed.

Personnel Audit
 Personnel Audit exercise conducted:
One personnel audit exercise was carried out in 2003.

Expenditure Tracking
 Community-level information on expenditure and performance provided:
One Public Expenditure Tracking Survey (PETS) was conducted in the pilot districts of Mzimba,
Mchinji, Zomba and Chikwawa. The survey was intended to ascertain the flow and utilization of


                                               33
funds to the intended beneficiaries in the rural communities, as reflected in the annual budgets in
an attempt to address poverty.

 Capacity for National Economic Council developed:
Three (3) officers were sent for Masters Degree program to build capacity in the collection and
analysis of data. However, training of key stakeholders on monitoring and evaluation at district
assemblies was not done, since the training was already being provided by UNDP. The
monitoring and evaluation staff of EP&D were trained on software namely "Stata" which
equipped them with skills for poverty analysis.

Component 2: IMPROVING FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS

Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS)
 IFMIS rolled out:
The Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) was designed to provide
standardized integrated financial management system. The system was launched in five pilot sites
namely; Agriculture, Health, Finance, Education and Accountant General's Department. Training
was provided to 5 officers in Project Management, IT and Coda Financials. Office equipment
such as computers and printers were procured and distributed to the five pilot sites. The system
was not rolled out to the rest of government ministries/departments as planned because of the
change of software from CODA Financials to Epicor.

Government Wide Area Network (GWAN)
      Physical network expanded and improved:
Trend Antivirus software was upgraded to version 5. Specifications for GWAN roll out to City
Centre Lilongwe, were developed. Three (3) generators for Capital Hill were procured but not
installed during the period. This was due to incomplete requirements for the procurement and
installation of the generators.

 Institutional structures and capacity developed:
Thirty-three (33) officers were sent on various long-term training programs as follows: five (5) at
Masters Degree level, four (4) at Bachelors degree level and twenty-four (24) at diploma level. In
addition, five (5) officers were trained in various short term industry standard ICT courses during
this period. Twenty-three (23) ministerial and departmental ICT plans were developed.

Component 3: ENHANCING HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT

Capacity Building
 Training needs assessment and capacity assessment of training institutions was conducted.
 Demand driven public sector training delivered and local training institutions strengthened.
A total of 1,034 civil servants were trained and capacity assessment for local training institutions
was carried out. These training institutions included the Malawi Institute of Management (MIM)
and the Staff Development Institute (SDI) who provided several short term training courses on
procurement, financial management and other project management areas.




                                                34
Component 4: PROJECT MANAGEMENT

Objective: To effectively manage the implementation of the project in order to meet the project
objectives.

Output: Project activities effectively implemented and managed.

There was slow progress in implementation of project activities as evidenced by the low
disbursements rate of 32% for a period of 3 years after project effectiveness.

B. Project outputs after restructuring (July 2006  September 2009)

Component 1:PUBLIC SERVICE MANAGEMENT

Performance Contracting

Output 1: Performance Contracting Guidelines (Scheme) developed and applied.

A workable Performance Management System has been developed and implemented at the
central administration level (about 20,000 civil servants). It is now easier for Government to
assess performance of civil servants. When Performance Contracting Scheme was introduced, a
total of 302 officers from Grade S4/P4 and above were engaged on contract terms. By July 2009,
the number of officers who were on contract had significantly been reduced to 196, due to the re-
integration into permanent and pensionable terms. Almost all officers from Grade S4/P4 and
above have been oriented on the management and operations of the performance contracting
scheme.

The Performance Management Scheme was rolled out to all cadres in the civil service in July
2008. Currently, performance contracting activities have had a positive impact in that many
employees have developed their performance agreements (work plans). Roll out of the
Performance Management System to outstation staff is in progress and a training of trainers
program is being arranged.

Output 2: Annual performance reviews conducted.
Performance reviews are being carried out for all officers under contract. Annual performance
agreements are being prepared and are used as a basis for performance assessment. The
performance agreements provide operational direction to civil servants performance and hence
will lead to improved performance.

Output 3: Dispute resolution guidelines in place/developed

Dispute resolution guidelines have been developed to assist employees, supervisors and managers
in the civil service on how to handle and manage disputes arising from assessment of employee
performance.

Personnel Audit
Output: Personnel audit exercise conducted.

A personnel audit exercise of all MDA's was conducted between June and September 2008. Data
that was collected through the personnel audit exercise was used to update the Human Resource



                                               35
Management Information System (HRMIS) database for effective management of the payroll and
human resource records.

Government is paying salaries to bona fide employees based on the authorized establishment.

Strategic Planning

Output 1: Strategic plans for MDAs developed.

Strategic plans are now done regularly. The sub-component targeted 22 ministries, all of which
have developed their strategic plans using a standardized format.

Ministries are now able to prepare their budgets based on their strategic plans and implementation
of programs is more effective now that resources are allocated and used for intended activities.
Resources are being effectively managed.

Output 2: Strategic Planning core teams in ministries trained.

Ministerial and departmental core planning teams comprising 10 officers each were constituted
and trained in strategic and implementation planning. A total 234 officers were trained against a
target of 220. In addition, 150 Local Government officials attended Training of Trainers (TOT)
workshops in order to transfer strategic planning skills to the local assembly staff.

Monitoring and evaluation exercises that were conducted have indicated that the transfer of skills
was successful. The sector plans that were developed and reviewed by the core teams are very
relevant and in line with the standard government approach. MDAs have clear directions for their
future operations and the Ministry of Economic Planning is serving as the lead agency in
facilitating these efforts.

Output 3: Strategic plans aligned to policy and budget development process for all MDAs.

All the strategic plans that were developed by MDAs are aligned to the Malawi Growth and
Development Strategy (MGDS) and are used for sectoral budget development in the respective
institutions. As a result of this, MDAs are now more focused in implementing activities that will
contribute to the achievement of the MGDS thematic areas.

Output 4: Annual reviews on the development, implementation and effectiveness of strategic
plans in MDAs conducted.

Periodic reviews and monitoring exercises on the development and implementation of strategic
plans were conducted. Currently, there is ownership of the plans that are being developed and
their implementation has become more effective.

Human Resource Management Information System (HRMIS)

Output 1: Payroll and establishment controls in place.

The Schedule of Established Offices (Establishment Control) has been fully implemented in
HRMIS. This is in conformity with the budgeted public service establishments and is the basis for




                                               36
the wage bill. The establishment control is centrally managed and adjustments to the
establishment are only done by authorized officers within DHRMD9.

MDAs have access to their respective establishments in "read only" mode. The payroll module
has been fully implemented and is functionally dependent on the establishment control and
employee modules. Security controls have been implemented in HRMIS with full audit trails for
all transactions. Access rights to the system are assigned to various levels of authorized users.

A review of the HRMIS which was carried out in 2008 showed that tremendous progress had
been made in the implementation of the system.

Government has realized the following benefits by putting in place establishment and payroll
controls: wage bill fluctuations have been contained, human resource records management has
improved, salary related acts of fraud have been minimized, and appointments or recruitments are
no longer done without authorized establishment.

Output 2: Human resource records updated.

The establishment control database has been updated and reconciled with information from the
personnel audit exercise of 2008. Employee and payroll databases have also been updated with
information from the personnel audit exercise. During the exercise, 708 ghost workers were
identified and removed from the payroll.

Output 3: Public Service Remuneration Board Bill drafted.

The Public Service Remuneration Board Bill has been drafted and is expected to be tabled soon.
The Bill is intended to empower the Board to oversee remuneration in the public service in order
to adhere to the principle of equal compensation for equal work by rationalizing compensation
structures and improving wage bill management.

Strategies: The output was achieved through a consultancy, task force meetings and stakeholder
workshops.

Design: The design was appropriate.

Capacity Building Facility

Output 1: 1,000 civil servants trained.
The sub-component has trained 1,288 civil servants in both long-term and short-term training
programs that support accountability and transparency in the following areas: accounting, public
finance, auditing, project management, governance, constitutional and administrative law, records
management, procurement, local government financial management, leadership skills and various



9
  For example, the Letter of Development Policy of the Ministry of Finance (April 19, 2010) indicates that
the HRMIS is credible and that regular preparation of audit trail reports would make is effective. Also, an
interface between HRMIS, and the public expenditure management system, IFMIS is envisaged to ensure
that any changes to the payroll are reflected instantaneously in the expenditures categories of wages and
salaries of ministries and departments.



                                                    37
induction programs. The training programs have equipped public officers with necessary skills
and knowledge to effectively carry out their day to day duties.

The sub-component has also overseen training in other subcomponents and coordinated the
training of 24 coordinators.

Output 2: Management of the training function in DHRMD strengthened.

The output was achieved through the implementation of the following activities:
         Impact assessment of short courses delivered up to 2007 to determine short term
            impact of training programs under FIMTAP.
         Management of training agreements signed by staff sent on long term overseas and
            regional training.
         Consolidation of training records to have a database for FIMTAP training
            beneficiaries.
         Skills audit survey to determine availability of skills for implementation of the
            MGDS and other national developmental goals.
         Review of the training guidelines to ensure that all training and staff development
            interventions are objectively and consistently managed in all public institutions.
         Review of the training consortium with a view to incorporating other training
            institutions, and;
         Drafting of a National Qualifications Framework Bill for the establishment of the
            National Qualifications Authority that will be mandated to oversee and regulate
            qualifications quality assurance bodies in the country.

Rationalization of Foreign Missions

Output 1: Four foreign missions closed.

Four missions namely Ottawa, Nairobi, Tripoli and Paris were closed and 15 serving officers
recalled. The closure of the missions was meant to enable the Government of Malawi achieve a
lean and economic diplomatic service.

Output 2: Officers recalled from the Foreign Service. Thirty-seven officers were recalled from
existing foreign missions. Additionally, the MOFAIC began collaboration with the Ministry of
Industry, Trade and Private Sector Development to work together on staffing missions from a
cohort of at least 20 officers trained as commercial and trade attaches to greater professionalize
Malawi's diplomatic missions and focus them on supporting the government's economic growth
policy.

Output 3: Trade and Commercial Attachs oriented.
Twenty-five trade and commercial attachs were oriented in trade and investment functions using
local resources. Fifteen of these officers were posted to various missions and they are expected to
promote trade and commercial activities between Malawi and their respective host countries
represented.

Economic Policy Support

Output 1: Debt and aid information flow improved.



                                                38
Most donors are now providing quarterly and annual disbursement projections and monthly actual
disbursements data. The Debt and Aid Division (DAD) is now able to produce semi-annual and
annual publications of Debt and Aid Reports. The subcomponent also produces quarterly progress
reports by aggregating and analyzing the reports from the quarterly project monitoring exercises
using the Aid Management Platform web-based software developed by the Development
Gateway and used to manage aid and debt flows in real time

Output 2: Negotiation skills on economic policy issues improved.
Negotiation skills have been acquired by officers in the Debt and Aid Division as well as the
Economic Affairs Division of the Ministry of Finance through training provided by the economic
policy and debt management consultants provided by the project. This has also been supported
through the involvement of both Treasury officers in high level negotiations of loans/grants and
other financing deliberations between Government and donors.

Output 3: Economic policy research conducted.
Two business interviews were conducted and reports produced. These reports have provided
policy direction to the government with regard to the private sector. In addition, two public
expenditure reviews were conducted and the recommendations fed into the national budget.
Furthermore, three Government Finance Statistics (GFS) surveys were conducted and GFS
reports for 2005/06 and 2006/07 financial years were compiled and submitted to the International
Monetary Fund (IMF).

Output 4: Strategic direction for Debt and Aid provided.
The Debt Department has produced External Debt Guidelines and a Debt and Aid Policy which
was recently approved by Cabinet. The Debt and Aid Policy provides guidelines to the
government and development partners on debt and aid management issues.

Output 5: Disbursements and project implementation plans matched.
The Ministry of Finance carried out quarterly physical project monitoring at implementation sites
and conducted regular consultative meetings with all stakeholders involved in project
implementation. The Ministry is able to compare actual funds disbursed to projects with the
physical progress on the ground. This enables the ministry to identify mismatches and hence
engage concerned parties in resolving the anomalies.

Output 6: Economic Statistics and Planning Products.
The subcomponent has been able to produce several policy documents such as the Government
Finance Statistics Report (GFS, starting in 2006); quarterly and annually disbursement
projections and monthly actual disbursement data; economic and fiscal statements (starting in
2007); and Business Interviews reports on selected macroeconomic topics related to the public
investment program.

Component 2: IMPROVING EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT

Government Wide Area Network
Output 1: GWAN rolled out.
Nine government buildings at City Centre in Lilongwe have been connected to the existing
GWAN through fiber optic cable bringing the total to 29. The full roll out of GWAN to Mzuzu,
Blantyre is in progress.. At the end of the project, 76 additional government buildings were
connected to the existing GWAN in Lilongwe. Through this expansion, there is now improved
flow of information within government offices, greater access to email, enhanced network
security, disaster recovery facilities, upgraded equipment to enhance reliability (routers, servers


                                                39
and switches) and greater use of government domains for websites and email, rather than total
reliance of Internet Service Providers (ISPs) and other third party service providers.

Output 2: Back-up electricity in place.
The three generators for Capital Hill which were procured before the restructuring of the project
were installed, commissioned and are operational. In addition, two generators were procured and
installed at Mzuzu and Blantyre government offices. twenty-one Uninterruptible Power Supply
Units (UPS) were procured and installed where network switches have been deployed and at the
network operating centre to ensure network continuity The generators and UPSs will ensure
continuous use of the system by providing standby electricity in the event of a power failure, to
all offices at Capital Hill, at Lilongwe Old Town offices and the regional centers of Blantyre,
Zomba and Mzuzu.

Output 3: GWAN information systems secured.
GWAN internet capacity was upgraded from 256/256 kilobits per second (kbps) to 2048/512
kbps, an increase of eight times since 2003. Internet technology was enhanced from using leased
lines to use of Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) satellite technology. A server based
antivirus (Trend Anti-virus) was installed on GWAN. The network firewall was enhanced by
installing an advanced Intrusion Protection System (IPS). A Linux proxy server to control internet
traffic was also installed. twenty-four air conditioners were procured and installed where network
switches have been deployed and also in the Network Operating Centre (NOC) to ensure an
optimal operator environment and to reduce network outages, particularly in summer. In order to
increase the uptime of GWAN, the network equipment is maintained regularly and additional
training provided to network maintenance staff.

Output 4: ICT Management Unit established.
Three studies were carried out on the review of ICT functions at the Department of Information
Systems and Technology management Services (DISTMS), ICT Common Service, and Facilities
Management Unit (FMU). However, the recommendations of these studies are awaiting
implementation, as funding was not available under the project for their implementation. Funding
had originally been expected from UNDP but has not yet been materialized.

Output 5: Information Technology Staff Trained.
Three officers were sent on long-term training programs to undertake masters degree programs in
key network management skills and 67 Officers were trained in various short term industry
standard information and communications technology (ICT) courses, including Microsoft
Certified Engineer, Cisco certification (for network management) and network security training.
Although overall IT skills capacity has improved some staff that received long term training left
the government to work for the private sector.

Internal Audit
Output 1: Internal Audit legal framework developed.
The Legal Framework was developed and submitted to the Ministry of Justice for further action.
This framework would amend the Public Finance and Management Act to ensure that
recommendations made by internal audits were acted upon and that sanctions would occur, if they
were not. Additionally, the legislation would recognize the existence of the Internal Audit Charter
and its provisions. This would make internal audit standards equivalent of those of the National
Audit Office, the country's Supreme Audit Institution.




                                                40
Output 2: Internal Audit Charter developed.
The Internal Audit Charter was finalized and is awaiting approval from the Secretary to the
Treasury. The Charter empowers the Audit Department to have organizational independence, a
formal mandate, unrestricted access, competent leadership and staff, stakeholder support and
compliance with professional internal audit and ethical standards. The Charter was initially
developed in 2005 and was revised in 2007 on advice from the Ministry of Justice. The charter
itself will require recognition within the Public Finance Management Act to be effective, but
government has not moved to incorporate it into the Act.

Output 3: Internal Auditors trained.
A total of 286 internal auditors were trained in both long-term and short-term programs in
accounting and auditing to support accountability and transparency. Out of the total internal
auditors trained, 56 underwent long-term programs while 230 attended short term programs. As a
result of the training programs, government is now getting quality audits and reports, although
there continues to be some delays in Principal Secretaries acting on audit recommendations. This
is compounded by an institutional design issue, whereby currently responsibility for enforcing
follow-up on internal audit reports rests with the Secretary to the Treasury rather than the Central
Internal Audit Unit or even the National Audit Office.

Output 4: Internal Audit Committees (IACs) in MDAs established.
Functional IACs have been established in all MDAs. The committees meet regularly and provide
reports on their activities to the NAO, CIAU, Treasury and OPC. Government is now able to plan
its finances and operate more effectively by taking account of audits presented to the IACs which
are involved in determining the annual Audit Strategic Plan for their respective ministries.
However, as pointed out above, IACs are slow to act on recommendations of audit reports,
especially those that require procedural changes or identify institutional weaknesses.10

Public Procurement Capacity Building
Output 1: Management Information System (MIS) and website for public procurement
established.
The website for public procurement was developed in 2006 with financial assistance from the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). MDAs that have internet connectivity can
now easily upload and access information from the ODPP website, including bids, bid-related
dates and activities and the award of contracts. This has improved the flow of information
between ODPP, the procuring entities, and potential bidders thereby assisting them to conduct
procurement in accordance with the law and more transparently.

Under FIMTAP, 102 computers were bought and distributed to the various procuring entities for
use in the Specialized Procurement Units (SPUs) within each MDA. However the computers
were not connected to the ODPP website because the appropriate management Information
System (MIS) software was not budgeted for. The World Bank in 2009, suggested that AGD
allow ODPP to activate the procurement module in the EPICOR IFMIS system for this purpose,
but funds on the budget could not sufficiently cover the cost of activation, licensing and user fees
as quoted by the supplier, an issue which is being pursued through the government's annual
budget process. Nonetheless, MDAs and bidders can log into the ODPP site through the




10
     The former Director and the current Acting Director of the CIAU have raised this concern over several years.




                                                           41
Procurement Reporting System gateway as registered users and supply data and information to
ODPP for action.

Output 2: Implementation of the Public Procurement Act (2003) monitored, in at least 40% of
the MDAs.
30 out of 40 (75 per cent) MDAs were assessed for compliance with the Public Procurement Act
(PPA) (2003) from October to December 2008. A report on each of the entities visited was
compiled and the entities have been formally informed on their performance ratings. The report
has also helped ODPP in designing interventions to assist the non-complying entities, which
ODPP has continued to follow-up on in association with each MDAs respective IPC and SPU
where necessary

Output 3: Legislation on asset management and related storage instructions and manuals
developed.
Regulations on asset management and disposal of public assets have been developed and
forwarded to the Ministry of Justice for promulgation by the Minister. OPDD continues to work
with ADG to access and use the asset management module of the EPICOR IFMIS to roll-out
asset management in MDAs in future.

Output 4: Capacity of Internal Procurement Committees (IPCs) and Specialized Procurement
Units (SPUs) built and Procurement Reporting Implemented
ODPP has trained a total of 455 officers in public procurement principles and procedures against
a planned target of 360. These officers were drawn from the various MDAs. Most of these
officers serve in the SPUs or the IPCs of the said institutions. This has greatly improved the
manner in which public procurement is conducted thereby assisting government realize value for
money from procurement proceedings. As there was no baseline on the impact of not having
properly trained procurement staff within a Procurement Common Service and Internal
Procurement Committees, it is not possible to quantify the impact these reforms have had.
However, with the introduction of monthly procurement reports by IPCs to ODPP, procurement
expenditure can now be effectively tracked and monitored and aberrant behavior identified by
ODPP's Monitoring Unit and investigated. Following investigation by ODPP, if corruption is
suspected, the matter is referred to the Anti-corruption Bureau (ACB) for further investigation
and possible prosecution. By the end of the project, four such cases had been referred to the ACB.

Output 5: A cadre of procurement specialists developed.
The ODPP facilitated a twinning arrangement between the University of Bolton in the United
Kingdom and the Malawi Institute of Management (MIM) to locally offer a masters degree in
Supply Chain Management. The project sponsored 20 government officers on this program and
the first cohort graduated in May, 2009. Meanwhile, the program, which includes a component on
public procurement in Malawi, has been incorporated in the institutions' curriculum and is being
offered on commercial basis.

MIM and the Staff Development Institute (SDI) were also contracted to offer the Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply (CIPS) courses at diploma and certificate levels, respectively.
A total of 47 officers have benefited from these programs.

Government currently has more officers who are qualified in procurement than at any other time;
however, some leakage of trained officers to the private sector has been noticed. Furthermore,
the officers qualified at Masters Degree level are participating in various capacity building
programs at the Polytechnic (bachelors degree awarded by the University of Malawi) and MIM as



                                               42
lecturers as well as providing local basic training to PEs, IPCs and SPUs, which has proved cost
effective.

Output 6: Professional body for procurement personnel established.
The Malawi Institute of Procurement and Supply (MIPS) was registered in November 2008 and
officially launched on 30th January 2009. This is the body that is responsible for the promotion
and regulation of the procurement profession in Malawi. The key positions in the institute have
been filled and the body is now operational. MIPS has developed a strategic relationship with the
British Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply and will move towards developing a local
certification and accreditation system as funding and support from the profession makes this
possible, based on the model of the Society of Accountants in Malawi (SOCAM).

Output 7: Capacity in undertaking procurement audits built.
Three officers from ODPP and the National Audit Office participated in the auditing of thirty (30)
government entities for the 2005/06 and 2006/07 financial years, through working with a
consultant from Uganda. However, the Terms of Reference (ToRs) for the consultant focused
more on conducting procurement audits rather than skills transfer to Malawian procurement
professionals. As such the number of government officers attached to the consultant was much
lower and limited capacity building occurred. A second consultancy was then contracted to build
on the first exercise but to focus on skills transfer, thus providing these officers with the capacity
to undertake and train others in procurement audits.

Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS)
Output 1: Back-up electricity in place.
Three generators were procured and installed in the three Regional Central Payment Offices
(CPOs) namely Blantyre, Zomba and Mzuzu. However the credit agreement did not have a works
category, although small and relatively inexpensive housings were built for each of the three units
on Capital Hill. The Department of Accountant General used its own local resources to construct
a generator house for the Mzuzu CPO which resulted in significant delays in the installation of
the generator, which by the end of the project was, however, fully installed and operational The
generators ensure the continuous use of the system by providing standby electricity in the event
of a power failure.

Output 2: Capacity Development of Professional Accountants in ADG
During 2007/8, through the Capacity Building Facility three officers were sent to complete a
Masters Degree in Finance and Information Technology in Accounting Program at the University
of Coventry in the United Kingdom. All returned to ADG following completion of their studies.
Additionally, five officers were sponsored for training in specialized areas of financial
management towards the end of 2008, at regional training centers, e.g. ESAMI.

Component 3: PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE FACILITY

Output: Implementation of project activities accelerated.
The Performance Incentive Facility was a mechanism put in place for rewarding all the
subcomponents upon achieving agreed quarterly targets. The PIF was slow to be effective,
although in the design of the project restructure, subcomponent managers had enthusiastically
supported its establishment. For example, by June 2008, the component had only disbursed
US$70,263 representing 15% of its allocation. However, at the same time, Commitments were
$185,774 made up of the paid but not claimed PIF grants of US$73,794 and US$111,980 for
contracts awarded for purchase of goods. This brought total expenditure to US$256,037 which
represented 52% of the PIF allocation. Some of the challenges encountered included late


                                                 43
submission of requests by subcomponents, which delayed the utilization of funds and the
increasing costs of good in particular due to the maintenance of high inflation rates, thus leaving
subcomponent managers with less choice on what to spend even the maximum grant of $5,000.
This issue was addressed in the minor restructure in early 2009, which raised the maximum PIF
grant to $10,000. This change resulted in a slightly more accelerated usage of the PIF, resulting at
closure in US$ 341,569.37 being disbursed, representing 68.31% of the amount allocated for the
PIF.

Through this facility, sub-components' activities were accelerated and in return were able to use
the funds to complement their activities. However, the usage of the PIF was somewhat
disappointing given the initial enthusiasm for it, but reflecting in reality a reluctance to claim the
funds even though they were allocated quarterly by the Technical Committee. The most obvious
explanation for this reluctance is the perceived decreasing value of the grants with respect to the
goods and services most sought for their use; specialized regional training, servers and larger
equipment and maintenance.

Component 4: PROJECT MANAGEMENT

Output: Project activities implemented and managed.
The Project was managed by the FIMTAP Secretariat under the direction of the Project Steering
Committee with the assistance of the Project Technical Committee. Additionally, in the original
design, provision was made for a subcommittee of the Steering Committee, a Financial
Management Sub-Committee representing the Ministry of Finance, Office of the Accountant
General, NAO and representatives of professional organizations to oversee financial management
of the project. As all of these representatives were already members of the Steering Committee,
the sub-committee was subsumed into the Steering Committee and its responsibilities exercised
by the whole committee. In terms of having a representatives of professional organizations, the
respective president of the Society of Accountants in Malawi, filled this position for the life of the
project.

The Steering Committee, chaired by the Chief Secretary, provided oversight and direction for the
project and regularly reviewed progress of project implementation. This committee met quarterly.

The Technical Committee ensured that there was effective management of project resources and
assisted in the preparation of sub-component work plans for consolidation by the FIMTAP
secretariat into annual work plans. The Secretariat also monitored and evaluated the
implementation of project activities including the preparation of quarterly and annual progress
reports. The committee met on a monthly basis. However, adhoc meetings were also conducted as
the need arose. Its membership comprised subcomponent coordinators and Secretariat staff. The
effective functioning of the Technical Committee was critical to project implementation. Prior to
the first project restructure it met infrequently, but during and following the restructure in July
2006, it was very active and met regularly, demonstrating strong commitment from the
subcomponent managers.

The FIMTAP Secretariat was entrusted with the day to day management of the project,
disbursement of funds, procurement, monitoring and evaluation of project activities. The
Secretariat was a hybrid project management unit, in that it was housed within OPC and the
Project Manager reported to the Chief Secretary, OPC. All human resource and financial issues
were dealt with within both the government framework and the Bank's guidelines. For example,
procurement requests had to first meet ODPP guidelines and then were sent to the Bank for No
Objection. Thus Secretariat operations took account of country systems. The Secretariat


                                                 44
successfully managed the implementation of the project activities as evidenced by the high
project disbursement rate of 99.8% and the outputs attainment by the subcomponents.

Financial Management: The project introduced and implemented a computerized accounting
system, FIMPROTOMPRO only 1 years after inception. Despite the Secretariat losing some
of members of staff over the project duration, all disbursement requests were processed on time.
The major challenge for the Secretariat was the use of the traditional method of disbursements
which usually resulted in cash flow problems. The nature of this project was such that most
transactions were small but numerous and below thresholds. Such transactions relied heavily on
payments against the special account which had a limited float, and warranted regular
replenishments, which caused a strain on the accounts personnel. The FMR method of
disbursement on the other hand, provides advance funding which makes the cash readily available
to the project. The project therefore requested, and was allowed to change over to the FMR
method in early 2008. Despite the above challenge, the project achieved almost 99.8%
disbursement rate and spent in real terms $ 27,324,224, or 4.1 billion Malawi kwacha.

It is however important to mention that it is practically impossible to achieve a 100% expenditure
rate in an unstable economic environment of foreign exchange fluctuations; when the Credit is
designated in one currency XDR and yet expenditure is in a different currency i.e. USD. Due to
fluctuations of the two currencies, the amount of money available for expenditure varied from
time to time as such, planning for such usage was difficult. However, in the last nine months of
the project, the Secretariat accounting staff maintained a close watch on the XDR exchange rate
and adjusted their estimate of the viability of the procurement plan accordingly. This allowed the
project to achieve such a high rate of disbursement.

Procurement: Despite the inadequate staffing in the procurement unit which initially led to the
delayed procurement of some goods and services, the project never encountered any mis-
procurements or ineligible expenditures. The project purchased considerable amounts of
equipment and vehicles which were distributed to the subcomponents for use on project activities.

Monitoring & Evaluation: As previously mentioned, it took a long time for the Secretariat to
employ an M&E Specialist, and it was not until after the first project restructure that an M&E
Specialist was employed. However, since that time, the project carried out effective monitoring
and evaluation to the extent that all planned activities were implemented and targets achieved in
line with annual and quarterly work plans. The success of monitoring and evaluation relied on
regular discussions and consultations with subcomponent coordinators, on the effective
management and utilization of project resources to achieve the desired outputs and outcomes.
Additionally, the M&E Specialist managed the PIF, as grants from the PIF were linked directly to
performance against the work plan for each subcomponent in each quarter. Thus performance
discussions based on the work plans were designed to also maintain a high awareness of the
availability of small supplementary funds from the PIF. However, it would seem, as discussed
previously, that this had less of a catalyst effect than anticipated.




                                               45
      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
            (including assumptions in the analysis)

N/A




                              46
               Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation
                     Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
          Names                              Title                 Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
R. Floyd                    Task Team Leader                      AFTPR
D. Mphande                  Financial Management Specialist       AFTQK
S. Dhingra                  Procurement Specialist                AFTQK
J. Nyirendra                Procurement Specialist                AFTQK
R. Castro                   Project Management                    AFTPR
N. Dinkin                   Task Team Assistant                   AFTQK
D. Kianpour                 Sr. EGovernment, Specialist          AFTQK IFMIS
D. Masone                   Operations Officer                    AFTQK M&E
Supervision/ICR
R. Worthington              Task Team Leader                       AFTPR
S. Kofi Awanyo              Sr. Procurement Specialist             EAPPR
S. B. Chenjerani Chirwa     Sr. Procurement Specialist             AFTPC
F. M. Chitalu               Financial Management Specialist        AFTFM
T. Gebreiyesus              Lead Procurement Specialist            SARPS
C. Kamwendo                 Operations Officer                    AFMMW
P. M. Kayuni                Task Assistant                        AFMMW
F. Kanyerere Mkandawire     Financial Management Specialist       AFTFM
D. H. Mphande               Sr. Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
P. Palale                   Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.             AFTPR
G. J. Alwyn Van Der Linde   Lead Financial Management Spec        AFTFM
R. A. Yungu                 Sr. Public Sector Specialist          AFTPR




                                             47
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 FY03                                       26                       148.25
 FY04                                                                  0.00
 FY05                                                                  0.00
 FY06                                                                  0.00
 FY07                                                                  0.00
 FY08                                                                  0.00
                          Total:            26                       148.25

Supervision/ICR
 FY03                                      5                          24.31
 FY04                                     35                         170.02
 FY05                                     35                         151.75
 FY06                                     41                         161.43
 FY07                                     46                         218.10
 FY08                                     31                         144.90
 FY09                                     22                           0.00
                          Total:         215                         870.51




                                       48
      Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                      49
      Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                             50
   Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on
                         Draft ICR
IMPLEMENTATION
FIMTAP was a 5 year project, initially planned to run from June 2003 to March 2008. Due to
some technicalities, the project was restructured in 2006 and the closing date was extended to 1st
September 2009. The restructuring of the project in 2006 was affected in order to rectify a
number of problems that were affecting its implementation, some of which are: complex design
of the project, inadequate government counterpart funding, frequent changes in Task Team
Leaders (TTLs), and delays in obtaining no objections. Through the restructure, the projects
development objective was simplified and refocused.

ACHIEVEMENTS
The major achievements of the project include:
       strengthened Performance Management System in the Malawi Civil Service;
       development of realistic budgets which are based on national development policies and
         strategic plans;
       controlled wage bill and improved records management through Personnel Audits and
         Human Resource Management Information System (HRMIS);
       improved communication within and outside government through the roll out of
         Government Wide Area Network (GWAN);
       effective management of Debt and Aid and economic affairs through the provision of
         economic advisory services to the Ministry of Finance,
       improved service delivery through various capacity development programmes;
       uninterruptible power supply through provision of back-up generators;
       effective and efficient use of public resources through capacity building in Public
         Procurement;
       strengthened internal expenditure controls in ministries and departments through the
         establishment of Central Internal Audit Unit (now Internal Audit Department);
       Right sized diplomatic service through the rationalization of foreign missions.

KEY CHALLENGES

The following were the main challenges that affected the implementation of the Project before the
restructuring:
        i.   Ambiguity in the project design in terms of defining targets and outputs.
       ii.   Inadequate counterpart funding.
      iii.   Delays in obtaining No Objections from the World Bank.
      iv.    Low levels of commitment and ownership among subcomponent managers.
       v.    Frequent changes in the Task Team Leaders (TTLs).
      vi.    Delays in procurement of some goods and services which retarded project
             implementation.
The following were the main challenges that affected the implementation of the Project after the
restructuring:
           a) Retention of officers after obtaining professional/academic qualifications was
               difficult due to uncompetitive remuneration package in the civil service. Annex 3B
               presents the detailed retention figures.


                                               51
         b) Inappropriate selection criteria of candidates by some subcomponents led to low
            pass rate for those registered for professional studies. This resulted in unmet targets
            and high training costs.
         c) Absence of a management information system led to inconsistencies in the reporting
            of progress on project activities.
         d) Inadequate staffing of the Procurement Unit in the Secretariat resulted in delays in
            the procurement of goods and services thereby affecting overall project
            implementation. This was compounded by additional requests under PIF and EU.
         e) Delays in granting no objections and non-response from the World Bank IT
            Department affected implementation of some project activities, in particular the
            implementation of GWAN roll out.
         f) The Bank's conditionality to review the HRMIS delayed implementation of
            activities in this sub-component.
         g) Coordination of training activities was difficult because subcomponents were
            implementing capacity building activities autonomously.

LESSONS LEARNT
In the course of implementing the project, the following lessons were learnt:

    a) Use of annual and quarterly work plans and regular monitoring and evaluation technical
       committee meetings accelerate progress on the implementation of project activities.

    b) Greater participation, guidance and commitment of both the steering and technical
       committees enhance implementation of projects as activities are effectively monitored
       and reviewed, at regular intervals.

    c) Changes in government policies may negatively impact the implementation of the
       designed project, with respect to the achievement of targets.

    d) Centrally controlled procurement, coupled with inadequate staffing in the Secretariat
       Procurement Unit, may delay the implementation of some project activities.

    e) The Performance Incentive Facility (PIF) acts as a catalyst for sub-components in
       adhering to deadlines and targets. For FIMTAP, PIF really accelerated progress in
       implementation of activities.

    f) Future projects should include capacity building components as it equips staff with
       requisite skills for efficient service delivery.

    g) Involvement of implementing agencies in the design of a project enables implementers
       understand and own the project, hence achieve the defined objectives.

    h) Future projects should include operating costs for the grace period (period after project
       completion), to allow project staff to avail themselves with facilities that will enable them
       to smoothly complete the required end of project reports, such as year end financial
       statements and ICR; for a smooth handover to the borrower, the Malawi Government.




                                                52
RECOMMENDATIONS

    a) Government needs to come up with clear retention policy for officers trained as
       enormous resources are invested in this area.

    b) Procurement of routine office supplies should be decentralized to the subcomponents to
       minimize delays.

    c) Projects should acquire integrated management information system software at the outset
       which includes financial, monitoring and evaluation and procurement modules for easy
       generation of standardized reports.

    d) The Bank should improve on the response speed to requests for "no objection" and
       clarifications to reduce delays in the implementation of activities.

    e) Implementing agencies should be actively involved in project design and planning for
       better understanding and easy implementation of project activities.

    f) Any project design should include operating costs for the grace period (period after
       project completion).

    g) For sustainability of project activities after project closure, a sustainability plan should be
       included in the ICR, and the government should critically review the plan for an
       appropriate action, in an attempt to avoid project structures and services becoming white
       elephants. All training activities need to be centrally managed in a mandated sub-
       component for easy coordination and reduction of duplications.

    h) Government must Endeavour to sustain project activities after closure to avoid project
       structures becoming irrelevant

SUSTAINABILITY

A sustainability plan has been developed to assist the Malawi Government pursue issues of
capacity building, budgeting, retention of staff, institutionalization of processes, leadership and
ownership, dissemination of instruments, systems and structures.

CONCLUSION

Overall, FIMTAP has achieved its intended objective of strengthening the financial management
system and promoting transparency and accountability in the Malawi Public Service. The project
implemented all the planned activities and achieved a disbursement rate of 99.8%.




                                                 53
      Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other
                 Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                           54
                    Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
        Project Implementation Plan

        Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

        Project Progress Reports.

        Project Appraisal Document for the Republic of Malawi: Financial Management,
        Transparency, and Accountability Project (FIMTAP) dated February 4, 2003 (Report No:
        25032-MAI)

        Memo to the President for the Level One Project Restructuring

        Borrower's Evaluation Report dated February 2010


*including electronic files




                                              55
               Annex 10: Calculation of Weighted Rating

                        Against Original     Against        Overall
                             PDO             Revised
                                             PDO
1     Rating               Moderately        Satisfactory
                          Unsatisfactory
2     Rating value              3                 5
3     Weight (%               32%                68%
      disbursed
      before/after
      PDO change)
4     Weighted                 0.96              3.40            4.36
      value (2 x 3)
5     Final rating                                           Moderately
      (rounded)                                              Satisfactory


Value for each rating: Highly Satisfactory=6, Satisfactory=5, Moderately Satisfactory=4,
Moderately Unsatisfactory=3, Unsatisfactory=2, and Highly Unsatisfactory=1




                                           56
MAP NO. 133440




      57
