                                                             97570 September 23, 2010
Malawi: Financial Management Transparency and Accountability Project (FIMTAP)




 STRENGTHENING PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

 Improving Service Delivery and Accountability through
 Information Technology and Capacity Development




Overview
Using International Development Association (IDA) funding since 2003, Malawi has built a
national government communications network; revised its public sector accounting system to be
more efficient, accountable and linked to the budget; and introduced new payroll and human
resource management (HRM) and debt management systems. An effective Integrated Financial
Management Information System is linked to the budget development system to streamline
budget and cost estimates. All government bank accounts can now be consolidated into a
Treasury Single Account for greater control and accountability of the cash budget and to better
control public debt management, providing far greater control over the public wage bill.


Challenge
Upon transitioning to multi-party democracy in the mid-
                                                                    More Results
1990s, Malawi undertook a broad range of public sector
reforms, including on aspects of its civil service system, to

                                                                    645 km
strengthen the institutional framework for service delivery.
Despite some successes, Malawi, like many countries in
Sub-Saharan Africa, made only modest progress in
achieving fiscal discipline and operational efficiency in the       coverage area of of a national
                                                                    government virtual private
public service. Key challenges faced included: expenditure          network (VPN) linking all major
and debt management, accountability (particularly budget            cities and all ministries,
                                                                    departments and agencies of
discipline), better financial management capacity, and greater      government
general efficiency in the public service delivery.
Budgetary resources were spread thinly, with continuing


                                                                    50 km
pressure to overspend, while there continued to be large
variations between planned and actual expenditures, and
non-compliance with financial rules and regulations. In
addition, lack of effective financial management, audit and         of urban fiber optic networks to
procurement functions and inadequate capacity in these and          link government buildings in
                                                                    major cities
associated functions in the public sector continued to
hamper the government's ability to effectively and efficiently
carry out service delivery functions critical to achieving the

                                                                    2,038
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).


Approach                                                            number of staff trained in
                                                                    management, accounting, law,
The Financial Management Transparency and Accountability            procurement and human
                                                                    resources management
Project (FIMTAP) was designed to provide a toolkit of
solutions to poor fiscal discipline, transparency, accountability
and operational inefficiency in the public service, all of which
undermine achievement of the MDGs. The approach helped               Financial Management
the government prioritize tasks in each of the above areas,          Transparency and Accountability
                                                                     Project
and provided tools to monitor deliverables, which were
aligned with an incentive scheme with supplementary funding          Malawi Country Brief
for target achievement. Overall, the project focused on              Improving Health in Malawi
providing critical service delivery infrastructure (e.g. a
broadband communications system, accounting hardware                 World Bank funds Government
                                                                     of Malawi to implement CODA
and software) and capacity building, and institutional
                                                                     financial management system
strengthening, including establishing a bachelors program in
procurement at Malawi Polytechnic; instituting a National            Malawi Government Civil
Procurement Profession body; and launching a government              Service Information and
                                                                     Communications (ICT) Strategy
procurement website as the basis of e-procurement.
                                                                     and Plan

                                                                     National Audit Office Newsletter,
Results                                                              June 2006

One key focus of FIMTAP was to build a robust Information            Malawi moves to install
and Communications Technology (ICT) infrastructure for the           Lilongwe fibre network
public service which could improve internal efficiency and           Public Finance Management
accountability (e.g. beginning the development of a                  Reform in Malawi: SIDA Country
government intranet, e-mail, document transfer and on-line           Economic Report 2005:1
access to financial management and human resource and                New Professional Body to Raise
staffing information for all Ministries, Departments, and            Procurement Profile
Agencies (MDAs) and provide a framework for electronic
delivery of some services. This was done by:

       The development of a national government virtual
       private network (VPN) covering an area of 645 km
       linking all major cities and all ministries, departments and agencies of government (June
       2006)—as a result, government benefits from efficient intra-government communications
       and business transactions;

       Initial development of electronic transactions of public services through the public
       procurement website to facilitate improved access by the private sector (July 2006);

       Development of 50 km of urban fiber optic networks to link government buildings in
       major cities, including a Disaster Recovery Center in association with the U.S. Agency
       for International Development (USAID) (April 2008);

       Trained 45 senior ICT technical staff to manage network operations (June 2009) and
       trained 2,038 staff in management, accounting, law, procurement and HRM and
       replaced or installed critical equipment for all these functions;

       Provided approximately 1,800 senior staff with access to internet services through the
       VPN, with expansion to all civil servants in the four major cities as equipment becomes
       available;

       Implemented effective control over public procurement that is regularly monitored and
       reported to the national procurement authority and provided critical training across areas
       of public sector accountability for more efficient management by MDAs.



Bank Contribution
Although the initial IDA allocation was US$23.7 million equivalent, the final cost was US$27.7
million due to exchange fluctuations.


Partners
A strong informal partnership was established with other development partners working in the
public sector under the umbrella of the IDA-financed project. This partnership led to an
informal, but effective coordination of activities in several areas:  Audit and accounting (USAID
US$3.7 million and the European Commission €2 million); ICT (United Nations Development
Programme UNDP US$2 million) and procurement (UNDP US$5 million, USAID US$.95
million); and capacity building (USAID US$2.9 million). Coordination meetings were regularly
held between development partners and recipient agencies. Furthermore, the donor
harmonization network provided other coordination and information-sharing mechanisms, and
helped harmonized efforts in areas such as public finance.


Moving Forward
The IDA-financed Malawi Social Action Fund Phase 2, which launched in June 2008, included
US$5 million equivalent in support of capacity building in areas such as auditing, accounting,
procurement and service delivery at the local government level. This project built on the work
done at the central government level, and leveraged the government communications network
to integrate local and national government financial and HRM systems. These activities also
complemented work already done by UNDP and the German Agency for Technical Cooperation
(GTZ), which was requested by local governments who wanted more efficient procedures to
help reduce funding delays from central government. This request gives greater assurance of
sustainability because of the strong ownership by local governments.


Beneficiaries
With just a small staff dedicated to improvement and with support from IDA through FIMTAP,
many changes were made in only three years. The beneficiaries of improvements include
patients at health centers benefitting from improved delivery of drugs to clinics, pupils
benefitting from broader availability of schoolbooks at schools, and farmers benefitting from
improved delivery of fertilizers. The procurement service was professionalized, all procurement
staff trained, bachelors and masters degrees introduced at local institutions, e-procurement
initiated, and new laws, regulations and procedures were introduced to make Malawi’s public
procurement one of the most transparent and accountable in Africa, thus benefitting the
population of Malawi as a whole.
