FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 232a-MAG
APPRAISAL OF A
RAILWAY PROJECT
MADAGASCAR
December 26, 1973
Regional Projects Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be publishcd, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS-
Unit            =    Malagasy Franc (FMxG)
US$1            =    FMG 21-5.00t
FMG 1           =    US$ C.0OL,ti5
FMG 1 million         US$ h,651
WEIGHTS AM) MEASURMS: METRIC
1 meter (m)                   =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)            =  35.29 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (kn)               =  0.62 mile (mi)'
1 square kilometer (km2)    =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                 =  2.17 acres (ac)
1 kilogran  (kg)               =  2.2 pounds (1b)
1 metric ton (m ton)          =  2,20LI pounds (1b)
1 liter (1)                    =  0.22 Lnperial gallon (Ip>
= 0.26 US gallors (gal)
GLOSSARY OF ABBEVIATICNS
CCCE   -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CIBA   -  Complexe Industriel du Boisc d'Arndasibe
CCFACE -  Compagnie Francaise d'Assurance pour le Com.xerce  lc.,érieur
MAT    -  Ministère de lArnenagemeni, du Territoire
RNCFM,  -  Reseau National des Chexrjins de Fer 4alagasy
SCP    -  Service Central de la Programmation
SETEC  -  Societé d'Etudes Techniques et Econoriiques
STIPE  -  Societé d'Etudes Trechniques Italiens pouIr ltEtranger
USA1D  - United States Agency for InternationaL Developmert
GCVERNJ4ENT e)F YALPCAACAF;
FISCAL YEAR
Janv,ary 1 - Deceinter 31
.'.-/ A  at ie ta:  of .eoticie    in Novemrber 1,3.



MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......       ......................    i - ii
1.        INTRODUCTION           ....................                    1
2.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR.                                               2
A. Economic Setting .2
B. The Transport System.                                      3
C.   Transport Planning, Policies
and Coordination.                                    5
3.  THE RAILWAY.                                                         6
A. Administration.                                            6
B.   Organization, Management and Staff.                      7
C.   Budgeting, Accounting and Auditing.                      8
D. Property.                                                  9
E.   Manpower, Productivity and Wages .10
F.   Operations ..................................           il
G. Costs and Tariffs .il
H. Traffic .13
4.        T_E INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT .14
A.   The 1973-1975 IPlan.....t Pla.                          14
B.   Project Descriptior. ...........................        14
C.   Project Costs and Financing .....       ..............  16
D.   Project Execution ......       .......................  17
5.        ECONOMIC EVALUATION ................................          17
A.   General ..........      .............................    17
B.   Evaluation of Project Components ....      ..........   18
C.   Conclusion ........      ............................    19
(continued)
This report was prepared by Messrs. P.O. Cheryan (Financial Analyst), F.
Lawson (Economist), E. Ohlund (Engineer), and Miss J. Murphy (Editor).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
6.        FINANCIAL EVALUATION .       .............................  20
A.   Present Position ......     .......................  20
B.   Future Prospects .............................       21
C.   Financing Plan ...............................       23
7.       AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....    .........    25
ANNEXES
1.  Description of Railway Property, December 31, 1972
2.  RNCFM Tariff Structure
3.  Notes on Assumptions Underlying Railway Traffic Forecasts
4.  Description of the Project
5.  RNCFM Requirements for Main Line Diesel Locomotives, Freight
and Passenger Wagons through 1976
6.  Terms of Reference for Railway Management and Accounting Services
7.  Terms of Reference for Transport Planning and Coordination
Advisory Services
8.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
9.  Notes on Economic Evaluation
10.  Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
TABLES
1.  Railway Manpower, Productivity and Wages
2.   Selected Railway Operating Statistics
3.   Railway Average Revenues for Selected Commodities and
Passengers (1971)
4.   Railway Costs and Revenues Per Line (1971)
5.  Railway Commercial Traffic Summary (1961-1972)
6.  Freight and Passenger Traffic 1967-1972 and Forecast 1973-1977
7.  Railwav Commercial Traffic Per Originating Line (1967-1971)
8.  Railway Investment Plan 1973-1975
9.   RNCFM Income Statement (1969-1977)
10.   RNCFM Cash Flow Statement (1969-1977)
q_   RNCFM Pro Forma Balance Sheet (1969-1977)
12.   RNCFM Financial Ratios (1969-1977)
CHARTS
1.  Railway Organization Chart (7708)
2.  Railway Freight Traffic Density by Line 7709 (R)
MAP
Madagascar Transport System (IBRD 10493)



MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The state-owned railway - Reseau National des Chemins de Fer
Malagasy (RNCFM) - plays a central role in Madagascar's economy, being the
only reliable means of surface transportation between many of the island's
economic centers and, most importantly, between its main port at Tamatave and
the capital, Tananarive, some 370 km inland. Due to inadequate and insuf-
ficîent rolling stock, however, the railway has recently been experiencing
congestion and delays, and these have placed a constraint on the country's
economy. Some immediate investments are therefore essential. Its medium
and long-term investment needs are uncertain, however, since its future
role is expected to be somewhat reduced when it begins to face increasing
highway competition.
ii.       The project has been designed as a "holding operation" to assist
RNCFM in replacing necessary assets and expanding capacity, and to determine
the railway's long-term prospects and requirements as well as the needs of
the transport sector as a whole. To this end, the project comprises that
portion of the railway's 1973-75 investment plan for which financing has
-not yet been arranged and technical assistance to the Ministere de
l'Amenagement du Territoire which, among other things, is responsible for
transport planning and coordination. The railway investments are limited
to (a) provision of a minimum of rolling stock, track renewal and track
maintenance equipment to enable the railway to carry projected traffic
through 1976; and (b) services of consultants to improve the railway's
management and operational efficiency.
iii.      The total cost Gf                      .ated at US$8.9 million with
a foreign exchange componen-a  o: >  ç'J       n  cr 67% of total costs.  The
IDA credit of US$6.0 million will finance the foreign cost of imported mate-
rials and equipment including 50 freight wagons, 20 passenger coaches and
materials for track renewal, and the services of consultants. IDA-financed
items will be procured in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines; the terms of
reference of the railway consultants and the transport planning consultants
have been agreed with the Association.
iv.       The economic return from the project was calculated by assuming
that in the face of capacity shortages on the railway, the existing roads
could carry traffic divereted from it, and by comparing alternative rail
and road costs of this traffic over a ten-year period. Even under this
unrealistic assumption, the project was found to be economically justified,
yielding returns of from 20% to 58% on the different components and an over-
all economic return of 35%.



- ii -
v.        Operations of the RNCFM are reasonably efficient but with room for
improvements. Utilization of rolling stock and motive power is good, and
maintenance of railway property is satisfactory. Because the railway enjoys
a quasi-monopoly in the country's most important corridor, tariffs have been
established without due regard to costs and economy, but the railway consultants
will assist the RNCFM in developing a cost-based tariff structure and other
efficiency measures which will strengthen its competitive position when alter-
native transport modes have been developed. Also, the Government has recently
granted RNCFM's management the necessary flexibility and authority to determine
rates, to hire and retire personnel and to modify operations so as to provide
railway services in the most efficient way.
vi.       Freight traffic is the railway's principal source of income, account-
ing for some 75% of revenues. Freight traffic earnings in the years 1969-71
grew at an average annual rate of 10.7%. -The figures for 1972 show a sharp
decline in traffic, largely attributable to the political disturbances that
took place in that year. These disturbances are, however, considered to be
temporary in nature, and the railway's earnings are expected to improve from
1975 onvard at an annual average rate of 6%.
vii.      The annual rate of return on net fixed assets in use was about 2%
in 1969 and 1970 which, after dropping in 1972 and 1973 to about 0.1%, should
recover in 1974 to a level of 2.5%. The railway is considered capable of
maintaining this level of return through 1977, and assurances were obtained
during negotiations that a rate will be maintained of at least 2.5% through
1976 and 3% thereafter. This is considered satisfactory to maintain the
financial stability of RNCFM, particularly in view of possible road competi-
tion in the early 1980's and the diminished role this would imply for the
railway. However, this rate can only be achieved with some increase in
revenues; the Government and the railway have given assurances that, effective
April 1, 1974, tariffs will be increased by 5% until a cost-related tariff
structure can be introduced as a result of studies to be carried out under
the project.
viii.     The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.0 million equiv-
alent to the Government of Madagascar. US$5.2 million equivalent will be
onlent to the RNCFM on terms satisfactory to the Association; i.e., 7-1/4%
interest for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of 3-1/2 years.



MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Madagascar has requested Bank Group assistance
to help finance investments to be made by the state-owned railway - Reseau
National des Chemins de Fer Malagasy (RNCFM). The railway plays a central
role in Madagascar's economy, being the only reliable means of surface trans-
portation between many of the island's economic centers, and most importantly
between the main port at Tamatave and Tananarive, the capital. While the
railway is expected to play a relatively more modest role in the future once
alternative transport modes have been developed, the economy must, over the
next few years at least, rely almost exclusively on it for transport over
its most important routes, namely the Tananarive - Tamatave and Lac Alaotra
lines.. Due to inadequate and insufficient rolling stock, however, the rail-
way has lately been experiencing increasing congestion and delays and these
have placed a considerable constraint on the economy.  The project is design-
ed as an interim measure to enable the railway to serve transport demand
through 1976 and to help determine RNCFM's longer term prospects and re-
quirements.
i.02      The proposed project will be the first lendîng operation of the
Bank Group to the railway and the fifth in the transport sector. It in-
cludes that portion of RNCFM's ongoing 1973-75 investment program for which
financing has not yet been arranged and covers (i) limited track renewal and
extension and renewal of yards and sidings; (îi) renewals and additions of
wagons; (îii) miscellaneous works and equipment; (iv) technical assistance
in railway management, accounting, operations and investment planning; and
* ` +> »e' .        ass-Fsance in transport plann1ng and coordination to the Ministere
ç.; - ~  ~.du Terr-tzY`re 'MAT.  Te totai cost of the project is esti-
..-ae at US$8.9 mîllion.  The foreigz axchange component of US$6.0 million
will be financed by IDA. US$5.2 million of the credit is for railway invest-
ments and will be onlent by the Government to the RNCFM on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association.
1.03      Of the past four transport projects financed by the Bank Group,
three were for highways. Credit 90-MAG (US$10 million) made in 1966 and
Credit 134-MAG/Loan 570-MAG (US$8 million) made in 1968 financed the con-
struction of about 290 km of primary roads, all successfully completed. The
first highway project also included detailed engineering of some road sections
and highway feasibility studies, including the feasibility of constructing an
all-weather road between Tananarive and Tamatave. These studies are expected
to be completed before the end of 1973. The recent third highway project,
financed by Credit 351-MAG/Loan 875-MAG (US$30 million) in 1973 includes
primary road construction as well as the construction of roads specifically
directed toward agricultural development. The fourth Bank Group-financed



-2-
project (Credit 200-MAG, 1970, US$9.6 million) is for (a) expanding the port
of Tamatave, (b) establishing it as a seni-autonomous enterprise, and (c)
providing technical assistance in port management and operations. Works are
proceeding satisfactorily, and are due to be completed in mid 1974; however,
the process of transforming the port into a semi-autonomous body and the
technical assistance side of the project have progressed with difficult
because of unresolved conflicting legislation regarding autonomous enterprises,
social unrest in Madagascar, and unsatisfactory performance of the technical
assistance team. These problems are being overcome. A supplementary credit
of US$1.8 million has recently been approved to meet higher foreign costs due
to recent currency parity changes.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of a IDA appraisal mission
in January/February 1973, consisting of Messrs. P.O. Cheryan (Financial
Analyst), F. Lawson (Economist) and E. Ohlund (Engineer).  The report also
draws on the findings of the Bank's 1972 Economic Mission, and the consultants'
(SETEC, France) report "Etude de Factibifite Routiere a Madagascar" (1972/73).
The report was edited by Miss J. Murphy.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
2.01      Madagascar is situated in the Indian Ocean some 400 km off the
southeast coast of Africa; it has an area of about 592,000 km2, making it
the fourth largest island in the world, about the size of France or Kenya.
It is relatively isolated, both economically and culturally, from neighbor-
ing African countries. The climate is tropical; frequent cyclones and heavy
rainfall, particularly on the east coast, cause severe problems to the economy
and transport. The topography is generally rugged and good materials for road
construction are scarce. The population (7.4 million) is unevenly distributed
with the main concentrations found in the central highlands and on the east
coast.
2.02      Madagascar is still in the early stages of development and its
economy embraces a large and basically non-monetized agricultural sector.
About 60% of agricultural production is for subsistence and is not trans-
ported for any significant distance. Agricultural exports, which account
for aout 85% of Madagascar's foreign exchange earnings, amounted to a little
over 200,0O0 tons in 1971. Improved transportation facilities, in particular
more and better rural roads, are needed to stimulate agricultural production
and to integrate and monetize the economy. Industry has developed fast of
late but still accounts for only 12% of GDP. The country has a wide variety
of minerals but, except for chromite (about 130,000 tons annually) and graphite
(20,000 tons), none are commercially important.



- 3 -
B. The Transport System
2.03      While considerable progress has been achieved over the past decade
in developing Madagascar's transport facilities, particularly the primary
highway network, the country still lacks a comprehensive transport system,
and is especially lacking in secondary and feeder roads. There are several
isolated regions, notably in the north and south, which have to rely solely on
coastal shipping, particularly during the rainy season, as a means of communi-
cation with other parts of the country. The system presently comprises: (i)
about 32,000 km of roads of which about 4,000 km are paved; (ii) two unconnected
railway systems totalling 883 km; (iii) four main ports and twelve secondary
lighterage ports; and (iv) seventeen all-weather airfields of which five can
handle jet aircraft.
Highways
2.04      The paved highway system consists broadly of a main north-south
artery interconnecting Fianarantsoa, Antsirabe, Tananarive and Majunga; an
east-west road linking Moramanga, Tananarive and Tsiroanomandidy; and several
short stretches of paved roads around the main coastal towns. There is still
no reliable road between Tananarive and Tamatave, but a study is underway,
financed under the Bank Group's first highway project, to determine the
feasibility of constructing an all-weather road between these major centers.
Regional capitals are slowly being connected to Tananarive by all-weather
roads. Once the main road to Diego Suarez is completed (much of it with
Bank Group assistance), travel time between Tananarive and the northern tip
of the island will be reduced from as much as four weeks during the rainy
season to about three days. Although generally not paved, the roads south
of Fianarantsoa are reasonably good year-round because the climate is very
dry. Priorities for the future appear to be developing reliable roads in
the eastern region and establishing secondary and feeder roads throughout
~a_ œay s
2.05      RNCFM is a single-track meter-gauge railway comprising 883 route-
km (1,030 track-km) in two unconnected systems. The northern system includes
(i) a 376 km section between the port of Tamatave and Tananarive in the central
highlands 1,250 m above sea level including a 5 km branch north from Tananarive;
(iî) a 158 km section from Tananarive through the highlands south to Antsirabe
(at 1,450 m); and (iii) a 167 km section from Moramanga north to the paddy
fields east of Lake Alaotra, with a 19 km branch lîne to Morarano close to the
chromite mines. The southern system connects Fianarantsoa in the highlands
(at 1,100 m) with the east coast port of Manakara, 163 km away. There is a
gap of about 180 km between the northern and the southern systems. Under
Italian technical assistance, final engineering of a line to connect the two
systems is underway, but the RNCFM has agreed not to proceed with construction
of this line prior to completion of the railway rationalization study to be
carried out under the project (para. 4.06).



- 4 -
2.06      Sections of the railway traverse difficult terrain; some gradients
are very steep (generally as much as 2.5% and exceptionally, on the Manakara
line, 3.5%) and the minimum curve radius is 50 m. Ongoing realignment works,
including a completely new line between Ambila and Brickaville (14 km) being
constructed with financial assistance from the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), will offer some improvement but further
elimination of sharp curves is not economically feasible.
2.07      Virtually all import and export trade shipped through Tamatave
uses the railway which is the only reliable means of surface transportation
between the port and Tananarive; traffic averages about 680,000 tons of freight
and a million passengers a year. The other three lines that complete the
system carry much lighter traffic, but play an equally important role in view
of the virtual absence of reliable alternative modes. The roads that presently
parallel the railway lines are generally of very low standard and therefore
do not provide any significant commercial competition. While studies are
currently underway to investigate the possibility of improving some of these
potentially competitive road sections, it is unlikely that any ensuing projects,
such as a new road between Tananarive and Tamatave (which would cost some
US$45 million), could be completed and competitive before the 1980's. If
this road is constructed, the railway stands to lose a significant amount of
its traffic, but in the meantime will have to continue transporting virtually
all of the increasing import and export trade shipped through Tamatave. De-
tails on the railway's administration and operations are given in Chapter 3.
Ports and Shipping
2.08      Madagascar relies almost exclusively on its ports for foreign trade
and to an important extent for domestic commerce. Because of the scarcity of
land transport, coastal shipping, which amounted to about 650,000 tons in
1972, is expected to continue to play an important role in the transport
system for some time. Inland water transport is limited to the 200 km
Pangalanes Canal, along the east coast between Mahanoro and Tamatave, which
carries about 40,000 tons of agricultural products annually.
2.09      The four principal ports - Tamatave in the East, Majunga in the
West, Diego Suarez in the North, and Tulear in the South - together handle
about 90% of the island's international trade and about 70% of coastal traf-
fic. Tamatave, being expanded with IDA assistance, handles over 75% of the
countryes international trade and about 25% of its coastal traffic; in 1972,
total traffic amounted to about 1.5 million tons (0.9 million of petroleum
products). Majunga, the second largest port and most important for coastal
tratfie. :-ndled about 300,000 tons, including petroleum products, or 13% of
total port traffic. Majunga's present capacity is, however, limited because
of heavy siltation in the bay where the port is situated. A UNDP-financed
study to evaluate improvements to the port was recently completed.
2.10      The 12 secondary ports are lighterage ports except Vohemar, and
only Nossi Be-St. Louis in the northwest and Manakara in the southeast
handle significant traffic volumes. The Government has sought for some time



- 5 -
to rationalize coastal shipping and port operations by concentrating inter-
national trade in the four major ports and confining coastal traffic to the
smaller ones, some of which would eventually be closed down; little progress
has been made to date because of the high cost involved and lack of compre-
hensive planning.
Airports and Aviation
2.11      Madagascar has 59 air-fields, compensating to some extent for the
absence of adequate land transport, at least for passenger traffic. Seventeen
airports are built to all-weather standards, though onlv Tananarive and Majunga
airports can take modern long-distance jets; Diego Suarez, Tamatave and Nossi
Be can handle the smaller Boeing 737 jets. Tananarive is by far the most im-
portant airport in the country (180,000 passengers in 1972).
2.12      The island is poorly and infrequently connected with the outside
world by air transport. This is partly due to the excessive protection given
by the Government to Air France and Air Madagascar, the latter being 40% owned
by the French company. Alitalia is the only other air carrier to have landing
rights on the island, and only for direct flights to and from Europe. Charter
flights are only allowed if Air Madagascar gets a substantial share of the
business. The present policy of protecting the financial interest of Air
France and Air Madagascar does not appear to be in the long run economic in-
terest of the country, particularly for developing international passenger
traffic and therefore tourism.
C. Transport Planning, Policies and Coordination
2.13      Since the 1972 political changes, Madagascar's longer term transport
investments and policies have remained generally undefined, and pluriannual
_est-ment planning has been dropped at least for the tîme being. Trans-
,.  p'-aïuirî. and coordLnation in M-adagascar is the responsibility of the
Serv-..ce Central de la Programmation (SCP) in the MAT which has direct res-
ponsibility for all transport modes except aviation. The highest review is
by the Direction du Plan, which is responsible for coordination among sectors,
although in fact there has been little coordination between SCP and the agencies
responsible for planning in such other sectors as agriculture, tourism and
industry.
2.14      While little competition presently exists between modes, this
situation will change in the future as the transport system is developed,
and complex analyses of the trade-offs between competing modes will be
required before rational investment decisions can be taken. Important ex-
amples are: (i) the construction of the Tananarive-Tamatave road which
would compete with the railway; and (ii) the program to rationalize ports
which would require development of an adequate surface infrastructure.



- 6-
2.15      To date the railway has benefited from a quasi-monopoly in the
country's most important transport corridor (Tananarive-Tamatave) and has
therefore been able to establish tariffs without due regard to costs or
economy.  Tariffs have been determined largely by what the traffic would
bear - which may have been above costs for some services - and by the Gov-
ernment's welfare policy - which may have led to certain rates and fares
being below marginal costs. Under such conditions there has been little
incentive for the railway to reduce costs. In total, this policy has pro-
bably had a high economic cost, although it has not been quantified. There
is, however, a growing realization in the Government that a policy which
fosters protection and creates a dependence on one mode of transport exacts
a price in unnecessary economic costs.
2.16      The Government intends to address itself seriously to the problems
of modal coordination and planning and, in connection with the Bank Group's
third highway project, signed a Memorandum of Understanding to this effect.
Madagascar, however, presently lacks a sufficient number of qualified trans-
port planning experts to assess and evaluate the complex technical and econo-
mic issues required for closer planning and investment coordination, and the
MAT, in particular, is devoid of such expertise. The proposed project there-
fore includes the services of five to six transport experts for a period of
two years to assist in transport planning and coordination (para. 4.07).
2.17      The road transport industry in Madagascar is free from regulation
except for a vehicle weight restriction (maximum 5 tons) on the existing
Tananarive-Tamatave road due to its poor condition. The Government had been
considering instituting a set of restrictive regulations on the trucking in-
dustry such as entry and route licensing, tariff controls, etc., but the Bank
Group pointed out that such regulation tends to destroy one of the main fea-
tures of the industry; that is, its flexibility in terms of capacity, time,
place and equipment, in response to changing transport demand. The Govern-
ment agreed under the third highway project to have the problens affecting
the road transport industry and the proposed regulatory measures studied by
consultants.
3. THE RAILWAY
A. Admainistration
3.01      Until 1965, RNCFM operated as a "Regie Autonome" under the authority
of the old Ministry of Transport with a substantial degree of autonomy. In
January 1965 1/ RNCFM became a state enterprise directly attached to the
Ministry of Public Works and Communications and run as an ordinary government
1/   Decree No. 65001



- 7 -
department, subject to all civil service rules and financial and budgetary
procedures. Following the political changes in May 1972, the number of
ministries was reduced and the RNCFM was placed under the responsibility of
the new MAT. A decree, enacted in July 1972 1/, specifically abrogated the
whole of the original RNCFM decree; consequently, RNCFM operated in a legal
vacuum, without any statutes or by-laws on its structure and organization,
though those previously in effect were followed.
3.02      In the Memorandum of Understanding signed in connection with the
Bank Group's third highway project, the Government stated its intention, among
other things, to grant RNCFM's management sufficient flexibility and authority
(i) to determine rates so that they can reflect the cost of services, (ii) to
hire and retire personnel, and (iii) to modify operations so as to provide
railway services in the most efficient way.
3.03      These matters were discussed at length with the Government and
RNCFM during credit negotiations, and a decree 2/ has recently been enacted
granting RNCFM sufficient authority and flexibility in management, personnel
and financial matters. Administrative, technical and financial management
of RNCFM is entrusted to a Director General, responsible to a Board of
Directors headed by the Secretary General of the MAT.
B. Organization, Management and Staff
3.04      RNCFMI is presently presided over by a Director who reports to the
Secretary General of MAT through the Ministry's Director General. The or-
ganization of the railway is shown in Chart 1. Under the Director there are
six departments: Administration; Planning; Operation; Mechanical Engineering;
Civil Engineering; and Medico-Social Services, each headed by a chief. The
heads of three other units - Budget Control, Accounting, and Computer Center
- r  Io the. bIrector.  There is noc regional breakdown administratively;
operatiorl, mechanica: engineer-ng and civil engineering departments
operate local units.
3.05      Although the departmental functions are sufficiently well delineated,
they lack coordination, particularly on planning matters. A properly organized
planning and management information system is also lacking. Management and
accounting consultants will be employed under the project (para. 4.06) to
overcome these weaknesses and the shortcomings in accounting matters mentioned
below (para. 3.08); and to train personnel.
3.06      In July 1973, RNCFM's staff numbered about 4,900.  They are divided
into three categories: (î) about 50% enjoy the position of "statutaires," i.e.
they have regular civil servant status; (ii) about 30% are "conventionnes"
1/   Decree No. 72247
2/   Decree No. 73070



- 8 -
subject to the general working rules of the country based on contractual
relationships; and (iii) the remainder are temporary workers. Included in
the staff are 13 expatriates provided under the French technical assistance
scheme, most of whom do not participate actively in the management process,
although they do assist in the training of RNCFM staff, particularly in the
technical areas.  The railway is not benefiting fully from this technical
assistance program, its attitude being in general one of tolerance, rather
than of actively seeking assistance or advice. The number of expatriates
under this program is being reduced by about four a year.
C. Budgetîng, Accounting and Auditing
3.07      RNCFM's annual budget is part of the General Budget of the Govern-
ment and follows the latter's pattern of justification and approval. Decree
No. 65001 provided for funding of surpluses, depreciation of fixed assets,
and the maintenance of commercial accounts in accordance with the General
Accounting Plan adopted by the Government, which is based on the French
accounting system. Although Decree No. 65001 was subsequently abrogated,
the railway's budgeting and accounting practices have remained basically
unchanged.
3.08      RNCFM's accounting and reporting activities are carried out by
three separate groups:
(1)  the Accounting Division which performs the bookkeeping for
receipts and expenditures, balance sheet and profit and loss
accounts:
(ii)  the Planning Department which keeps the administrative accounts,
intended as the basis for cost information; and
(iii)  the Computer Center with an IBM 360/30 which processes the
data arising from the above two accounting activities.
The work of these three groups is insufficiently coordinated; for instance
the first two prepare independent documentation and originate differing
basic input data. As a result, incongruous and conflicting accounting and
statistical reports are produced. The Accounting Division, besides being
tardy in bookkeeping, uses inconsistent accounting practices from year to
year in inventory pricing, movements of reserves, valuation of fixed assets,
etc. 'boere is need to improve the quality and performance of accounting
staff. It is essential that the entire accounting situation be reviewed,
local personnel trained and a sound coordinated system introduced without
delay. The new decree, as well as the provision of management and accounting
consultants in the project, is aimed at overcoming these deficiencies.
3.09      Audit of the accounts of RNCFM, carried out by the State Inspector,
is basically a routine verification audit in accordance with Governmental



- 9 -
procedures. In the context of establishing RNCFM as a semi-autonomous organ-
ization with considerable financial flexibility, the appointment of independ-
ent auditors familiar with modern commercial and management accounting princi-
ples and practices is required. During negotiations, the Government and
RNCFM agreed that independent auditors acceptable to the Association will be
employed to audit RNCFM accounts.
D. Property
Track
3.10      Annex 1 contains a brief description of track and structures.  The
main line Tamatave-Tananarive, built between 1901-1913, is equipped with 30
kg/m rail laid in 1957-1958.  The steep grades and sharp curves on this section
have accelerated wear, particularly between Lohariandava and Andasibe where
renewal of rails and replacement of sleepers is urgently needed. This will
be done under the project.  With the agreement of the Association, RNCFM is
calling for bids for rails so that renewal can start early in 1974. The Lac
Alaotra line has 25 kg/m rails laid in 1923, but, with few curves, moderate
gradients, and the relatîvely light traffic, is still in acceptable condition.
Track and structure are generally well maintained.
3.11      The only other major work in progress is realignment of the Ambila-
Brickaville section. These works, originally estimated to cost US$4.1 million
and partly financed by a US$3.0 million credit from USAID, consist of realigning
about 14 km of line including a new concrete bridge over the Pangelanes Canal
and several other structures. The works have run into considerably difficulties
because of soil problems and cyclone damage. Up to January 1973, works costing
about US$5.9 million had been completed and the remaining works were prelim-
inarily estimated at about US$2.85 million. USAID is prepared to provide an
additional credit of US$3.0 million.
The signalling sysceom is prIMitIve.  There is no interlocking
beLween stations and line clearance is based on ordinary telephone messages
taken down in long hand and passed over by engine drivers.
Motive Power and Rolling Stock
3.13      Motive power and rolling stock as of December 31, 1972, are shown
in Annex 1 and summarized below.
Number of Units
Northern System   Southern System          Total
Diesel Locomotives:
Line locomotives                29                  2                  31
Shunters                        21                  -                  21
Railcars                             13                  2
Passenger Coaches                    75                  9                  94
Freight Cars                        902                 78                 980



- 10 -
3.14      The railway has been fully dieselized since 1966.  The locomotives
are in fairly good condition but 14 of the line locomotives are more than 20
years old. In 1971, the railway purchased one locomotive type BBBB, 3,600 hp
under a CCCE 1/ loan/suppliers' credit; it has not performed satisfactorily
and has not been formally accepted by the railway.
3.15      The wagon fleet is relatively modern, made up almost entirely of
bogie wagons. A few old wagons, however, are unserviceable since spare parts
can neither be obtained nor manufactured. RNCFI will soon retire 26 forty-
three year old wooden passenger coaches, and 59 covered and 65 platform
wagons, on average more than fifty years old.  Many of these will be replaced
by wagons purchased under the above-mentioned CCCE financing package and the
project covers additional requirements (para. 4.05).
Other Properties
3.16      There are no marshalling yards apart from two small formation yards
in Tamatave and Tananarive. The installations for maintenance and repair
of motive power and rolling stock include one main workshop in Tananarive and
running sheds in Moramanga, Managareza (Tamatave) and Fianarantsoa. The
nuumber of staff housing units owned by the railway is about 2,500. RNCFM's
buildings, stations and workshops are in good condition and well maintained.
Since 1968, the railway has operated a small industry, "Complexe Industriel
du Bois d'Andasibe (CIBA)," mainly for manufacturing and treating timber
sleepers, with exploitation rights over 3,000 hectares of forest.
E. Manpàwer, Productivity and Wages
3.17      Details of RNCFM's labor force, productivity and labor costs 1967-
1972 are shown in Table 1. During this period the average number of staff
increased by 16% or somewhat less than rail traffic. The traffic increased
from 1967 to 1972 (freight by 73%, passengers by 16%) but dropped in 1972
(freight by 16%, passengers by 11%). This affected productivity which
improved from 76,000 traffic units (freight ton-km plus passenger-km) per
employee in 1967 to about 97,000 in 1971 but again decreased to about 84,000
in 1972.  The total labor cost has increased less than the number of employees.
Wages and salaries are generally low particularly for more qualified personnel.
They have remained unaltered since 1961 and consequently have fallen, in real
terms, by at least 50% over the last decade. This is causing severe dif-
fîiculiies in recruiting qualified engineers and other technical personnel.
The prof.;m is expected to be partly overcome now that the railway has some
degree of autonomy in personnel matters. The railway consultants to be
provided under the project will, inter alia, make recommendations on the
railway's salary structure. During negotiations, the Government and RNCFM
I/   Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique.



- il -
agreed that upon receipt of the consultants' recommendations, the Association
will be consulted and such action taken as is mutually agreed.
F. Operations
3.18      Table 2 presents a summary of railway operating statistics over the
period 1967-1972; these show improving efficiency in most of the important
indices up to 1971, but declining efficiency in 1972. Engine-km per engine-day
for locomotives have remained at a level which, in comparison with many other
railways, is low but ils acceptable in view of the low speed necessitated by
the difficult track geometry. Derailments have increased to a rather high
level during the period, partly due to deteriorating track quality.
3.19      The punctuality of trains is unsatisfactory with only about 60% of
all passenger trains and about 40% of all freight trains arriving at the
terminal station 15 minutes or less delayed. Many factors (timetables,
distances between crossing loops, communications) contribute to this problem
which is to be investigated by the management consultants under the project
(para. 4.06).
3.20      The arrangements for wagon load control and adjustment at Tamatave
Port are not satisfactory and cause considerable delays. A load adjustment
hall, now being built, will be in use in 1974 which will reduce these delays
considerably.
3.21      Import goods arriving at Tananarive in bond are transferred from
the railway wagons to goods sheds belonging to the Chamber of Commerce, where
they can be stored up to 15 days free and thereafter at very low rates. This
has caused congestion in the sheds and delays in unloading. Moreover, while
the railway is responsible for the goods in the sheds, it cannot supervise
the handling and customs clearance because working hours in the sheds do not
_o.epona with the railway's working hours.  The railway consultants will
:ook into this problem and recommend measures to improve coordination between
the railway, Customs, and the Chamber of Commerce such as an effective system
of storage charges and similar working hours. During negotiations, the Govern-
ment and RNCFM agreed that, upon receipt of the consultants' recommendations
and after consultation with the Association, it will take the necessary
measures to correct the situation.
G. Costs and Tariffs
3.22      Details of RNCFM's rates and fares are given in Annex 2.  The
present tariff schedule was instituted in 1964 and very few changes have been
incorporated since then. In the past, changes have had to be approved by the
MAT which involved a cumbersome procedure, but enactment of the decree grant-
ing RNCFM autonomy in these matters has introduced substantial flexibility.



- 12 -
3.23      Rates have been based on commodity value rather than the cost of
individual services or lines and do not taper off according to distance.
For the generally high-value import traffic, rates are considerably higher
than for local or export traffic, particularly agricultural and commercial
commodities. About 80% of freight traffic is carried according to the
published tariff and the balance at negotiated rates.  Tariff rates range
between FMG 15.0 (USe 6.5) per ton-km for less than a carload of general
freight to FMG 3.0 (USe 1.3) for chromite traffic. Average revenues have
remained more or less stable over the years at around FMG 8.1 (U$t 3.5) per
ton-km. Because minimum sizes of shipments for carloads are set too low,
the users do not always make full use of the wagons and utilization could
be improved by adjusting tariff rates. Due to modernization, improved opera-
tions and the considerable growth in traffic, the railway's average cost per
unit of traffic dropped significantly up to 1971. Average total costs de-
clined from FMG 8.6 (USe 3.8) per ton-km in 1968 to FMG 6.5 (USé 2.8) per
ton-km in 1971.
3.24      The above costs are averages for the system; costs for individual
lines are in some cases considerably higher such as for the very low density
Fianarantsoa-Manakara line. Except for the Tananarive-Tamatave line, average
revenues (Table 3) do not cover fully distributed costs although all lines
appear to cover marginal costs (Table 4). There appears to be room for some
tariff increases and adjustments, for instance for chromite; however, other
rationalization measures are also required. These tariff questions are to
be investigated by the consultants.
3.25      Passenger fares are FMG 5.90 (USé 2.6) per km for first class and
FMG 2.95 (USé 1.3) for second class; however, because preferential fares are
imposed on social grounds by the Government for military personnel, commuters,
large families, etc., and reductions are self-imposed on the Tananarive-
Antsirabe line because of strong bus competition, average revenue per passen-
ger-km is only FMG 2.5 (USé 1.1). Revenues fall short of covering full costs
of FMG 3.8 (USé 1.7) per passenger-km but cover estimated marginal costs of
FMG 1.6 (USé 0.7) including depreciation of rolling stock. During negotiations,
the Government agreed (among the measures required to improve the railway's
financial position) to reimburse RNCFM the amounts foregone on account of con-
cessionary fares from 1974.
3.26      The computerized traffic costing system is weak in many ways.  The
rationale underlying the allocation of costs to different categories of traffic
is not clear and the costs of individual types of traffic are not known. The
consultants who will assist the railway management under the project will
review a.- develop an appropriate cost accounting framework, traffic costing
data and a tariff system based on the cost of different services.



- 13 -
H. Traff ic
3.27      Traffic statistics for the years 1967 to 1972 and forecast through
1977 are given in Tables 5 and 6. The forecasts are based on: (i) the long-
term inter-zonal commodity flow analysis prepared by the Consultants SETEC 1/
using a macroeconomic model; (ii) the railway's own forecasts; and (iii) dis-
cussions between users and IDA staff. The assumptions made are given in
Annex 3.
Freight Traffic
3.28      Freight traffîc is the railway's principal business accounting for
about 75% of revenues. Total commercial tonnage in 1971 amounted to 888,000
tons of which 30% were imports, 17% exports, and the remaînder local traffic.
The average length of haul was 335 km. Six commodity groups`(petroleum pro-
ducts, chromite, charcoal and firewood, rice, cement, and empty bottles and
containers) account for about two-thirds of total tonnage and ton-km (Table
6). Traffic density on different routes varies substantially: Tananarive-
Tamatave is by far the most important with up to 680,000 tons annually, fol-
lowed by the Lac Alaotra line with 240,000 tons (chromite), the Antsirabe
line with about 100,000 tons and the southern line with 44,000 tons (see Chart
2).  Traffic growth has been brisk in the past five years.  Between 1967 and
1971 ton-km increased on average by about 15% a year and tons carried, by
nearly 12% (Table 6). These increases are partly attributable to chromite
traffic starting in 1969. Excluding chromite and petroleum products, growth
between 1965-1971 averaged 9.6% per annum in terms of ton-km. Figures for
1972 show a sharp decline in traffie, largely attributable to the political
events that took place during the year, including the slowdown and eventual
closure of the port of Tamatave during the last days of the year. Due to
world market conditions, chromite exports also fell considerably though
future prospects are encouraging. Traffic generally is expected to pick up
in 1973 and, on the basis of recent traffic figures provided by RNCFM, an
average growth of 5% p.a. in terms of ton-km has been estimated for the
period 1971-1977.
Passenger Traffic
3.29      Passenger traffie in 1971 amounted to about 2.6 million passengers
and 200 million passenger-km, as compared to 2.3 million and 173 million
respectively in 1967, an average yearly increase of 4%. The Tananarive-
Tamatave line carrîes about half of total passenger traffic over an average
distance of 93 km. Two classes of service are offered but first-class ac-
counts for only about 6% of the total. Traffic has been growing on all lines
except the Tananarive-Antsirabe line whieh is subject to bus competition
(Table 7).  Traffie is subject to considerable seasonal fluctuations; from
July to October, because of the harvest and school holidays, passenger traffic
_/   Etude de Factibilite Routiere a Madagascar, Volume 2.2 (1972).



- 14 -
is nearly double the yearly average, and service is then provided by over-
loading. Growth has conservatively been estimated at 3% per annum between
1973 and 1977, that is, slightly more than the average population increase
of 2.6% but less than recent experience.
4. THE TNVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A. The 1973-1975 Investment Plan
01       Proposals for a major modernization program for the RNCFM have
been under discussion for some time. In 1971, a Bank Group mission identi-
fied a possible project consisting of the 1972-74 portion of RNCFM's proposed
1972-76 investment plan, which called for a total investment of about US$16
million. The plan was subsequently changed several times and the version
presented at the time of appraisal in February 1973 covered the period 1973-77,
total investments having been increased to about US$43 million equivalent.
Many of the investment proposals, which included the construction of new
lines and major acquisitions of rolling stock, were not, however, accompanied
by sufficient technical and economic data and, given the uncertainties of the
role to be played by the railways in the future (para. 2.07), were considered
premature. The railway agreed that the time span and composition of the
investment plan should be limited to immediate needs for the period 1973-75
and that the major investments originally envisaged should be deferred
until the results of a railway modernization and rationalization study in-
cluded in the project are available.
4.02      The redefined investment plan for 1973-75, shown in detail in
Table 8, includes continuation of the ongoing realignment of the Ambila-
Brickaville section of the main line financed by USAID; provision of seven
locomotives financed by CCCE and a minimum of rolling stock, track renewal
and track maintenance equipment to enable the railway to carry projected
traffic through 1976; and services of consultants to improve the railway's
management and operational efficiency. The total cost of the three-year
plan is estimated at FMG 3.7 billion (US$17.2 million). During negotia-
tions, the Government and RNCFM agreed that investments will be limited
to those included in the plan except for small items not exceeding FMG 40
million, and in the aggregate no more than FMG 100 million per annum, un-
less agreed otherwise with IDA.
B. Project Description
4.03      The project comprises that portion of the railway's 1973-75 in-
vestment plan for which financing has not yet been committed plus technical
assistance to the MAT on transport planning and coordination. The major



- 15 -
project components, indicated briefly in the following paragraphs, are
described in some detail in Annex 4.
RNCFM Investments
4.04      Works.  Track renewal under the project will consist primarily of
renewal of rails and sleepers on the Lohariandava-Andasibe section (62 km)
of the main line (para. 3.10). Other works consist of a new crossing station,
extension of yards, sidings and workshops, and construction of a few buildings,
primarily staff quarters.
4.05      Materials.  An analysis of locomotives and rolling stock required
to carry freight traffic through 1976 (Annex 5) indicates that no locomotives
besides those being financed by CCCE are required, though 50 more freight
wagons and 20 more passenger coaches are needed; these will be purchased
under the project. Track materîals included in the project are for the track
renewal mentioned above and comprise 130 km of 36 kg/m rails, 16,000 steel
sleepers and 20,000 m3 of ballast.
4.06      Consulting Services.  Consultants will be engaged under the project
to render technical assistance to RNCFM. The first phase of these serv-
ices include technical assistance for improving LNCFM's management, opera-
tions, financial and accounting policies and procedures, recommending appro-
priate adjustment of its tariff structure and levels, and assessing manpower
training requirements; the second phase, based on data gathered under the
first phase, will comprise identifying RNCFM's investment needs, rationaliz-
ing its services, refining its commercial policy and tariff structure and
levels, and training staff. Terms of reference covering the first phase
of the consultants' work and an outline of work under the second phase,
given in Annex 6, have been agreed by the Government, RNCFM and IDA and four
consultant firms have been invited to submit proposals.  The allocation for
studies is for miscellaneous studies to be undertaken by the railway.
iMAT Technical Assistance
4.07      Five or six experts to be drawn from a consulting firm will be
provided under the project to render technical assistance to the MAT in
transport planning and coordination and train Malagasy nationals in this
work. Specifically they will assist the Ministry to plan, review and coordin-
ate transport studies; formulate transport pricing and coordination policies;
prepare sectoral investment plans; and undertake specific studies that may
be identified. During negotiations, agreement in principle was reached with
the Government on the consultants' terms of reference (Annex 7) and on the
timing of their services.



- 16 -
C. Project Costs and Financing
4.08      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$8.9 million with
a foreign exchange component of US$6.0 million or 67% of total costs.  Project
costs are summarized as follows:
FMG million----   ---US$ million---             %
Local  Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  Foreign
A. RNCFM Investments (1974-75)
Works
1. Track renewal               130        0    130    0.61      0    0.61       0
2. Other                       199        0    199    0.93      0    0.93       0
Materials
3. Freight wagons                8      187    195    0.04   0.87   0.91    96%
4. Passenger wagons              4      260    264    0.02   1.21   1.23    98%
5. Track materials              40      356    396    0.19   1.65   1.84    90%
6. Miscellaneous
equipment                 72      64    136    0.33   0.30   0.63    48%
Consu1ting Services
7. Technical assistance in
management and
accounting                35     140    175    0.16   0.65   0.81    80%
8. Miscellaneous studies        10        0     10    0.05      O    0.05       0
Contingencies
Physical: 10% on A2          20        0     20    0.09      O    0.09
Price:  7% p.a.              55      111    166    0.25   0.52   0.77
Total RNCFM          573   1,118  1,691    2.67   5.20   7.87    66%
B. MAT Technical Assistance
About 160 man-months         38      150    188    0.18   0.70   0.88    80%
Contingencies: 7% p.a.        4       17     21    0.02   0.08   0.10
Total MAT             42      167    209    0.20   0.78   0.98    80%
5=        _      = _- __         _     _
TOTAL PROJECT COST          615   1,285  1,900    2.87   5.98   8.85    67%
Rounded totals                               2.90   6.00   8.90
4.09      Cost estimates are based on 1973 prices.  Estimates of the foreign
exchange component of the project are based on recent quotations obtained
under international competitive bidding.  A physical contingency of 10% is
included for "other works" which is the only item on which quantities have



- 17 -
had to be estimated. A contingency allowance of about 10% of total costs
is included to cover price increases of 7% per annum.
4.10      The IDA credit of US$6.0 million will finance the foreign costs of
the project. RNCFM will finance the local costs of the railway components
(about US$2.7 million), and the Government will finance the local cost of
technical assistance to the MAT (US$200,000 equivalent).
4.11      The IDA credit will be made to the Government which will onlend
US$5.2 million to the railway under normal Bank terms (para. 6.15). Dis-
bursements from the credit will be made on the basis of CIF cost (Tamatave)
of imported equipment and materials, and the foreign exchange coest of con-
sultants. A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Annex 8.
D. Project Execution
4.12      The MAT will have overall responsibility for execution of the
project, coordinating with RNCFM for railway investments. RNCFM, with
technical assistance to be provided, is competent to carrv out al! parts
of the project with which it is concerned. All equipment and materials to
be financed by the credit, including rails (para. 3.10), will be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guide-
lines.
4.13      Consultants acceptable to the Association will be employed to give
technical assistance to the railway in accounting and management, to study
the railway's long term investment requirements, and to assist the MAT in
transport planning and coordination. Since an early start of the railway
consultants' services is desirable, it is proposed that they be retained as
soon as possible and during negotiations, it was agreed that, if necessary,
their services should be financed retroactively. A valid contract for these
services will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      In view of the almost exclusive dependence of Madagascar on the
railway for transport between its capital and main port, the lack of effec-
tive rail capacity experienced in recent years has placed a considerable
strain on the economy. Road transport will eventuallv offer an alternative
for some of the traffic now dependent on the railway, but until the 1980's,
at least, the railway will have to transport virtually all import and export
traffic shipped through Tamatave because of the physical impossibility of
engineering and constructing a road before that date. The country cannot
accept a capacity shortage in the meantime without grave economic repercus-
sions.



- 18 -
5.02      The project has been designed to provide sufficient railway
capacity for traffic levels through 1976, by which time the results of the
railway modernization and rationalization studv will have determined both
the additional short-term investments needed until viable road alternatives
exist and also the longer term investments requirement of the railway.
5.03      The economic return for the project was calculated on the quite
unrealistic assumption that the existing roads could carry traffic diverted
from the railway and by comparing alternative rail and road costs of the
diverted traffîc over a ten-year period.  Even under these circumstances,
the project was found to be economically sound. As a minimum measure of
the project benefits, the proposed investments were also compared to the
cost savings and/or additional net income accruing to the railway through
1983 with no allowance for residual value of the assets; this procedure is
equivalent to making the equally unlikely assumption that road competition
would divert all railway traffic by that time, which in fact would not happen.
When the road is built, the railway will undoubtedly lose a substantial amount
of its traffie over a period of time, but it is clear that from an economic
and social standpoint the principal services of the railway will continue to
operate for many years thereafter despite road competition.  Details of traffic
projections and assumptions used in the economie analyses are given in Annex 9.
A summary of the analysis for individual project components is given below.
B. Evaluation of Project Components
Track Renewal
5.04      Track relaying and related works on the 62 km section of the main
line between Lohariandava and Andasibe is of high priority. This section
has the highest traffic density in the system and, because of poor track
conditions, presently accounts for about 80% of all derailments on the line.
The terrain and technical characteristies are difficult, with grades in
excess of 2% and many curves with 50 m radiî. The rails are over 15 years
old and considerably worn, ballasting is inadequate, and the number of
sleepers is insufficient. Speed restrictions are imposed for safety rea-
sons. If the track is not rehabilitated, the capacity of the line could
rapidly be reduced to zero. At best, the discontinuation of rail service
would result in diversion of rail traffic to road transport at an enormous
economic cost to the nation, since the present roads are in very poor condi-
tion.  Even if the roads could handle the diverted traffic, the increase in
operating costs alone compared with rail would exceed the renewal investment.
Once a reliable road is built between Tananarive and Tamatave, preliminary
estimates prepared by consultants 1/ indicate that not more than 20% (about
130,000 tons) of the railway's traffic would be diverted to it.
1/   SETEC (France) - Etude de Factibilite Routiere, Note de Travail No. 1
(1973).



- 19 -
5.05      The benefits accruing from the track renewal program are:  (i)
reduction of track maintenance costs both for the main line and marshalling
yards (where part of the second-hand rail from the relaid sections will be
used), and (ii) reduced derailment costs including a substantial element
due to line blockages, and delays to other train movements. The rehabilita-
tion program is economically justified with an overall economic return over
the ten-year period of at least 20%.
Freight Wagons
5.06      The 50 freight wagons to be purchased under the project are needed
to meet the projected traffic increase through 1976, whereas those already
procured (under the CCCE arrangement) are replacing unserviceable wagons cur-
rently being scrapped. Without the additional capacity the railway would have
to reject as much as 23 million ton-km of freight a year by 1976. If one
assumes that the existing Tananarive-Tamatave road could handle this traffic, which
in fact is unlikely, the operating cost savings in favor of the railway on the
basis of fully distributed costs would exceed FMG 156 million in one year.
The economic return on this item, taking into account only that part of
benefits measured by transport cost savings to the economy over a 10 year
period, is 58%.
Passenger Coaches
5.07      The 20 new passenger coaches will replace twenty-six 43-year-old
coachles in very poor condition and currently being scrapped, and will also
cater for the increased traffic, projected conservatively at 3% per annum.
In the absence of these coaches, the railwav would have to forego carrying
over 50 million passenger-km by 1976. As demonstrated in Annex 9, the addi-
tional cost of transporting this traffie by road would amount to about FMG
92 million in 1976. The economic return on this component is estimated at
about 40%.
Other
5.08      The benefits attributable to other items to be procured under the
project (miscellaneous works and materials, housing for staff, etc.), ac-
counting for about 21% of the total, cannot be accurately singled out or
quantified, but based on good technical criteria these investments are judged
to be sound. The technical assistance to be provided is also expected to con-
tribute significant, though unquantifiable, benefits by putting the planning
of investments in the transport sector on a firm economie base and thereby
assisting Madagascar in the sound allocation of scarce resources.
C. Conclusion
5.09      The proposed investment will provide a modest but essential increase
in RNCFM's capacity, allow it to meet short term traffic requirements (1976),
and contribute to improving its overall operating efficiency; the investments
are necessary in spite of the longer term development of road competition and



- 20 -
are vell justified even assuming that the life of the new assets will be
limited by likely traffic diversions to road in the fairly near future. The
overall economic return on the investments for which benefits can be quantified
is very favorable, amounting to 35% over the period 1974-1983.
6. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Present Position
6.01      Despite the deficiencies in RNCFM's accounting practices (para.
3.08), the financial data for the years 1969 through 1971 relating to the
railway's operations offer an acceptable basis for the financial evaluation
(Tables 9-12). Revenue earnings have been satisfactory, increasing by 10%
between 1969 and 1970 and by 7% in the following year. Operating expenses
as calculated by the railway have increased, chiefly as a result of higher
inventory charges as well as inconsistent inventory accounting practices.
For example, consumption of materials is obtained by deducting closing stock
from opening stock plus purchases; but for several years only partial physical
inventories were taken, which puts the value of opening and closing stock in
doubt. The figures are also based on standard prices and are not reconciled
with actual costs. The railway is presently correcting both these deficiencies.
6.02      In 1971 the railway revalued its fixed assets, bringing the original
values into line with estimated current values, which resulted in a doubling
of book values. These were then depreciated from the original dates of acquisi-
tion. Previously depreciation dated back only from 1969. As a result, the
net book values (excluding construction in progress) were reduced from FMG
15,846 million in 1970 to FMG 13,690 million in 1971. Annual depreciation
increased from FMG 391 million in 1970 to a more realistic level of FMG 553
million in 1971 after revaluation.
6.03      During these years the railway financed from its own internally
generated funds about 70% of the additions to its fixed assets. Borrowings
consisted of the long-term loan from USAID for realigning the Ambila-
Brickaville section, and short-term loans from the Government to finance
sundry equipment purchases. The original investment in the railway by the
Government is treated as equity on which there are no payments in the form
of a charge or dividend.
6.04      Owing to the political disturbances and the ensuing disruptions in
1972, the railway's traffic suffered a sharp downturn. Revenues dropped by
about 14% from 1971 (to the 1969 level), while savings in operating expenses
were only about 6%.  After taking into account non-operating items such as
interest. the railway is expected to sustain a loss of about FMG 36 million.
Although the disturbances were temporary in nature, their effect on the rail-
way's traffic was of a longer duration, and the railway's financial outlook
for 1973 has been dismal. Present estimates are that full recovery will not



- 21 -
be before 1975, unless urgent measures are taken to improve the railway's
finances (para. 6.09).
6,05      RNCFM's operating results for the years 1969 through 1973 are
summarized below:
----------------------------FMG million---------------------------
Interest and
Net       Other Non-
Operating  Operating  Operating    Operating        Net    Operating
Year       Revenues  Expenses    Income           Items     Income      Ratio
1969        2,646       2,216        430            184       246        .84
1970        2,898       2,666        232             59       173        .92
1971        3,093       2,803        290             65        225       .91
1972        2,666       2,647         19             55        (36)      .99
1973        2,683       2,675          8            106        (98)     1.00
6.06      RNCFM should establish, and operate within, a framework of sound
overall financial objectives. Specifically, the Governnent and RNCFM should
take all steps within their powers to ensure that:
(i)  RNCFM's tariff structure and levels are established in
accordance with appropriate economic and commercial
principles for railway operations;
(ii)  such tariff structure and levels cover the economic cost
of individual services and the individual carriage of
goods but, taken as a whole, such tariffs should (a)
provide a contribution towards covering the full costs
of services and (b) internally generate such funds as
shall be sufficient to service RNCFM's debt, provide
adequate working capital, and make a reasonable contri-
bution toward investment needs including replacements.
During negotiations, the Governnent and RNCFM agreed that the above specific
objectives will be established for RNCFM and that these objectives will form
the basis for the decisions they will take in light of the consultants' re-
commendations and the means of their implementation, particularly as regards
tariff structure and levels, and the appropriate accounting system.
B. Future Prospects
6.07      Financial projections have been made through 1977.  It is not
possible to make any meaningful forecast of the railway's financial position
in the longer term, in view of the uncertainties which currently surround
planning and investments in the transport sector as a whole and particularly
with regard to future road competion. The railway is, however, expected to
continue to operate as a viable entity. The projections were developed by



- 22 -
. ip and RNCFM staff on the basis of available information and on
buiae broad assumptions, particularly regarding the future development of
operating revenues and costs (see below).  Details of the assumptions are
-f"nŽx 10.
Ü.08      In making financial projections to 1977, likely investment require-
ments for 1976 and 1977, based on realistic assumptions of the railwayes needs
for routine and recurrent additions or replacements, amount to FMG 600 million
each year. Operating expenses (excluding depreciation and amortization), es-
tïated by type of expense, include reasonable allowances for cost increases
at an annual average of 6% (taking into account price increases as well as
productivity improvement and cost reductions resulting from the project).
As mentioned in para. 3.17, the employee compensation practices of the rail-
way are unsatisfactory: wages have not kept pace with the cost of living
which has been increasing at about 4% annually. With the granting of autonomy
to RNCFM, employee compensation is expected to be put on a more realistie
level, and an immediate increase of 10% is assumed in 1974 with annual in-
creases of 5% thereafter to keep in step with increases in the cost of
living. Depreciation of fixed assets in operation is calculated on a
straightline basis over the useful lives of the assets. This treatment has
also been applied to new assets acquired under the project which amount to
only about 5% of existing assets excluding land. The useful lives of these
assets are expected to last beyond the 1980's since the railway is expected
to continue as a major carrier of bulk goods even with the development of
alternate modes. The cost of the studies (treated as deferred charges),
however, would be written off over eight years beginning 1975.
6.09      Projected income statements through 1977 are shown in Table 9.
Increases in operating revenues have been projected on the basis of expected
traffic growth in terms of ton-kilometers and passenger-kilometers. For
example, freight revenue, after recovering the 1971 level by 1975, shows
an annual increase of about 6% from 1975 onwards. The projections indicate
that if the railway were to maintain the tarif f s at the existing level (es-
tablished in 1964 with few changes since then), it would find it difficult
to finance the additional operating expenses resulting from increases in
personnel costs and also provide for at least part of the financing of its
longer term investment requirements. This difficulty will be overcome once
tariffs are adjusted to reflect the costs of different services following
the consultants' study under the project (para. 3.26). Until then, a modest
increase in revenues is required to cover the projected increase in costs.
The railway's financial projections were reviewed during negotiations and
agreement was reached on interim measures to be taken, including the upward
adjustment of tariffs by 5% by April 1, 1974.  Effective 1974, the Govern-
ment would also reimburse RNCFM for amounts foregone on account of conces-
sionary passenger fares, totalling about FMG 100 million a year. In addi-
tion RNCFM is stepping up its lumber production (mentioned in para. 3.16)
to include the output for export of impregnated poles (electricity trans-
mission and telephone lines). This activity is expected to produce additional
net revenues ranging from FMG 60 million in 1974 to FMG 100 million in 1977.
In view of the foregoing factors, the railway's financial prospects show
promise of significant improvement from 1974 onwards.  The Goverument and



- 23 -
RNCFM have agreed that they will, by March 31, 1975, in consultation with the
Association and taking account of the findings of the consultants, make ap-
propriate changes in tariff structure and levels to achieve the objectives
set out in para. 6.06 above. Projections of operating revenues embodied in
this report, however, have not taken such changes into account.
6.10      Estimated operating results for the years 1974 through 1977, assum-
ing the overall 5% increase in tariffs from April 1, 1974, are summarized below:
…______-…------------…FMG million----------------------------
Interest and
Net      Other Non-
Operating  Operating  Operating   Operating         Net   Operating
Year       Revenues   Expenses       Income       Items       Income    Ratio
1974        3,253       2,905        348          198          150        .89
1975        3,603       3,170        433          208          225        .88
1976        3,794       3,356        438          222          216        .88
1977        4,010       3,553        457          212          245        .88
6.11      The projected cash flow through 1977 (Table 10) shows that the rail-
way should be able to cover its cash operating requirements, service its debt
and finance the 1973-75 investment plan together with the sundry items fore-
cast for 1976 and 1977. Pro forma balance sheets are given in Table 11.
There are no major points of critical importance arising from these forecasts.
6.12      Financial ratios are shown in Table 12.  The drop in the annual
return on total net fixed assets in use from 2.0% in 1971 to no more than
0.1% in 1972 and 1973 is due to the drop in traffic initiated by the cir-
cumstances mentioned in para. 6.04. Recovery is anticipated in 1974 and
from then onwards the rate improves through 1977. The 1977 level of 3.0%
is considered satisfactory to meet the financial needs stated in para. 6.06.
During negotiations, agreement was obtained that the railway will take all
necessary measures, including adjustments in rates to maintain a return of
at least 2.5% through 1976 and 3% thereafter.
C. Financing Plan
6.13      The summary given below shows the source and application of funds
over the investment plan period (1973-75). The project items will be
acquired in 1974 and 1975.



- 24 -
1973-75
FMG       US$
million   million
equivalent      %
Source of Funds
Internally generated                           2,787       13.0        48.8
Borrowings:
Already committed                            1,619        7.5        28.4
Proposed IDA credit (excluding
FMG 43 million to be
disbursed in 1976)                         1,075       5.0         18.8
Advance from Treasury                          230        1.1         4.0
2,924      13.6         51.2
Total                       5.711      26.6        100.0
Application of Funds
Debt Service                                   1,465        6.8        25.7
Capital additions and studies:
In 1973 and 1974 (already committed)         2,412      11.2         42.2
In 1974 and 1975 (under project)
(excluding FMG 43 million
to be disbursed in 1976)                  1_648        7.7         28.9
4,060      18.9         71.1
Additions to working capital
and other requirements                         186       0.9          3.2
Total                       5,711      26.6        100.0
6.14      Borrowings already committed during this period include FMG 775
million from USAID for the Ambila-Brickaville realignment, FMG 800 million
from CCCE/COFACE 1/ of France for locomotives, and FMG 44 million from STIPE 2/
of Italy for technical assistance.
1/   Compagnie Francaise d'Assurance pour le Commerce Exterieur.
2/   Societe d'Etudes Techniques Italiens pour l'Etranger.



- 25 -
6.15      During negotiations, the Government confirmed that US$5.2 million
of the IDA credit will be relent to the RNCFM on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association. These envisage repayment over 20 years including
a 3-1/2 year grace period at 7-1/4% interest per annum.
6.16      Assuming the increase in revenues (para. 6.09), RNCFM should be able
to meet the local costs of the project and the debt servicing arising from it
and the other external financing already undertaken. If, however, due to
factors beyond the railway's control there were lower earnings and/or unfore-
seen expenditures, RNCFM would be unable to contribute fully toward the fi-
nancing of the project; to ensure that the execution of the project is not
jeopardized because of shortage of funds, the Government has agreed to make
all necessary funds available to complete the project. RNCFM's financial
viability could also be endangered if it were to incur substantial additional
debt.  During negotiations RNCFM agreed not to incur any additional long-term
debt without the Association's prior agreement unless its net cash revenue
for the fiscal year or the 12 consecutive months immediately before the date
of incurrence, whichever is greater, would be at least 2.0 times its maximum
debt service requirements of any succeeding year on all RNCFM debts.
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECMENDATI0N
7.01      The following are the principal project matters on which agreement
was reached with the Government and RNCFM during credit negotiations:
(a)  limiting railway investments (para. 2.05 and 4.02);
(b)  employment of independent auditors (para. 3.09);
(c)  improved handling of import goods (para. 3.21);
(d)  procurement in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines
(para. 4.12);
(e)  employment of consultants acceptable to IDA
(para. 4.13);
(f)  establishing and attaining financial objectives
(para. 3.25, 6.06, 6.09, and 6.12);
(g)  project financing (paras. 6.15 and 6.16); and
(h)  debt limitation (para. 6.16).
7.02      Signature of a contract with the management and accounting consult-
ants who will provide technical assistance to RNCFM is a condition of credit
effectiveness (para. 4.13).
7.03      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.0 million to the
Government of Madagascar.
December 26, 1973






ANNEX 1
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
R;IiTj9.,IY PROWJT'3
Description of Railway Property, December 31, 1972
I. TRACK
Tananarive - Tamatave, 371 kni, built 1901 - 1913
Minimum curve radius                                 50 m
Maximum gradient                                     2.5;
137 bridges, total length                            2,934' m
31 tunnels, total length                             2,736 m
Rails, 30 kg/m., continuously welded in alignnents and curves
300 m or less, laid in 1957 - 1958.
On section kn 0-300 mainly qùeel sleepers, 1 ,250 - 1,500 per
km, laid in 1953 - 1957.
On section km 300-375 mainly timber sleepers, 1,500 per km,
laid in 1957.
Stone ballast, 300-700 l/m.
Tananarive - Antsirabe, 158 km, built 1912 - 1925
Minimum curve radius                                 125 m
Maximum gradient                                     2.5%
58 bridges, total length                             2,o40 m
7 tunnels, total length                              1,157 m
Rails mainly 25-26 kg/m 10-12 m length, laid in 1923.
On about 102 km,timber sleepers 1,300-1,500per Ion laid in
1964-1971.
On about 42 km, steel sleepers 1,200 - 1,300 per km laid in
1964 - 1971.
Stone ballast 500-800 l/m
Moramanga - Lac Alaotra, 167 km, built 1914 - 1923
Minimum curve radius                                 125 m
Maximum gradient                                     1.5%o
107 bridges, total length                            956 m
On about 20 km, rails 37 kg/m. 1i1 m length, laid in 1970 - 1973;
remaining rails 25-26 kg/m 10-12 m length laid in 1923.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
On about 128 kn,timber sleepers 1,250-1,500 per hn laid between
1923 - 1971; on about 37 kh,steel s9eepers 1,200-1,250 per km,
laid in 1923.
Stone ballast, 500-600 1/m.
Fianarantsoa - Manakara, 163 km, built 1926 - 1936
Miniimum curve radius                                50 m
Maximnum gradient                                    3.5%
59 bridges, total length                             2,046 m
56 tunnels, total length                             5,788 m
Rails, mainly 28-31 kg/m, 9-11 m length, laid in 1932 - 1936
(used rails from 1900).
Mainly steel sleepers, 1,350 per km laid in 1927 - 1936.
Stone ballast, 600 l/m.
II.  MOTIVE POWER AND ROLLING STOCK
Northern System  Southern System  Total
A.  Line locomotives, diesel
BBBB, 3600 hp, C.E.M.                1                              1
BBB, 575-625 hp, Alsthomn           12                 -           12
DB, 850-1050 hp Alsthorm            16                 2          18
Total                 29                 2           31
B.  Shunters, diesel
400 hp, Fauvet, Girel                1                -             1
260 hp, Brissoneau                   2                -             2
160 hp, Whitcomb                    14                            14
150 hp, de Dietrich                  4                             4
Total            21                            21
C. Railcars
600 hp, Soulé                        5                 -           5
500 hp, de Dietrich                  4                 2           6
80 hp, Michelin                      4                 -           4
Total            13                 2          15



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Northern System Southern System Total
D. Passenger Coaches
Wooden                             21                 5           26
Metal                              54                 4           58
Total           75                 9           84
E.  Freight Wagons
Covered Wagons 10-15 tons         127                13          14o
Covered Wagons 30-35 tons         3421!              44          386
Flat Wagons 12 tons                61                 4           65
Flat Wagons 30-35 tons            149                 8          157
Gondola Wagons, 30 tons            85                 5           90
Tip-Wagons, 30-35 tons             65                 -           65
Refrigerator Wagons                 5 /               -            5
Tank Wagons
(not owned by RNCFM)        68                4           72
Total          902                78          980
Age 1973
Total                 Age (Years)
Number    or Less  6-10  11-20  21-30  Over 30
Line Locomotives       31        4         3    12     12        -
Shunters               21        1         -    14      4        2
Railers                15        -         5     6      3        1
Passenger Coaches      84       10        16    29      1       28
Freight Cars          980      153       203   241    191      1 92
1/ Of which two notowned by RNCFM.
December 26, 1973






ANNEX 2
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
RAILWAY PROJECT
RNCFM Tariff Structure
Passengers
1.    The basic fare per passenger-kilometer irrespective of distance (as
from March 13, 1964) is FMG 5.90 for First Class and FMG 2.95 for Second Class,
but because of special fares for different social groups and under different
conditions, average revenues are considerably less (see Table 3). Some of
these reductions are :
Military personnel   - 50% to 75% fare reductions depending on rank.
Special Tariff No. 1 - reduces by 30% to 40% fares on the Tananarive-
Antsirabe line because of road competition;_and
establishes special tariffs for commuter traffic
ranging between FMG 2.2 and FMG 5.5 according to
distance. There are also reductions of about 20%
for weekend travel.
Special Tariff No. 2 - reduces by 30% to 75% fares for families, depend-
ing on the number of dependents (from 3 to 7 or
more); and reduces by 50% to 75% fares for war
veterans or invalids.
Special Tariff No. 4 - reduces by 50% fares for group travel.
2.    These reductions cause the RNCFM to forego revenues of about FMG 100
million per annum.
Freight
3.    Freight rates also date back to PËrch 13, 1964, no basic changes having
been incorporated since. About three-quarters of freight traffic travels ac-
cording to published tariffs.  There are three basic classifications
Parcels etc.       -  up to 100 kg
Less than carload - up to L.99 tons
Carload            -  5.0 tons and above
which are sub-divided into :
Parcels : according to type of service (express, etc.)



ANNEX'2
Page 2
Less than carload: according to commodity varies between FPM 11.0
to FMG 15.0 per ton-km
Carload             according to type of commodity varies between
FMG 10.8 and FMG 14.5 per ton-km.
4.    There are also maxy special tariffs which, according to the size of
the wagon, type of commodity and destination, vary between FMG 25.0 per ton-km
for express parcels to FMG 3.43 per ton-km for fertilizer.
5.    About a quarter of the railway's traffic travels according to oegotiated
rates which vary between FMG 16.08 and FMG 4.10 per ton-km.  Some examples:
FMG per ton-km
Petroleum products              16.08
Live animals                      9.33
Construction materials           7.61
Agricultural products            6.29
Fertilizer                        5.76
Charcoal and firewood            4.10
December 26, 1973



ANNEX 3
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
RAILWAY PROJECT
Notes On Assumptions Underlying Railway Traffic Forecasts
1.        Actual and forecast railway traffic are given in Table 6.  The
forecasts were based on:  i) the interzonal comwodity flow analysis and
projections prepared by the consultants SETEC (Etude de Factibilité Routière
à Madagascar - 1972); ii) the railway's own estimates and forecasts; and
iii) the investigations and analyses carried out by the Bank's 1972 Economic
Review Mission and the railway appraisal mission. Forecasts were checked
for consistency with earlier (1969) forecasts prepared for the Port of
Tamatave Project (see Report PTR-h8a).
2.        SETEC's analysis and projections are based on an inter-sectoral
input-output model, assuming inter alia an average annual GDP increase of 5%
for the period 1971-1985. The GDP growth assumption is probably a little
optimistic, at least for near future; certain adjustments were made, to take
this into account where appropriate. Due to the political disturbances that
took place in 1972, including the closure of the Tamatave port at the end of
the year, the 1972 and 1973 traffic figures do not represent a trend. No
significant road competition is expected to develop during the forecast
period.
3.        The forecasts are conservative overall, particularly if compared
with actual experience from 1967-1971.  During that period, commercial freight
traffic, in terms of tons, increased on average by 11.6% a year and by 15.2%
in terms of ton-km.  Even excluding petroleum products and chromite ore which
are particular cases, growth was still very strong averaging about 7% per
annumi in terms of tons.  The following table summarizes past and projected
developmenteand assumptions regarding individual commodities are given below:
Average Annual Increase
1967-1971          1971-1977        1973-1-977
Tons   Ton-km      Tons   Ton-km  Tons    Ton-km
% %                %       A:       56 -    %
ImDort Traffic                      10.0    10.7         3..    3.6      9.1      9.)
Export Traffic                      32.0    39.0         1.6    1.8      8.C      9.0
Local Traffic                        7.3    11.0         4.3    5.o      9.2    10.0
Total Commercial                    11.6    15.2         3.5    3.8      9.1      9.4
-Excluding Petroleum
Products and Chromite              6.9     9.6         2.9    3.1      9.0      9.4
4.        The only ce-ment plant in Madagascar (Majunga area) is working at
full capacity (80,000 tons). 1971 internal consumption is estimated at
150,000 tons growing to 180,000 tons by 1975 and 300,000 tons by 1985.  Plans
to increase internal production (new plant) are still unsettled.   Cement transports
dropped sharply in 1972 and 1973. It is estimated that the 1971 level will be
reached in 1975 and that the railways cement transports thereafter will grow at
about 5-6% per annum through 1977.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
'4etween 1967 and 1971 petroleum products traffic increased on an
,2 per annum.  A refinery located in Tamatave supplies all of
:itdagascar's requirements and the railway carries all traffie to the central
highlands. This trend is expected to continue from 1973 on, growth being
projected at about 9.5% per annum.
qDe       Container traffic is relatively new to the railways.  On the basis
ofl interviews carr;ed out by RNCFM with shipping companies and users, this
traffic is estimated to double by 1977, reaching about 17,000 tons in that
yezr.
7.        The mining company (Pechiney - France) estimates that chromite
quantities to be transported should increase from about 123,000 tons in
1973 to 170,000 tons in 1974 which is the actual maximum mine output.
Forecast is based on contracts with headquarters in France. The proposed
ferro-chrome plant at Moramanga, which if implanted would increase traffic
volume, is not expected to materialize before 1977.
80        Use of fertilizer in Madagascar increased sharply through 1970 but
has since declined due to financing difficulties at the farmer level. National
consumption is estimated at about 30,000 tons (80% imported).  The Government
wishes to double consumption by 1975 mainly to increase rice and suger yield.
Plans for setting up a fertilizer plant in Tananarive are still unsettled.
Railway traffic has been conservatively estimated to increase to its 1970
level (23,000 tons) by 1977.
9.        Based on the projected industrial requirements and internal pro-
duction, chemical traffic has been estimated to increase from 8,000 tons in
1973 to about 12,000 tons in 1977.
10.       About 50% of Madagascar's consumption of unfinished and finished
textile products are presently imported. Because of increases in domestic
production, imports and railway traffic are expected to stabilize at about
10,000 tons per annum.
11.       In line with the projected requirements of the construction and
metalurgical industries, and the projected development of domestic production,
imports of steel and steel products are expected to increase at about 9% per
annum compared to 10% in recent years.  Railway traffic is expected to increase
from 9,000 tons in 1973 to 13,000 tons in 1977.
12.       Industrial products and vehicles transport on the railway has been
growing steadily, averaging about 12.5% a year in the period 1967-1971, but
dropped sharply in 1972 and 1973.  An average growth of 10% per annum has been
retained for the 1973-1977 period.
13.       Rice is the staple food of the Malagasy population and the mainstay
of the economy, accounting for about 45% of the total value of agricultural
production. Only about 20% of production is marketed. Production of paddy



AINNEX 3
Page 3
was about 1.8 million tons in 1970 and has been growing at about 2Q/ per annum
which compares with a population growth of 2.6%, so surpluses for export are
disappearing.  Traditionally, Madagascar has exported its higher quality rÎce
and imported lower quality. Of late (1971), however, it has become a net
împorter (about 18,000 tons in 1971). Forecasting future rice output and
traffic on the railway is difficult; a discussion of this problem is to be
found in the Agricultural Annex of the Bank's 1972 Economlie Mission Report.
Rice movements that concern the railway originate mainly from the Lac Alaotra
region, a surplus area and Tamatave (inports), and are destinated for deficit
areas such as Tananarive, Tamatave and the east coast in general.
1h.       Fast movements of rice on the railway have developed as follows:
---…tons 1000--------------
Import     Local       Export
Traffic    Traffic    Traffic    Total
1965      28          42          2          72
1966      13          26           8         47
1967      -           41         35          76
1968      -           49         43          92
1969       4          38         31          73
1970       1          69         29          99
1971      27          66         25         118
The table clearly indicates a growing total amount of rice transported although
individual streams vary quite sharply.  It has been conservatively estimated
that total movements on the railway will continue to increase to about 1h9,O00
tons in 1977, in line with the projected internal demand.  Imports are
expected to remain at a level of about 50,000 tons per annum and exports to
decline further in 1973 and then remain at a low level.
15.       Charcoal and firewood traffic is expected to stabilize at about
36,000 tons per annum because of increasing substitution by mineral fuels.
16.       Past growth of traffic made up of boxes, crates and containers and
other empties for packaging as well as the beverage industry has been steady
and brisk. Future growth is conservatively estinated at about 7% per annum.
17.       Coffee is IMadagascarts principal export (about 50,000 tons); however,
production is mainly located on the coast and only limited quantities travel
on the railway. Railway coffee traffie is estimated to drop 60% in 1973 and
thereafter remain at a low level of about 5,000 tons.
18.       Sugar that travels on the railway originates at a mill in Brickaville
and is mainly for consumption in the central highlands (domestic, food and
beverage industries, etc). This consumption is expected to increase at about
4% per annum.   Railway traffic is expected to remain under the 1971 level
through 1977.
19.       Vegetable anïd fruit traffic consists mainly of produce for Tananarive
(bananas, etc). A growth of about 6% per annum,js forecast.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
20.       Wood traffic increased sharply between 1967 and 1971, starting from
ball h      3,000 tons to 13,000 tons).  It is mainly related to developments
in the civil construction and furniture industries in Tananarive. A growth of
7.4% is forecast through 1977, in line with the projected requirements of these
industries. No allowance has been made for possible paper pulp industries in
Fianarantsoa and Moramanga. The former is now unlikely to materialize and the
latter would be operational only in the early 1980's.
21.       A 6% increase in miscellaneous import traffic is forecast for the
period. An increase of about 7.5% per annum, in line with past trends and
the overall development of population and economic activity in Madagascar is
estimated for local traffic: and a stronger increase in miscellaneous export
traffic to take into account possible increases in export (e.g. live animals).
The projected 1977 export traffic level of 14,000 tons is, however, still
considerably less than the 1967 level (21,000 tons).
22.       Passenger traffic forecasts have been based on past traffic growth
trends and population increases.   Between 1967 and 1971 the number of pas-
sengers transported increased at an average rate of 2.9%, and at 3.6% in
terms of passenger-km (Table 7). For purpose of the present projection it
has been assumed that the average distance travelled will decline from around
77 km in 1971 to around 72 km in 1977, and the number of passengers is esti-
mated to increase an average 3i per annum, starting from the 1973 base.
December 26, 1973



ANNEX 4
Page 1
MADAGAMSGR
RAIIWAY PROJECT
Description of the Project
1.        The project comprises part of the RNCFM's 1973-1975 Investment Plan,
plus technical assistance to the MAT on transport planning and coordination.
The total cost of the project including contingencies is estimated at US$8.9
million, with a foreign exchange amount of about US$6.0 million. The items
included in the project are as follows:
Track Renewal (US$680,000, 8% of project costs)
2.        Track on about 45 km on the Tananarive-Tamatave line vill be renewed
during the project period and, using the old rails from that section, about
10 km of track in the Managareza yard in Tamatave will be renewed.
Other Works (US$1.14 million, 13% of proJect costs)
3.        Other works include:
(a) a new crossing station between Mangoro and Moramanga on the Tananarive-
Tamatave line;
(b) extending yards and sidings as follows: (i) Tananarive, new sidings
r    'i&,r al areas and connecting track to a container terminal, (ii) Bricka-
ti le, adjustment of the yard after realignment, (iii) Moramanga, additional
formation tracks;
(c) additional buildings and staff quarters, mainly (i) extension of
workshop in Tananarive, (ii) completion of a load adjustment hall in Tamatave,
(iii) staff quarters, and (iv) medical stations in Tamatave, Fianarantsoa and
Andasibe.
Rolling Stock (US$2.38 million, 27% of project costs)
4.        50 freight wagons and 20 passenger coaches vill be procured under the
project. Out of the present fleet of 980 freight cars, 192 are over 30 years
old. Many of these cars are unsuited for modern operatîon and expensive to
maintain; 124 wagons, 45-60 years old, most of them with a load capacity of only
10 tons, will be scrapped during the next two years. Taking into consideration
(i) the traffic increases, (ii) an improved operational efficiency, (iii) recent
purchases,and (iv) the scrapping progran (see Annex 5), it is estimated that an
additional number of about 50 freight wagons will be required through 1977.
5.        Some 84 passenger coaches are on hand.  Included in the fleet are 26
wooden wagons, over 40 years old and in extremely bad condition; these will be
scrapped during the next three years. Based on the traffic forecast it is



AMNEZ 4
Page 2
estimated, as shown in Annex 5, that about 20 coaches will be required through
1976.
Track Material (US$2.05 million, 23% of project conts)
6.        This item includes 130 km of 36 kg/m rails, 16,000 steel sleepers and
20,000 m3 of ballast.  The wear of rails on the 60 km section from Andasibe (918
m above sea level) to Lohariandava (117 m above sea level) is very heavy; the
section is extremely steep and tortuous (about 21 km with gradients in excess of
2%, 136 curves with 50-100 m radius) and has the highest traffic density of all
sections of RNCFM. In order to improve the track quality and to reduce the
maintenance costs and the incidence of derailments it is proposed to increase the
rail weight from 30 to 36 kg/m and to increase the number of steel sleepers
from 1,250 to 1,500 per km.
Miscellaneous Material and Equipeent (US$0.70 million, 8% of project costa)
7.        This item includes (i) one automatic ballast tamping machine and one
set of automatic barriers, for which the foreign currency costs is proposed to
be financed under the credit, and (ii) three tractors, four trailers, one
crane and one elevator loader to be purchased locally.
Technical Assistance (US$1.95 million eguivalent, 22% of project costa)
Railway Management Services
8.        As described more fully in the main text (para. 3.08), RNCFM's
accounting methods and procedures are poor and inconsistent, and setting up
an appropriate accounting system is of high priority. Other areas in the
railway's management and operations also need to be reviewed and improved
upon and longer-term investment planning, taking into account the development
of other modes, should be undertaken. The project therefore includes the
services of consultants who would review, recommend and also assist in imple-
menting new management systems and procedures, as vell as prepare a long-term
investment plan for the railway and undertake on-the-Job training of key
personnel.  Terms of Reference for these services are given in Annex 6.  The
services are to be conducted in two phases of about 10 months each, totalling
about 130 man-months.
9.        The project includes a small amount for miscellaneous feasibility
studies to be undertaken by the railway.
Transport Planning and Coordination Assistance
10.       While complex technical and economic issues present thesmelys in
Madagascar's transport sector, the country presently lacks a sufficient nu ber
of qualified planning experts to evaluate and recommend on these issues. The
Ministère de l'Aménagement du Territoire presently has no expatriate assistance
in transport planning following the return of two experts to France. The
project, therefore, includes financing the services of five to six transport
experts for a period of two years,  who will be attached to the MAT and vill
liaise with the Direction du Plan on matters of intersectoral coordination.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
They will assist the Ministry in certain specifie areas such as: (i)
planning, reviewing and coordinating transport studies; (ii) formulating
policy regarding transport pricing and coordination; (iii) preparing
coordinated sectoral investment plans; (iv) undertaking specific studies
such as the preparation of a plan for the development of secondary or
penetration roads and the development of an integrated transport system
on the east coast; and (v) on-the-job training of Malagasy nationals in
transport planning, etc. (Annex 7).  About 160 man-months of consultantst
time over a period of two years are budgeted for this purpose. The experts
should be hired through a reputable consulting firm.
December 26, 1973






ANNEX 5
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
RAILWAY PROJECT
RNCFM Requirements for Main Line Diesel Iocomotives,
Freight and Passenger Wagons through 1976
A. Main Line Locomotive Requirements
Traffic units hauled by diesel locomotives
1971               385 million
1974               401 million
1975               434 million
1976               456 million
Locomotive fleet 1971
Typ-e         No.          Pover (hp)
BBB           12             7,160
BB            18            16,500
30            23,660
T-",afi~c units per locomotive
385
1971           305              *      12.83  million
1974          1.021/ x 12.83   -       13.09  million
1975          1.02   x 13.09   -       13.35  million
1975          1.02   x 13.35   -       13.62  million
Traffic units per hp
1971          385 000 000       m      16p272
1974          1.02 x 16,272    -       16,597
1975          1.02 x 16,597    -       16,929
1976          1.02 x 16,929    -       17,268
1/  Assuming operational efficiency increasing by 2% a year once management
consultants in field.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
AdditionaL locomotives
Type          No.          hp
1973              BB             3         3,600
1974              BB             4         4,800
The locomotive BBBB 3,600 hp, which is not performing satisfactorily, is
not taken into account.
Scrapping program
Type          No.            p
1974             BBB             2         1,080
1975             BBB             2         1,080
Future requirements
Method 1. (based on number of locomotives)
Total number of locomotives required
1974             401       -   30.6
13.09
1975             435       -   32.5
1976             46             335
Additional number required
1974            30.6 - 3 + 2 - 30    -   - 0.4
1975            32.5 - 7 + 4 - 30    .   -0 .5
1976            33.5 - 7 + 4 - JO   -       0.5
Met,yd 2 (based on hp>
Total number of hp required
1974             016,000,9000         -   24L,161
16,597
1975            434,000,000-*  25,636
1976              17,268              -   26,L07



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Additional hp and number required
J_                     Locomotives 1,200 hp
1974     245161 - 3,60o + 1,080 - 23,660 o    - 2,019      - 1.7
1975     255636 - 8,400 + 2,160 - 23,660    - 4L,26L4      - 3.6
1976     26,507 - 8,40Q + 2,160 - 23,660 =  - 3,493        - 2.9
Both methods of calculation indicate that no additional locomotives
are needed through 1976. No line locomotives are therefore included in the
project.
B. Freight Wagon Reguirements
Traffic in ton-km (petroleum products excludedÈâ/
1971           259 million
1973           227 million
1974           263 million
1975           287  million
1976           301 million
1977           316  million
Total Load Capacity 1971 (including 20 Nos. DK 10200 but excluding other DK)
Type          Nos.          Load Capacity Tons
Box Cars           480               12,413
Flat Cars          224                5,708
Gondolas            90                2,700
Tip Wagons          66                2,380
860               23,201
Net Ton-km per Ton of Capacity
1971     259,000 000              11,163
1974     1.02 x 11,163    -       11,386
1975    1.02 x 11,386    u        11,614
1976     1.025 x 11,6114   -      11,904
1977     1.025 x l1,901   -       12,202
)/ Petroleum products are transported in privately owned wagons.



ANNEX 
Page4
Total Ilad Capacity Reguired
1975          287,000,         n    24,712
11î,614
1976          3014000000       e    25,286
1977          316,2020 00           25,897
New Load Capacity
1972          1,050 tons
1973          1,645 tons
Scrapping Program (Ioad Capacity)
1972              54 tons
1973          1,030 tons
1974            680 tons
Additional Load Capacity Reguired
Year                           Tons                        Wagons 35 Tons
1975   24,712 - 2,695   +      1,764  -  23,201 -   580         17
1976   25,286 - 2,695   +      1,76I$  -  23,781 -  574         16
1977   25,897 - 2,695   +      1,764  -  24,355 -   6u          17
50
Included in the project are 50 wagons.
C. PassengerCar Requirements
Traffic, million passenger-km
1971            200.0
1974            205.0
1975            211.1
1976            217.14
Total Capacity 1971
Type            No.             Seats
Railcars         15               514
Wooden wagons    28             1,120
Steel wagons     62             4e346
105            5,980



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Passenger-km per seat
1971           200,000,000       -     33,1445
5.,980
1974           1.02  x 33,445   -      344,114
1975           1.02  x 34,114   =      344,796
1976           1.02  x 34,796   =      35,492
Total Capacity Reguired (Seats)
1974           205,0001000              6,009
314,11)4
1975           211,100,000       ,      6,067
314,796
1976           217,400,000       =      6,125
35,1492
Scrapping Program
1972           272  seats
1974           520  seats
1975           520  seats
Additional Capacity Regudred (Seats)
1975           6,067  +   792  - 5,980  -   879            13
1976           6,125  + 1,312  - 6,859  -   578             8
Total :    1,457           21
Included in the project are 20 cars.
December 26, 1973






ANNEX 6
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
RAILWAY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Railway Management and Accounting Services
I. OBJECTIVES
In the context of being set up as a semi-autonomous public enterprise,
RNCFM is faced with the need for preparing comDlete plans for reorganizing
and modernizing to achieve better rationalization of services.  RNCFM has
therefore decided to engage a firm to provide consultancy services for review-
ing, recommending and implementing modern systens and techniques for manage-
ment, railway operations, and better utilization of its manpower resources
through establishment of a system of "Management by Objective;" and to
include the implementation of traffic costing studies and appropriate tariff
levels and structure, financial planning and controls, general and cost account-
:ing systems, management information systens and investment planning. Particular
emphasis is to be given to devising training programs in these areas.
To this end, the consultancy sources shall consist of two phases.
Phase I, the principal subject of these Terms of Reference shall consist of:
a.   Reviewing the manner in which the statutory responsibilities
and objectives of RNCFM are being met by the existing organ-
zational structure.
b.   Recommending new and/or improved methods to enable RNCFM to
fulfill its responsibilities and meet its objectives.
c.  Assisting RNCFM in implementing recommended improvements of
organizational, financial and accounting nature, as agreed
with RNCFM.
d.   Establishing a system for the selection, training and develop-
ment of staff, which would assure RNCFM the availability of
properly qualified and experienced staff at all levels.
e.   Developing and introducing instructional manuals setting out
RNCFM's objectives, policies and procedures.
f.   Developing in detail Terms of Reference for Phase II, the
broad scope of which is given below.
Phase II, which will be the subject of separate Terms of Reference
and a separate contract to be negotiated upon completion of Phase I, shall
broadly consist of:
a.   Preparation of a detailed program of the railway's investment
needs through 1985, based on economic criteria, in particular



ANNEX 6
Page 2
taking into account the Governnent's general policy in the
transport sector. Such investment needs could include acqui-
sition of rolling stock, development of signaling systems,
construction of new lines and/or operational improvements
where required, etc.
b.   Investigating and recommending means for rationalizing certain
railway services such as closing uneconomic stations and lines,
changing service frequencies, etc., both from the point of view
of the railway's financial profitability and the economic
profitability for the country.
c.   Based on longer term investment needs and rationalization of
services, and on traffic costing information developed during
Phase I, the consultants shall carry out more refined investi-
gations and make recommendations as to longer term optimum
tariff levels and commercial policy to enable the railway to
meet its financial objectives.
d.   Undertake on-the-job training of key personnel as identified
during Phase I.
II. SOOPE OF WORK
A.   General
The scope of the present services comprises only Phase I of the
studies and services required for the RNCFM as outlined above. The Phase I
consultants shall, however, bear in mind the interdependence and sequen-tial
nature of the two phases and shall therefore, endeavor to anticipate and,
to the extent possible collect, during Phase I, all data required for the
execution of Phase II.
Selection for Phase I shall neither bar nor ensure consideration
of Phase I consultants for Phase II.
The consultants shall perform, according to internationally
accepted standards, all technical and administrative studies, economical,
statistical and financial analyses, field and operational investigations
and related work herein described as required to achieve the objectives
set forth in Section II above. In the conduct of this work, the consul-
tants shall cooperate fully with RNCFM, the Malagasy Goverument and other
public authorities involved, it being understood that RNCFM will provide
the data, studies and reports, outlined in Section IV hereof. The Consul-
tants shall review in detail these and other data, studies and reports,
and make use of them as deemed necessary. The consultants shall be solely
responsible, however, for the analysis and interpretation of all data
received; and for the findings, conclusions, recommendations made by them;
and for implementing approved plans, programs, systems, methods and
procedures.



ANNEx 6
Page 3
B.   Organizational
The Consultants shall analyze all available pertinent data on the
responsibilities, objectives and organization of RJCFM and shall, in parti-
cular:
a.   Review and if necessary recommend updating of the enabling
legislation.
b.   Develop a clear statement of RNCFM's obJectives.
c.   Determine how RNCFMIs statutory responsibilities and
objectives are being fulfilled at each existing level
of management.
d.   Review, recommend and implement organization structure
for the most effective, economical and efficient operation
of RNCFM, formulate a system for identifying and establishing
priorities and indicate the resources required for RNCFM to
achieve the priorities.
e.   Develop and implement a clear statement of functional and
management authority and responsibility and a system for the
delegation thereof at each level of management. Decentralize
the management process to appropriate management levels.
f.   Review and compile job classifications and job descriptions,
identifying the duties and responsibilities of each position
and the minimum qualifications required to fill it.
g.  Determine and recommend the minimum staffing levels required
to carry out the various activities.
h.   Prepare an organizational manual stating RNCFM's objectives
and policies and setting up its organizational structure.
C.   Operational
The Consultants shall study and review in detail the operations of
RNCFM and shall, inter alia:
a.   Recoimmend administrative and technical planning policies and
procedures for the achievement of the most efficient and
economical railway operation consistent with providing a
level of service to the public based on safety, reliability,
punctuality, convenience and comfort.
b.   Recommend planning techniques  for the effective planning and
provision of current and future requirements of facilities,
equipment and professional or technical services.
c.   Recommend train running schedules, maintenance schedules,
operational work plans, preventive maintenance programs, etc.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
d.  Prepare Operating Yanuals detailing policies, regulations,
standard procedure instructions covering (i) operation of
trains, yards and stations and (ii) control and maintenance
of motive power, rolling stock, track, signaling and tele-
commmications.
D.   Financial Planning, General and Cost Accounting
and Management Information Systems
The consultants shall review in detail the financial planning,
general and costaccounting and management information systemns needs of
RNCFM, and shall, inter alia:
a.   Develop a clear statement of RNCFM's financial objectives:
(i) in terms of achieving satisfactory annual levels of
profitability which would, after covering all costs
properly chargeable to revenue, generate sufficient
funds to meet RNCFM's debt servicing obligations and
make a reasonable contribution to the cost of future
improvements and/or expansion; and
(ii) develop the concept that the cost of operating the
railway should be met by railway users, keeping in
mind to cover at least current economic costs and to
make a reasonable or optimum contribution, as circum-
stances permit, towards fixed costs. In this context,
the consultants should pay particular attention to
studies carried out by other consultants in Madagascar,
regarding the development of competing modes.
b.   Implement a system for the current and continuous review of
RNCFM's financial objectives including method of updating
them, through the establishment of financial controls,
designed to ensure that all activities are conducted
efficiently at minimum cost.
c.   Develop and implement the concept of profit planning, the
setting up of operational objectives and the allocation of
resources in the form of operating expense budgets and
capital expenditure budgets both annual and long-term.
d.   Develop and implement policies and procedures and related
analytical techmiques to ensure proper planning, justifi-
cation, management and control of the above budgets.
e.   Develop and implement a standard financial accounting plan
and general accounts classification detailing balance sheet
accounts, profit and loss accounts, etc., together with
related policies, systems, procedures, follow-up methods
and definitions. The system should develop and provide



ANNEX 6
Page 5
for the use of analytical techniques as, for example, pro-
cedures for the timely collection of accounts receivable and
settlement of accounts payable.
f.   Review, develop and implement as appropriate, a cost accounting
plan and direct and indirect cost accounts classifications,
detailing cost centers, variable costs by passenger and freight
(by type) traffic, terminal costs (differentiated by station
operations, booking offices, yards, etc.), line haul costs, unit
costs (by basic units of km or ton-km for locomotive, wagon,
track, etc.). The cost accounting system should comprise the
basic data from which traffic costing studies could be carried
out.
g.   Review, develop and implement as appropriate, data processing
and analytical techniques  generally, and particularly in the
following areas:
(i)  self-balancing and integrated computer programs for
package applications such as, inter alia: accounts
receivable and revenues; accounts payable and expendi-
tures; traffic costing; depreciation and provisions
and reserves; cash movements and accounts payable and
receivable; payroll and personnel costs and benefits by
cost centers; stock pricing, stock movements and cost
of materials consumed by cost centers; and
(ii)  documentation procedures, and input data preparation
through integrated controls between financial and cost
accounting. Eliminate the existing segregation of
financial and costing accounting systems and the
divided responsibility for these under separate
departments.
h.   The accounting system should provide for full accrual account-
ing, monthly closing of accounts and the extraction of trial
balance and proof sheets. From these, it should be possible
to prepare and circulate monthly management reports, including
- Balance Sheet
- Profit and Loss Account
- Responsibility accounting - Plan/budget versus
actuals of performance in activity and amounts
- Status of Capital Expenditure Programs
- Cash Forecast/Flow
i.   Implement the use of related analytical techniques for the
proper evaluation of operational status of activities and
their financial implications.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
j.   Iimplement internal control systems through internal audit
procedures and built-in internal checks of the handling and
accounting of cash, payroll, purchasing, inventories, etc.
k.   Implement a standard system and depreciation policy for fixed
assets accounting.
1.   Recommend and install an organizational structure for the most
efficient conduct of the accounting and finance functions.
m.  Design and implement the use of standard forms for recording
and controlling all transactions.
n.   Prepare an accounting manual setting forth a coded chart of
accounts detailing and describing balance sheet accounts,
profit and loss accounts, functional and departmental accounts,
cost/profit centers, objective accounts, policies, standard
procedure instructions, limits of authority, forms and methods
governing their use, report formats (including an inventory of
reports describing their purpose and method of preparation,
assigning responsibility for preparation and depicting pre-
paration dates, due dates, frequency and distribution), use of
capital and expense budget programs (including guidelines dis-
tinguishing between capital items and items charged directly
to expense), etc. The manual should be of assistance to
supervisors in ensuring the accurate accounting of all trans-
actions, the timely and accurate presentation of information
and the training of staff.
The Consultants shall maintain continuous and close coordination and
consultation with RNCFM's auditors.
E.   Traffic Costing
The Consultants shall undertake traffic costing studies to provide
estimates of the costs and profitability or otherwise of individual traffic
streams, distinguishing between different types of traffic (trains, commodities,
passenger), different lines and directions, different operating characteristics
(turnaround time of wagons, train loadings, etc.), etc.  During Phase II these
tariff studies shall be refined further, taking into account the proposed
measures and investments for modernizing and/or rationalizing railway operations.
F.   Statistics
Review, develop and implement information systems, reports, docu-
mentation procedures and computer applications for the development of useful
detailed data.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
G.   Selection, Training and Development of Staff
The Consultants shall review the staffing level, qualifications,
experience and standards to meet staffing requirements, and shall:
a.   Implementa systen for the selection of staff which would assure
the induction into RNCFM of properly qualified staff.
b.   Determine the suitability of existing staff at each management
level. Recomnimend corrective action where required.
c.   Identify training requirements and recommend in-house or
outside training programs for staff in all of RNCFM's depart-
ments of activity, vith special emphasis on the needs of
accounting and financial activities.
d.   Review existing personnel policies and practices wiTI reference
to hiring, performance and progress reviews, prox>t: n  dis-
cipline, entitlements, salary and position classifica-t-.ns
(staff categories, grades and echelons)etc. Particular atten-
tion should be paid to the orderly removal of staff who do not
perform satisfactorily, the decision to be taken at the
appropriate supervisory level. Recommend and install an
effective staff relations system of policies and procedures.
e.   Prepare a staff relations administrative manual incorporating
ail approved policies and procedures covered in (d) above.
-ie Schedule *or Consultants! Servîces and Reports
The Consultants shall commence field work within thirty calendar
days of the effective date of this contract. They shall prepare and submit
the following reports within the time limits indicated below:
a.   An Inception Report, within two months (or as otherwise agreed)
of the starting date describing the methodology to be emnployed,
summarizing the initial findings and listing preliminary proposals,
plans and programs, and schemes for their implementation.  (Number
of copies and their distribution to be defined).
b.   Progress Reports, at two-montb intervals commencing two months
after submittal of the Inception Report, giving a statement of
all work performed during the reporting period, the schedule of
work for the next reporting period, forecast completion stages
of the programs covering implementation of approved recommenda-
tions, a list of the proposals, plans, programs and recommendations
awaiting approval, and a summary of interim findings, as well as
the arrival and departure dates and days worked for each staff
member of the Consultants engaged in the studies. (Number of
copies and their distribution to be defined).



ANNEX 6
Page 8
c.   An Interim Report, within eight months of the starting date (or
as otherwise agreed) summarizing all work performed and the
Consultants' findings and recommendations, in particular the
proposed methods and schedule for implementing recommendations.
This report should include the Draft Terms of Reference for
Phase II Studies, and should be accompanied by all Manuals,
Instructions, etc., prepared. (Number of copies and their
distribution to be defined).
d.   A Final Report within twelve months of the starting date,
incorporating all revisions, updating, etc., to the Interim
Report in the light of RNCFM's cornments thereon, a description
of the progress and/or problens in.inplementing recommendations,
and a list of outstanding recommendations remaining to be
approved or implemented. (Number of copies and their distri-
bution to be defined).
The reports mentioned in a,c, and d, above shalLcontain a concise
first chapter summarizing all major findings, proposals, plans, programs and
recommendations of the Consultants and the implementation stages of approved
recommendations. All the aforementioned reports as well as the working docu-
ments and published manuals and instructions shall be prepared in the French
language.
III. DATA, LOCAL SERVICES AND FACILITIES
TO BE PROVIDED BY RNCFM
A.  Economical, Financial, Staff, Statistical
and Technical Data Available
RNCFM is to provide the Consultants all existing data, studies
and reports including the following:
a.   Reports prepared by specialist from Caisse Central de
Cooperation Economique (Mr. Dalmas) and Office Central
des Chemins de Fer d'Outre-Mer (Mr. La Bris).
b.   Reports prepared by Inspection Generale de l'Etat.
c.   RNOFM1s own publications, statistics, reports, instructions,
standing orders, etc., prepared from time to time.
d.   SETEC's Highway Feasibility Study
e.   The Railway Study prepared by the Consultants SORCA-BECEKA
in 1966.



ANNEX 6
page 9
RNCFM is also to provide the Consultants with all available addi-
tional data as required and determined by the Consultants.
B.   Cooperation of Governmental Agencies and Counterparts
In connection with work by the Consultants that requires the
cooperation of other Governmental agencies or authorities, RNCFMts auditors,
etc., RNCFM is to provide liaison, and is to ensure that the Consultants
have access to all information required for the completion of their survey.
RNCFM is to assign, on a full-time basis, qualified counterparts
to work with the key personnel of the Consultants for the purposes of liaison,
training and prompt review of the findings and recommendations of the consul-
tants and the implementation of approved recommendations.
December 26, 1973






ANNEX 7
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
RAILWAY FROJECT
Terms of Reference for Transport
Planning and Coordination Advisory Services
I.  INTRODUCTION
The Government of Madagascar wishes to improve the level and quality
of transport planning and coordination in Madagascar. In particular, it intends
to ensure that future transport developments will be closely coordinated with
the development of the productive sectors of the economy. The Government has
therefore decided to obtain the services of a numnber of reputable transport
specialists. They will be assigned to the headquarters of the Ministère de
l'Amé'nagement du Territoire (MAT) in Tananarive, and attached to the office of
the Secretary General of that Ministry.  One or more of the "eam may, Lrom time
to time or on a permanent basis, be also attached to the Direction du Plan to
liaise and assist in matters of inter-sectoral coordinatlon.
The services are for a duration of 24 months and will be provided by an
econornist specialized in planning who will also coordinate the work of the group,
two transport economists/planners, one highway engineer specialized in maintenance,
and other specialists on shorter termi assignments as may be needed. It is
tentatively estîmated that the services will require a total of about 160 man-monthE
II.  OBJEC IVE
7ne overall puxpose of sce services is to improve the level and quality
;- ,ansport -ularnnig in iIadagascar.  To this end the Consultants will assist the
Government and the MAT in particular in developing a coordinated transport system
for the country and in defining appropriate transport policies for each mode.
In 1973 the Government has embarked on a major program of maintenance/
rehabilitation and improvement of its secondary and tertiary road network that
will eventually encompass 17,000 kom of roads dispersed throughout the country and
connecting to the 8,000 km network of primary roads (routee nationales), the
railway lines and the ports.
The Consultante shall focus on advising and assisting the Government and
MAT i.n planning and programming for the maintenance/rehabilitation and improvement
of the secondary road network including estimates of investment and operating costsZ
They will assist MAT in defining the nature and level of maintenance and/or improve-
ment needed on variOus roads. The analysis of the economic and social environnent
of the roads taking into account development in the productive sectors and coordina-
tion with other transport modes, combined with an updated road inventory, and
traffic counts, would indicate which roads should be maintained in their present
condition, or marginally improved through maintenance, and which would justify
more substantial improvement or reconstruction. On the basis of their analysis



ANNEX 7
Page 2
and taking into account the Government development policies and strategy, the
Consultants shall together with MAT recoamend a realistie implementation progran
(with priority ranking for the various elements of the system) reflecting the
cost and revenues available for the program.
Since the secondary network is extensive and covers all regions of the
country, the Consultants will have to consider the coordination with the other
transport modes and in particular:
(a) the primary road network to which the secondary
network connects; and they will assist MAT in
planning its developnent and maintenance;
(b) the railway services in the regions served by the
railway lines;
(c) the ports and coastal as well as long distance
shipping;
(d) other modes of transport, such as aviation, where
the cost of servicing certain areas by road would
be prohibitive and they will advise and assist
Government in formulating policies and plans to
provide transport services to such areas.
They will also undertake specific studies and investigations for
integrated multi-modal development of the transport system (i.e. possibilities
for coastal shipping, ports to be developed, others to be closed, and road
network to connect productive areas to these ports) and advise on methods and
procedures to ensure coordination of the system.
In working towards the objectives above, the Consultants will:
(j) determine and assist in collecting and compiling
the data required to implement a continuous and
effective transport planning mecbanism in the
country;
(ii) recommend and assist in setting an effective system
of intersectoral development information enabling
transport planning to be nade responsive to priorities
developed for other sectors (interministerial meetings
cr through the Direction du Plan), and improving the
level and effectiveness of intersectoral investnent
coordination;
(iii) train Malagasy nationals in matters related to
transportation planning and coordination so that
once these services are completed they will be
capable of taking over full responsibility for
transport planning in Madagascar, including the



ANNEX 7
Page 3
preparation, evaluation and supervision of
transport projects and policy formulation;
(iv) advise and assist the Government and the MAT
on current transportation problms and issues,
including planning, reviewing and coordinating
transport studies and evaluating major invest-
ment projects proposed for transportation;
(v) assist the Government and the MAT in preparing
coordinated transportation investment programs
including budgeting of investment and operating
funds for the entire transport sector;
(vi) advise and assist the Government in transport
policy fozrulation such as pricing and regulation;
and
(vii) undertake together with MAT personnel specific studies
leading to the preparation of a road project that
Madagascar could submit for consideration by the
World Bank.
The above objectives are not intended to be exhaustive and except for
the assistance in planning and programming the secondary/tertiary road network
do not necessarily reflect an order of priority. The Consultants are expected
in the first four months of their assignment to study and recommend a) how they
will proceed with the study of the secondary/tertiary road network, b) the
other areas and issues in the transport sector that need priority attention,
and c) the means, procedures and methodology to be followed in solving these
problems. These recommendations are to be included in the Consultants' Inception
Report.
III. SCOPE 0F CONSULTING SERVICES
General
The assignment shall cover advisory services to the MAT, and as
required, to the Direction du Plan, in matters relating to all modes of transport
that have a significant role in the economy of Madagascar, including railroads,
highways and highway transport, ports and maritime transport, airports and civil
aviation.
The Consultants will carry out according to internationally accepted
standards, all technical and administrative studies, economic analyses, financial
investigations, field investigations, training and related work herein described,
as required to attain the objectives in Section II above and/or amendments to
these objectives. In the conduct of their work, the Consultants will cooperate



AMNEX 7
Page 4
f-ully with the MAT and other Government agencies designated by that Ministry.
Che YAT will provide the data and services outlined in Section IV; but, the
Consultants will be solely responsible for the analyses and interpretation of
a-l data received and for the findings, conclusions and recommendations contained
in their reporte. Full-time counterpart personnel will be assigned by the
Government, to work and be trained by the Consultants for the duration of the
services. The Consultants' cooperation with the Governrmnt counterpart personnel
at all times is of primary importance.
Timing and Reports
The Starting Date, when the Consultants commence field work will be
no later than 30 calendar days of the effective date of their contract. They
will submit the reports listed below within the time period indicated. All reports
are to be submitted in the French language.
(1) An Inception Report withing four months of the Starting Date
presenting:
a) the Consultants' detailed work program;
b) their initial findings and recommendations; and
c) the description of the methodology to be used in the
identification of high priority projects; this report
shall also identify and present justification on the
requirements of other short-term experts needed to
carry out the work ( ten copies to the Government and
five copies to the Association);
(2) Progress Reports at three monthly intervals, giving a statement
of all work performed during the reporting period, a schedule of work for the
next report in the period and a summary of interim findings and recommendations
(ten copies to the Governnent and five copies to the Association);
(3) A final Report (within 24 months of the Starting Date) containing:
(a)  a summary of the Consultants' work during the
entire period of the services;
(b)  a summary of all the Consultants' findings and
recomiendations including an assessment to what
extent the services' objectives have been met; and
(c) recommendations regarding the qualifications and
number of staff necessary to continue with transport
coordination and planning.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
IV.  DATA, LOCAL SERVICES AND FACILITIES
Data and Cooperation of Governoent Agencies
The Government is to provide the Consultants with all available
economic, financial, traffic and technical data which may be required in the
course of the services including data on:
(i) studies sponsored by the Government on transport or
related matters and on developments that will have an
impact on transport requirements;
(ii) economic development programs and policies of Madagascar
including data such as the distribution of population,
the location of agriculture, mining, and industrial pro-
duction and consumption;
(iii) traffic by all modes of transport;
(iv) maps of the country and its transport network; and
(v) cost experience on recent construction projects.
The Government is also to furnish the Consultants with all available information
on transport costs and revenues and on the organization and operation of the
agencies responsible for transport administration. In connection with work by
the Consultants that requires the cooperation of several Governnent Ministries
or agencies, the Government is to provide liaison to ensure that the Consultants
have access to all the information required for the compietion of the services.
The Government is to assign qualified counterparts to assist and work
I m<h the personnel of the Consultants.  The courterparts are to be assigned on
a full-time basis.
Facilities and Supporting Staff for the Consultants
The Government is to provide the necessary facilities and supporting
staff to help the Consultants in performing their services; as well as two
four-wheel drive vehicles for their official travel.
December 26, 1973






ANNEX 8
MADAGASCAR
RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                           Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                  at end of Quarter
(US$ '000)
1973/74
March 31, 1974                                               100
June 30, 1974                                                300
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                         1 ,300
December 31, 1974                                         2,400
March 31, 1975                                             2,800
June 30, 1975                                             3,900
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                         5,400
December 31, 1975                                         5,600
Mfarch 31, 1976                                            5,900
June 30, 1976                                              6,ooo
Assumptions:  1)  Credit effective in April 1974.
2) Railway management and accounting consultants in
field in February 1974 (financed retroactively).
3) Transport planning consultants in field in May 1974.
4)  Orders for rails placed in February 1974 for first
delivery in July-August 1974.
5) Delivery of box cars in November-December 1974 and
passenger coaches in July-August 1975.
December 26, 1973






ANNEX 9
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
RAILWAY PROJECT
Notes on Economic Evaluation
Traffic projections are given in Table 6 and Annex 3. Calculation
of line locomotive and rolling stock requirements are given in Annex 5.
Road transport operating costs are net of taxes and duties, but railway
operating costs include taxes and duties in the absence of the information
on their incidence, a procedure which in fact underestimates the net
benefits. Price contingencies have been deducted. Because the returns
obtained in the analysis described below were very favorable, neither
labor nor foreign exchange costs have been shadow-priced.
A. Track Renewal
The economic cost of track renewal on the Andasibe-Lohariandava
section (62 km) of the main line and, utilizing the old main line rails,
about 10 km of track in marshalling yards is:
EMG million
Rails                                            324
Sleepers                                          52
Ballast                                           20
Works                                            168
Less: residual value of
100 km rails (2,800 tons)                 100*
1.  Annual Savings in Track Maintenance Costs
a. Main line maintenance costs
Without renewal       FMG 600,000 per km
With renewal          FMG 350,000 per km
Saving     FMG 250,000 per km
Annual saving over 62 km      FMG 15.5 million
b. Stations and yards maintenance costs
Without renewal       FMG 300,000 per km
With renewal          FMG 100,000 per km
Saving     FMG 200,000 per km
Annual saving over 10 km     FMG 2.0 million
* Not taken into account in the economic evaluation.



Annex g
Page 2
2.   Annual Savings due to Reduction in Derailments
a. Main Line
There were 22 derailments on the Tananarive-Tamatave line in 1971
of which 8 were on the Andasibe-Lohariandava section, 12 in various
stations on the line, and 2 on other sections of the line. The
8 derailments on the Andasibe-Lohariandava section caused traffic
to be stopped for 95 hours in total. Past statistics show that
when the rail on the main line was last renewed in the 1950ts,
average annual derailments dropped from 10 to 1. It has been con-
servatively estimated that following renewal, derailments on the
Andasibe-Lohariandava section will be reduced from 8 to 3 per year
(no allowance being made for an increase in the number of derailments
by 197h). The average cost of one main line derailment (track and
rolling stock repairs and the cost of delays to other traffic) has
been estimated at about FMG 12.0 million. Savings would therefore
total FMG 60.0 million per annum.
b. Stations and yards
The old rails from the above renewal will be used for badly needed
track renewal of stations and yards on the same line. It is assumed
that about 10 km of track will be renewed under the project and
that derailments in stations will be reduced from the present 12
to 10 per year. The average unit cost of station derailments is
estimated at about FMG 1.5 million (not taking into account the
cost of main line interruptions which amounted to 80 hours in
1971). Yearly savings therefore total FMG 3 million.
On the basis of the above quantified benefits and assuming that
under a "do nothing" situation annual maintenance costs would increase by
15% and derailments by 10% per annumn, the economic return over a ten-year
period (197h-1983) is 20%.
B. Freight Wagons
The total cost net of taxes of the 50 freight wagons (35 ton
capacity) to be procured under the project is FM 195 million (US$1.0 million).
Calculation of wagon requirements through 1976 is given in Annex 5 and
summarized as followss



Annex 9
Page 3
Wagon Capacity           Capacity Deficit
Demand-l/    Without Wagon Renewal    Without Wagon Renewal Additional
(million          Under Project              Under Project         Wagons
ton-km)          (million ton-kmh)_  (million ton-km)             Required
1975       287.0                 280.3 2/                     6.7               17
1976       301.0                 287.3 3/                    13.7               16
1977       316.0                 294.5 3/                    21.5               17
1/ Excluding petroleum products.
2/ 2% increased productivity assumed; reduction due to scrapping
to be undertaken in 1974.
3/ 2.5% increased productivity assumed.
If the above deficit of about 100,000 tons in 1976 could be
diverted to existing roads, no allowance being made for road maintenance/
rehabilitation or railway terminal costs, the additional economic cost
by road is estimated at FMG 12.8 per ton-km  (14.7 - 1.9) comparing average
road vehicle operating cost on the Tananarive-Tamatave road with marginal
costs on the railway.
However., since it is difficult to predict which commodities
would be diverted to road, and marginal costs by comnodity type are not
available, it has been conservatively assumed that the appropriate
marginal cost for freight is in fact as high as the railways' average
cost (FM 6.5 per ton-km). This cost has been compared to road transport
average cost and, by assuming a 10-year economic life for the assets
because of possible traffic diversion in the 1980ts (no aUlowance being
made for residual value), the following result is obtained:
Traffic
Diverted to Roads      Savings         Total
Investanent      Without Project    per ton-km        Savings
(FMG million)      (million ton-km)        (FMG)     (FMG million)
1974          195.0
1975                                6.7                8.2           55
1976                               13.7                8.2          112
1977                               21.5                8.2          176
1978                               21.5                8.2          176
1979                               21.5                8.2          176
1980                               21.5               8.2           176
1981                               21.5               8.2           176
1982                                21.5               8.2          176
1983                               21.5               8.2           176
Economic return = 58%



Annex 9
Page 4
By undertaking the analysis from the railway's standpoint, i.e.,
v-ne incremental net revenue derived from the investment (average revenue
.-Žus marginal operating costs, minus locomotive depreciation: (Pm 8.11 -
- 93 - 0.37 = 5.81 per ton-km) the finacial return over 10 years is
aUoSb 50%.
C. Passenger Coaches
The evaluation of passenger coaches is basically the same as
that for freight wagons. Calculation of coach requirements through 1976
is given in Annex 5 and summarized as follows:
Coach Capacity       Trafficf Deficit
Demand     Without Renewal       Without Renewal      Additional
(million     Under Project         Under Project        Coaches
pass-km)    (million pass-km)     (million pass-km)     Required
1974      205.0            194.7                 10.3               4
1975      211.1            180.5 1/              30.6              +8
1976      217.4            165.6 1/              51.8              +8
1/ Reduction due to scrapping program.
Assuming the railways' marginal cost for passenger traffic
(including depreciation of rolling stock) is FMG 1.63 per pass-km (this
being reasonable since the railway is in business principally to carry
freight), on the basis of road transport costs of FM 3.4 per pass-km,
the savings per pass-km is FMiG 1.77. The economic return was calculated
as follows:
Traffic
Diverted to Roads      Savings          Total
Investment      Without Project      per pass-km       Savings
(FMG million)    (million pass-lM)        (F^)        (FK  million)
1975       26h.0                30.6               1.77           54.2
1976                            51.8               1.77           91.7
1977                            51.8               1.77           91.7
1978                            51.8               1.77           91.7
1979                            51.8               1.77           91.7
1980                            51.8               1.77           91.7
1981                            51.8               1.77           91.7
1982                            51.8               1.77           91.7
1983                            51.8               1.77           91.7
1984                            51.8               1.77           91.7
Economic return = 41%



Annex I
Page5
The return to be derived by the railway on this investment (see
wagons above, FMG 2.47 - 1.25 - 0.23 = 0.99 per pass-km) is about 17%
over 10 years.
D. Summry
The overaIl return, derived from combinxing the elements that
can be quantified, is estimated at about 35%, with return on individual
items ranging between 20% and nearly 60%. It is concluded that any
variations, within reasonable limits, of the assumptions, which are
already conservative, would still produce quite acceptable results.
December 26, 1973






ANNEX 10
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
RAILWAY PROJECT
Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
1.     erating Revenues:  Are based on an annual average growth of 11%
in 1974 and 6% thereafter in freight and of 3 to 4% in passenger traffic
beyond 1973. A 5g increase in tariff rates is assumed from April 1, 1974
onwardse  Other additional revenues resulting from factors mentioned in
para 6.09 of the text have also been incorporated.
2.    Operating Expenses:
Personnel Expenses: Incorporate staff bonus (prime de
bilan7 and include a 10% increase in 1974; thereafter
an annual increase of 5% is projected.
4aterials and Supplies:  Assumed to increase at the rate
of 10% p.a.
General ExMenses:  Assumed in 1973 to be the same as in
1972, while from 1973 onwards a 5% annual increase is
projected.
Amortization of Deferred Charges: Cost of consultancy
services for studies amounting to an estimated amount
of FMG 301 million, written off over 8 years; i.e.
FMG 40 million annually starting from 1975.
Depreciation: Calculated annually to include all addi-
tions as from either the middle of the year or the
beginning of the year following the year of acquisition
or completion. The rates are based on the straight-line
method generally over the following years of useful life
(including additions under the project):
Buildings: 50 years
Way and Works: 30 years
Motive Power and Rolling Stock:
- Locomotives: 25 years
- Wagons      : 40 years
Equipment and Tools: 10 years
Other Assets: 10 years
Land is not depreciated



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Interest: The project loan would bear interest at 7-1/4% p.a.
=  w W_. je repayable in appro inately equal seui-annual installiunte
23 years including a 3-1/2 year grace period.
1rnterest on the proposed loan and interest on RNCFM's existing
and projected borrowings are treated as current non-operating expenses
and included in the Income Statement.
4.    Accounts Receivable:  Forecasts are calculated on the assumption that
approximately two months' operating revenues each year would be out-
standing at the end of the year.
5. Accounts Payable: Forecasts are calculated on the assumption that approxi-
mately two months' cash operating expenses (excluding personnel costs)
of a given year plus a portion of capital expenditures would remaih unsettled
at the end of that year.
6.    Borrowings:  In addition to the borrowings discussed in the text, it is
assumed that RNCFM to meet its obligations in 1974 will have to borrow
F1M0 230 million from the Government on a short tern basis to be paid back in
1975.
December 26, 1973



MADAGASCAR
RAILWAY PROJECT
Railwa  Manpower, Productivity and Wages
Index 1972
1967        1968        1969        1970        1971        1972        1967 = 100
Total staff at beginning of year         4,398        4,845       4,783       5,086       5,215       5,292
Total staff at end of year               4,845        4,783       5,086       5,215       5,292       5,439
Total staff average for year          4,622        4,814       4,935       5,150       5,254       5,365           116
Total train-kn ('000)                     2,885       3,075       3,123       3,258       3,224       3,053           106
Freight net ton-km (million)                178         218         241         289         308         258            145
Passenger-km (million)                      173         181         175         182         200         192           111
Total traffic units (million)           351         399          416         471         508         450           128
Enployees per 1,000 train-km                 1.60         1.57        1.58        1.58        1.63        1.76        110`
Traffic units per employee               75,94i      82,833      84,296      91,456      96,688      83,877            110
Labor costs (FMG million)                 1,253       1,243       1,229       1,249       1,277       1,337           107
Average cost per emnployee:
per annum (FMG)                     271,094      258,205     249,037     242,524     243,052     249,208             92
per month (FMG)                       22,591      21,517      20,753      20,210      20,254      20,767             92
per month (US$ equivalent)              105.1        100.1        96.5        94.0        94.2        96.6          92
Average labor cost per traffic
unit (EMG)                                 3.59        3.11        2.96        2.65        2.51        2.97          83
.Source:  RNCFM, February and November 1973
December  26, 1973                                                                                                          H



TAX.E 2
NADAGIASCAN
RArILWAY PROJECT
Selected Railwmy Opersting Statisties
Index 1972
1967          1968           1969          1970          171            1972        1967 = 100
I.   Bystei
Locomotives in fleet                                      29             32            32             32           31             31             107
Raile"rs in fleet                                         21             19            19             17           16             15              71
Freight wagons in fleet                                  773            846           881            912          948            970            125
Passenger cars in fleet                                   96             96           102             93           90             84              88
Total staff                                            4,622         4,814          4,935          5,150        5,254          5,365            119
II. Trsaffic
Freight, net tons (000)                                  627            736           785            900          950            809            129
Psssenger (000)                                        2,307          2,294         2,099          2,365        2,586          2,586             112
Freight, net ton km (million)                            178            218           241            289          308            258            145
Passenger km (million)                                   173            181           175            182          200            192             Uli
Traffie units (million)                                  351            399           416            471          508            450            128
Average freight haul, 1m                                 297            310           321            331          335            328            110
Average passenger journey, km                             75.5           78.9          83.1           77,1         77.3           74.1            98
Total grosa ton-km (million)                             545           639            673            740          773            686            126
III. Draffic Density
Pasaenger-km per route-km (000)                          200            209           198            206          226            217             109
Freight net ton per route-km (000)                       205            252           272            326          348            292            142
Total groas ton-km per route-km  (000)                   630            739           761           837           874            m              123
IV. Operations
Train-km, freight (000)                                1,358         1,501          1,551         1,680         1,543         1,388             102
Train-km, passengers (000)                             1,527         1,574          1,572         1,578         1,681          1,665            109
Train-km, total (000)                                  2,885         3,075          3,123         3,258         3,224         3,053             106
Engine-km, locomotives (000)                           2,227         2,311          2,737         2,669         2,622          2,432            109
Engine-km, railcars (000)                              1,078         1,181          1,200         L,268         1,399          1,386            129
Freight wagon-km (million)                                19.1           22.1          23.4           24.6         25.2           21.2          111
Loaded freight wagons forwarded                       42,881        59,760         52,758         59,406       54,o48         49,681            116
Passenger car-km (railcars included) (million)             5.6            5.7           6.1            6.1          6.8            7.1          127
V. Operating Efficiency
Average freight train load net tons                      131            145           155            172          200            186            142
Average number of rreight wagons per freight
train                                                  14.0          14.7           15.1          14.6          16.3          15.3           109
Average number of passengers per passenger
train                                                 113           115            111           115           119           115             102
Engine-km per engine-day, locomotives                    210           198            234           229           232            215            102
Net ton-km per freight wagon in fleet (000)              230            258           274            317          325            266            116
Average load of frdight wsgona, tons                      14.6           12.3          14.9           17.9         17.6           16.3          112
Average turn-around time for freight wagons (days)         6.2            4.9           5.7            5.4          6.1            6.9          111
Passenger-km per passenger car in fleet
(railcars included) (000)                            148            157           145            165           189           194             131
Punetuality (% of passenger trains srrived at
end station 15 minutes or laIs delayed)                63            65             64            68            61            62              98
VI. Availability of motive pawer and rolling stock
Locomotives                                               95            95             96            96            96             96            101
Railîcrs                                                  98            99             99            98            99            98             101
Freight wagons                                           n.a.           92             96            96            96            96             n.a.
Pâssenger cars                                           n.a.           94             96             97           96             95            n.a.
VI!, Derailments
On line                                                   12            13             21            32            29             29            241
In yards                                                   7            13             32            38            32             26            371
TDtal                                                     23            26             53            70            61             55            239
1/ Includes time in running sheds.
Source:  RNCFM, February aad November 1973
December 26,1973



MPDAGASCAR
RAITWAY PROJECT
Railway Average Revenues for Selec-bed Commodities and Passengers Ll 971)
Average Revenue
per ton-km         Total Revenue
Commodities                                        (FMG)             (FMG millions)        Cumulative
1. Petroleum Products                                  12.05                   595.0            -       25.0
2. Rice                                                 6.43                   251.8           846.8    35.6
3.  Cement                                              7.65                   154.0         1,000.8    42.1
4.  Chromite                                            2.98                   153.1        1,153.9    48.5
5. Food Products                                       12.21                   119.6         1, 273.5    53.6
o.  Empty Boxes, Bottles, etc.                          2.80                   100.7         1,374.2    57.8
7. Industrial Products and Vehicles                    12.95                   100.1         1,474.3    62.0
8. Steel                                               12.99                    85.0         1,559.3    65.6
9.  Textiles                                           12.57                    53.2         1,612,5    67.8
100  Chemaical Products                                 13.97                    50.8         1,663.3    70.0
11. Vegetables and Fruits                                9.63                    48.3         1,711.6    72.0
Other                                              10.52                   o65.4         2,377.0   100.0
Grand Total                                         8.11                 2,377.0            -         _
Passenger
lst Class                                         4.40                    54.9                    11.0
2nd Class                                         2.34                   444.1                    89.0
Total                                             2.47                   499.0                   100.0
Source: RNCFM, February 1973.
Deceniber 26, 1973



MIJAD!GASc R
8I\ IY P ROJEa.r
Railway Costs and Revenues Per Line (1971)
TANANARIVE-TAMATAVE        MORAMANGA-LAC          TANANARIVE-ANTSIRABE    'J ANA.FLkNT&IA--ANTSIRAI'i
FREIGR                                  LINE                 ALAOTRA UINE                   LINE                      L1NIE
(FMG PER TO-N-KM)               AVERAGE    MARGINAL       AVERAGE   MARGINAL       AVERAGE    MARGINAL         AVERAGE   MARGINAL
OPERATING COSTS                   4.02        1.68          5.50       2.38         8.26         3.48          14.45        4.67
DEPRECIATION LOCOHOTIVES          0.35        0.38          0.37       0.37         0.37         0.28           1.05        1.05
DEPRECIATION WAGONS               0.29 v      0.27          0.38       0.38         0.47         0.47           0.87        0.87
SUB TOTAL                     4.66        2.31         6.25        3.13         9.11         4.33          16.36       6.59
DEPRECIATION OTHER FIIED ASSETS  0.89          -           1.07         -           1.55          -             4.44         -
INTEREST                          0.13         -            0.14        -           0.14          -             0.15         -
GRAND TOTAL COSTS            5.68        2.31         7.46        3.13        10.80         4.33          20.95        6.59
PASSENGERS
(FIG PER PASS-KM)
OPERATING COSTS                   2.71        1.41          2.86       1.22         3.23         1.18           3.17        0.80
DEPRECIATION LOCOMDTIVES          0.22        0.22          0.28       0.28          0.26        0.28           0.20        0.20
DEPRECIATION WAGONS               0.17        0.17          0.13       0.13          0.14        0.14           0.06        0.06
SUB-TOTAL                   3.09         1.79         3.27        1.63         3.65         1.60           3.42  >    1.05
DEPRECIATION OTHER FIXED ASSETS  0.32          -            0.46        -            0.65         -             1.09         -
INTEREST                          0.05         -            o.o6        -            o.o6         -             0.04         -
GRAND TOTAL COSTS            3.46        1.79         3.79        1.63         4.36         1.60           4.55        1.05
AVERAGE REVENUE FREIGHT      9.73         -           4.16         -           6.12          -            10.16         -
AVERAGE REVENUE pASSENGER   2.56          -           2.72         -           1.96          -             2.87
Source:  RNCFM  Prix de Revient Moyen et Marginaux, and
Activité du Service d'Exploitation (1971).
Deceiber 26, 1973



TAB1LE 
MADAGASCAR
RAILWAY PROJECT
Railway Commercial Traffic summarl
AVERAGE DISTANCES
PER TRAFFIC UNIT
GOODS TRAFFIC            PASSENGER TRAFFIC               (km)
tons       ton-km        numbers   pass-kms
(OOOs)   (millions)        (000)     (millions)     goods    passengers
1961        482.3      129.2         1,971.3       133.8       267.9        67.9
1962        557.2      157.6         2,062.4       136.8       282.8        66.3
1963        538.0      150.4         2,090.1       147.9       279.6        70.7
1964        540.1      153.1         2,175.8       149.6       283.5        68.8
1965        540.7      157.0         2,133.5       148.9       290.4        70.0
1966       506.8       148.3         1,960.6       151.3       292.6        77.2
1967        572.2      169.3         2,307.0       172.8       295.9        74.9
1968        663.7      205.6         2,294.3       181.0       309.8        78.9
1969        714.2      229.1         2,099.0       174.5       320.8        83.1
1970        834.6      276.1         2,365.2       182.4       330.8        77.1
1971        888.2      297.5         2,586.3       200.0       334.9        77.3
1972-/      758.6      248.1         2,5&6.5       191.8       327.8        74.1
19733/      440.3      132.3         1,618.0       111.4       n.a.         n.a.
ANNUAL AVERAGE G(ROWTH
1961-1971     6.3%       8.4%            2.8%        4.1%        2.2%        1.3%
1967-1971    11.6%      15.1%            2.9%        3.7%        3.1%         -8%
1971-1972   -14.6%     -16.6%            0.0%       -4.1%       -2.1%       -4.3%
1/ Eccluding earth transported for short distances during 1967, 68 and 69 and
service traffie.
2/  Traffic drop partly due to political disturbances and closure of Port of Tamatave
in December 1972.
3/ January - July, 1973.
Source: RNCFM annual reports and monthly statistics, June, 1973
December 26, 1973



IAWWCARC
rrtiht Qd  ^ssnRe Trfiet96.892 n    -oect 1973.1977
4vgR^0^3 AMAUL 5m a    S
1967                  196B       1964       1970                  1971                 1972 1/      1971       127h       l97%        1'7 M7                           _-                        W-0
I/  ngm11E  =                 D           lm    *7.D .           7171S    Tous        lm         TS   7TM    N.DI5T.  e7DS                   muSS       R ns TM    7 3    5s V. S          TM          m    1.9
).M       -(WIEllC              c .00o)    £M          £,OD       Lox «Q&    (X )   (Itl)          L&MI  (ÉM    .oso)  (    .QMi  (               M           :XO   (h)  J»
Cam                                  26        34         9.5          30        33         43          43       374       16.1          22         2a         31          43         46         ,0      36(       j95°            13 4
s-                                   1t       3677       b8            17t       19         20          14       371        5.26        10           9         1o         il         1l2        123      37'       49              6s2',6
C S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 26 38                                            a          9           S       377        3.4          80 89                             l11                   12      380       4.6             10.7           10.7
7aWS. IWD. AID QII:U lm               O       3tS        3.8           12        12         14         16        36B        6.2         1489                              lo1                    2       390       4712.5                        io 
5EIL                                  5       367         1.8           6         4          4t          9       377        3.4          10          9         1o          10         10         10      3BC       3.8            1S.S             2,
COàrIISS-                                                                         -          -           S       3BB        3.5           9          9         il          13         15         17      390       6.6              .             l.2
UC8                        ~~~~~~~~~~~72  3B83  2t 6         82         B4         Bg         777      3BS        27t°         40          41         45         50          51°       552     36650     20.0                            6 5
LMOU                           139       376       52.3          171       iBO        203         207       3t.       7B.S         129        171        192         216        227        239      384      91.B a           10              8.7
mom   MMCTF S  V                     S2       359       33.0          los       104        116         131       377       4S.4         13B        120        132         145        159        174      385      67.0             S 2             9.7
TOTALi                         231       370       B5.3          Rns       2t4        319         338       3BO      12B.3         267        291        324         36i        386        413      385     158.6             10.0            9.1
UCF                                  35       355        12.5         la         31         29          25       376        S.4           p          3          3           4          4          5      375        1.9           'S.0            13.6
MMlllSCW                             21       236         S.o          20        30         13          16       331        5.3          14         10         il          12         13         14      345        4,6           -7 0             8.8
M-SD LL                         56       313        17.5          63        61         42         hi        359       74.7          22         13         14          16         17         19      353       6.4o                            9.9
commnl                                -                    -                     85        136         131       »92       51.3         110        123        170         170        170        170      392      66.c               ,             B,
TOTA                        56        313       1t.5          63       146         17B        172       3B4       66.o         132        136         1B4        166        1B7        1B9      388       73.3            32,0            *.S
UCs                        ~~~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~41  239  9.8        le         38         69         66       2S4        19.4         75          46         5B         70          62        94       295       27,7           12.6           19.6
D" IS, woN , M0.                     57       361        20 6-         se        67         74         t76       3t7       33.2          66         90         99         109        1.14       120      3BC        4S.6           11.5            7.s
eiCoL  &  O Dav                      37        7C         2 6          46        31         31          32        7B        2.5          28         30          33         36         36         3t,      Bo         2.9          -3.7             4.7
vamm     à SST                       21       229        4.ô           20        23         20          23       217        S.O          14         24         26          29         30         31      2)30       6.8             2.3            6.6
OlXum                                il       191        2.1           il        il         1 2         13       162        2.1          10          7          3           9          5         7>0     180        1.6             4.3            S.3
tOum                                  9        122        1.1           9        il         13          10       100        1.0          1o          4          4           5          6          6      100         0.6            2.7           10.7
vDO                                   3        133        0.4           7        10         10          13       177        2.3          17         15          16         1B         19         20      18C         3.6          44.o             7.s
i06       230       24.4         122        S4         109        133       278       37.0         118        127         140        154        162        170      2B5        48.5            5-°            7.5
IOA   Ul                       235       231       65.8          322       2B5        33t        378        271      102.5         357        343        384         430        458        487      2B2      137,5             7.1            9.2
ns/                    572                           295       168.6         664       715   B     35    B su           334      296.8         759        770        892         977       1029       10689     339       369.6           11.6            9.1
-am         rsoDo          ss  1 80          283      135.6          556       611        719         757       327      247.4         621        650        760         832        870        915      331       302,6           12.0            8,9
ECDU       PIaMst   P2VdS)         8         283      135.6         556       526        SB3         626       313      196.1         511        527         590        662        720        745      31t       236,0o          6.S             9.0
V/B U-&                                    55        169        9.3          73        71         66          61       1B4       11.2          51         65          67         68         70         72      igo        13.7           2.6             2.6
vz   &£LL                                  602         24       14.3         692       327           -          -        -          -            -          - ,-------
éVu    MDM   L       0   n                 ,l'm        156      192.2       1,429     1,113        9o1         94S       325      301.0         810        835         9»9       eC5        1099       1161      330       383.3             -             8.6
1ELMID àAm  Au  )aka                 535       27   144.S              629       6B2        7ff    B     18       316      258.6'        672        715        827   Sxo              940        987      321       316.3          11.2             8.4
10   I*.Dms. ?3-xlm         BD.         0O.        110.        1O.    AV.DST. rs7sM                                                                          *P.DSS.
"Il/ £PUm                                  Gcm  ho)     (90)    (Mli)        ( OWO)     ( OWO)     ( * )       (.Ol30)    (,7     (Mil)           M.        3o.        IiO.       bO.         110.      PD.       (KN)    (MU1)
ILCla       3/                   2.307       75        172.B      2,294      2,099      2,365       2,5B6       77      200.0      2,5B6       2,780       2,863      2,949      3,038      3.129       72       225-0 MD.        2.7           3.0
1/    P"    ,i7  trofî drOp parfi due to Polttul disuacst *n clorr  et Port of  *omtae ln Decomber 1972.
2S     zwnd   a _ri  _m    or loca t;r trr.
3/     nret md amd   cl, bo_rw, nr t clw p                  ,g   accott tor le» tb n 4  of total passangr traffic.
iource:  1967-lS72 ROM, tebtuary 1973
1973-7S77 RQH and Itimaio, 7ev_ber 1973
Dec_ber .26,1973 [



MADAGASCAR
RAILWAY PROJECT
Raillay Coimnercial Traffic Fer Originating LineV/
FREIGoIT TRAFFIC
TANANARIVE-          MORAMANGA-            TANANARIVE-       FIANARANTSOA                  2/
TAMATAVE            LAC ALAOTRA            ANrIRABE            MANAKARA              TOTAI
T.C.E. LINE          M.L.A. LINE            T.A. LINE          F.C.E. LINE           ALL LINES
Tfons    Ton-Nm  _Tons        on-Y«      Tons     Ton-Km      Tons     Ton-Km      Tons     Ton-Km
(oos)    (mils)      (         (mils)    (oOs)    (mils)    (OO,s)    (m4ils) ,(2Os)    (MilS)
1967     386.6    124.5      95.1      27.5       39.4     10.0        51.5        7.4      572.6    169.4
1968     461.3    151.6     107.7    33.1         46.1     13.4        55.6        7.5      670.7    205.6
1969     456.3   152.3        82.1    25.0        37.4      11.1       51.3        7.0      712.2    228.7
1970     492.6   166.6      248.0      90.7       38.7     11.1        55.4        7.4      834.7    276.2
1971     556.3    191.3     232.0    83.4         46.6     15.3        53.4        7.1      888.3    297.1
1972     457.1   168.2      201.1      58.9       42.5     13.0        57.9        7.9      758.6    248.0
ANNiJAL AVERAGi GROWTH 67-71     9.5%    11.3%      25.0%    32.0I/    4.3%    11.3%           0.9%     -1.0,%      11.6%    15.1%
AiUJAL AVERAGE GROWTH 71-72    -17.8%  -12.0%    -13.3%   -29.4%        -8.8%   -15.0%        8.4%      11.3%     -14.6%   -16.5%
PAs1ïNGER TRAFFIdV
Pass.     Pass-Yo  Pass.      Pass-Fn   Pâss.      Pass-Km   Pass.       Pass-}in  Pass.     Pass-Km
,5,J    (MILs)    ,               1       (OOOs)    (MLS)    l           I         (000 s)   ,20
1967     937.2     77.5     396.1      22.2      599.4      49.3      334.o       22.4    2.267.1    171.5
1968     88660     84.3    WIO.0      24,2      572.0      46.7      385.0       24.4    2.253.0    179.6
1969     790,0     84.3     421.0      25.3      453.0      39.3      389.0       24.0    2.053.0    172.9
1970,    964.0     89.5      464.0     26.8      419.0      39.1      462.0       25.3    2,309.0    180.7
1971   1C,0441     96.7      474..6    27,2      515.5      45.7      512.2       28.2    2.546.4    197.8
1972     953.5     84.0     491.5      27.6      538.8      48.4      602e5       31.7    2.586.3    191.7
ANNIJAL AVFYAGE GROWTHI 67-71     2.7%     5.6%      3 7%     5.2%       -3.8%    -1,9%       11,3%      6,0%        2.9%      3.6%
ANN«AL AVERAGE  O0WIz  71-72    -8.7%   -13.1%       3.6%     1.5%        2.6%     5.9%       17.6%     12.4%        1.5%    -3.0%
ifJh l:î>;lu&  onlv tgt- fS-fe odgi  at>~     m staUions <>M     gixe çvenj lùie tinerefoçrî i.n not a mPeasure tf tota1 lune traffic de isity,
F>- inÉt~ie~         4- ~ t   i. .]Xij  not   e 'J  tr T,  E             Pu, jlw:Ny  servin cjZt   fi,.e roit ine ufked
.7        to                                                                              wfiffer r Lx  t'1-   XÂl .   w    `)'.t ix T - 5 and 6~
V  Lc^,ge if>ase d-n 10 6   -.fi ç    rn. '   396%
LV  »b ts                  pdio'i     r
SOa'"e'i PX3-)X5 F5, Dr&u.ryr ar5ç N~orsbeer t193                                                                                Lu9
Deceraber 26, 1973



TABLE 8
NAMGASCAR
RAILWAY PROJECT
Railway Investmnt Plan  1973 - 1975
(IFl million)
1973                      1974                       1975                    TOTAL
Local  Fortin  Total   Local  Foreimn  Total   Local  Foreln  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
1.   ITEKS FOR WNICR FINANCINr AhMAtR;ED
A.  WORKS
1.  Realignoent Ambila-Brickaville                     O        O       O      247       297      544      66        0      66      313       297      610
2. Track Reneval                                      15        0       15      15         0       15       0        0        0      30         0       30
3.  Buildings, yards, sidinga, other                  85        0      85       30         a       30       0        0       0      115         0      115
100       0      100      292       297      589     66        0       66      458       297      755
B.  MATERIALS
1.  Locomotives BB-1,200 hp (7)                        5     225      230        6       305      311       0        0       0       il       530      541
2. Rolling Stock
Flat Cars (41)
Tip WaOn (6) )                                           O        O        6       253      259      0        0        0        6       253      259
3.  Pointe and Crossinge (100)                         3       34      37       14       100      114       0        0        0      17       134      151
4.  Miscellaneous                                     22        4       26      32        38       70       0        0        0      54        42       96
30     263      293       58       696      754      0        0        0       88       959   1,047
C   ENGINERING
1.  Study Nsv Line Antsirabé-Fianarantsoa             41      44       85        9          0       9       0        0       0       50        44       94
41      44       85        9          0       9       0       0        0       50        44       94
D. CONTINGENCIES
1.  Physical (10  ron A3)                              9       °        9        3          O       3       O       °        °       12         0       12
2.  Price (77 p. a.)                                   O       O        0       25         70      95       9        0        9      34        70      104
9       O        9       28         70      98      9        O        9       46        70      116
SUB-TOTAL                                       180      307      487      387    ~1063  1.450        75        0       75      642    1.370   2.012
II.  ITMD6 INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
A. WORKS
1.  Track R newvl                                                               53          0      53      77       0       77      130         0      130
2.  Extension of Yards and Siding                                               28          0      28      50        0      50       78         0       78
3.  Buildings and Staff Quarters                                                22          0      22      67        0      67       89         0       89
4. Miscellen oue                                                                 5          0       5      27        0       27      32         0       32
108          0    108    221         0      221     329          0     329
B. MATEIRIALS
Rolling Stock
1.  Box Cars (50)                                                                8        187    195        0        0       0        8       187      195
2.  Passenger Coaches (20)                                                       0          0       0       4     260      264        4       260      264
Track Materilals
3.  Rails Including Snall lfterials (130 km)                                     9        153    162        9     153      162       18       306      324
4.  Steel Slîepers In§luding Fasteninge (16,000)                                 1         25      26       1      25       26        2        50       52
5.  Ballast (20,000 m  )                                                        10          0      10      10       0       10       20         0       20
6.  Miscellaneous laterial and Equipent                                         55         13      68      li       51      68       72        64      136
83       378    461       41      489     530      124       867      991
C.  COWSULTANrS  SERVICES
1.  Xnieans;nt, accounting and Operations                                       15         60      75     20       80      100       35       140      175
2.  Miacellanaous Studiîe                                                        5          0       5       5       0        5       10         0       10
20         60     80      25       80      105      45       140      185
0. CONTI2FNcCIES
1.  Physical (1OZ on A2-4)                                                       6          0       6      14       0       14       20         0       20
2.  Price (7Z p.a.)                                                             15         31      46     40       80      120       55       111      166
21         31     52      54       80      134      75       111      186
SUB-TOTAL                                                                  232        469    701    341       649      990      573    1.118   1.691
TOTAL INVESTHENT PLAN                           180      307      487      619      1.532  2.151    416       649   1.065   1.215    2.488   3.703
Source:  RCFM, Noveber 1973
December 26, 1973



MADAGASCAR
RAILWAY PROJECT
RNCFM - Income Statement
(FMG million)
Reconstructed                              Forecast
For Year Ending December 31          1969    1970    1971    1972          1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
Operating Revenues
Freight                            1,918   2>161   2,352   1,943        1,915   2,195   2,440   2,589   2,764
Passengers and baggage               450      466      506     489         546     562      578     596      613
Reimbursement by Government
for concession £ares                                                             100     103      106      109
Other traffic revenues                 90      78       89      75          72      74       76      78       80
Non-traffic revenues                 188      193     146      159         150     155      160     165      170
CIBA export net revenues                                                            60       90      95      100
Additional revenue frorn tariff
increase                                                                         107      156     165      174
Total         2,646   2898   3,093   2,666         2,683   3t253   3,603   3,794   42010
Operating Expenses
Personnel costs and benefits       1,229   1,223   1,277   1,322        1,300   1,431   1,502   1,577   ],656
Meterials ard supplies                433     858      784     525         570     628      690     760      836
General and administrative           168      194     189      200         200     210      221     232      2144
Depreciation                          386     391      553     600         605     636      717     747      777
Amortization of studies            ____40                                                            40       40
Total         2?216   2,666   2,803   2,647        2,675   2 905   3         3,356   3,553
Net-operating income                 430      232     290       19           8     348     433      438      457
Non-9peratir. Items
Interest charges                       47      59       52      55          81     116      158     172      162
Provision for cyclone damage          137      -        13      -25                 82       50      50       50
Total           184       59      65       55         106     198      208     222      212
Net income                              246     173      225    (36)        (98)     150      225     216      245
Source:   RNCFM, February 1973
Mission estimates, November 1973                                                                              No
December 26, 1973



TABLE 10
MAGASCAR
RAILWAY PROJECT
RNCFM - Cash Zlow Statement
(FhG milion)
Recoonstructed                             Forecast
For Year ending December 31                 1969    1970    1971    1972         1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
Source of Funds
Net operating income                          430     232      290      19           8     348      433     438     457
Add: Depreciation and amortization            386     391      553     600         605     636     757 _ 787        817
Internal cash generation             816      623     843      619        613      984   1,190   1,225   1,274
Borrowings:
prior to 1972                               111     304     192
Advance from Treasury                                                242                 230
USAID                                                                 42        131      644
CCCE/COFACE (France)                                                            225      575
STIPE (Itely)                                                                    44
Proposed IDA Credit                                                                      469     606       43
Sub-total               111      304     192      28>4        )00   1,918     606       43
Total sources        927     927   1,035      903      1,013   2,902   1,796   1,268   1,271
..=st  .s ..s=  .==a.==  ==.S.=
Application of Funds
Capital additïons:
prior to 1972                               613     935     681
1972                                                                 606        191      209
1973 and 1974 (already commtitted)                                              402   1,U4O       75
197>4 and 1975 (proposed project)                                                        615     870
1976 ard 1977                                                                                             600     600
Sub-total                613     935     681      606        593   2,264      9>45    600      600
Studies:
Already comnitted                                                                 85      10
Consultants under proposed project         -        -                                     86      77      43
Sub-total                -               -85                           96      77       43
Debt Service:
Repayment of principal                      128     27>     144      250        359      257     494      265     342
Interest chprges                             47      59      52       55         81      116     158     172      162
Sub-total                175     333     196      305         4Lo     373     652      437     50_4
Other requirements:
Working capitaA (exclud4ng cash)-
increase/ »decrease)                    8    (268)   (149)    160         (106)     38       93     129       80
Reconstruction - cyclone damage             217      90     133        7         25       82      50      50       50
Sub-total                225    (178)    (16)    167          (81)    120     143     179      130
Total Requirenents              1,013   1,090      861   1,078       1,037   2,853   1,817   1,259   1,234
Cash Position
Serplusltdeticiency) - arnual                 (86)   (163)    174    (175)        (24)      49     (21)      9       40
As at December 31                             267     10>     278      103         79      128     107      116     156
Source:   Mission estimates, November 1973
Dbcember 26, 1973



TABLE il
MADAGASCAR
RAILWAY PROJECT
RNCFM Pro Forma Balance Sheet
(FMG million)
Reconstructed                                  Forecast
As at December 31                           1969     1970      1971     1972         1973     1974     1975     1976     1977
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                        267      104      278      103            79      128      107      116      156
Accounts receivable (less provision
for doubtfiul debts)                      4L2       L19     483       486          447      547      60       632      668
Irventory                                   486      501      526       722          758      796      836      878      922
Sub-total             1,195    1,02L    1,287    1,311        _2à1    1,471    1,543    1,626    1,716
Fixed Assets
Land                                      3,450    3,L50    3,15O    3,450         3,'50    3,450    3,150    3,k5O    3,192
Buildings                                 1,583    1,668    1,980    2,003         2,004    2,008    2,12    2,192    2,242
Way and works                             6,717    7,056   19,857   20,177        20,24L   20,751   22,185   22,1!85   22,785
Motive power ard rolling stock            3,680    3,797    7,102    7,262         7,3L4    8,119    8,250    8,k00   8,550
Equipment ard tools                         273      290      788       838          864      988    1,072    1,122    1,172
Other                                       336      362      173       28L          284      28L      284      33L      38L
Construction-in-progress                    343      694         7        7          271    1,055       46       L6       L6
Sub-total            16,382   17,317   33,357   34,021       34,L,61   36,655   37,L29   38,°029  3L,69
Less: Accumulated deprecistion:
Buildings                              20       85   1,515    1,550         1,585    1,620    1,655    1,697    1,7L5
Way and works                         105      166   13,371   13,640        13,910   14,190  1L,525   1L,870   15,225
Motive and rollirg stock              209      421    4,15l    4,388        4,472    4,652    4,747    5,016    5,289
,quiprnent and tools                   52      104      596      638           681      732      793      861      934
Dther                                  -         1       2k       44           64        84      104      127      155
Sub-total                86      777   19,660   22,260       20,712   21,278   21,824   22,571   23,348
Net fixed assets                         15,996   16,5140   13,697   13,761       13,749   15,377   15,605   15l,158 
Deferred Charges
Studeie C ges                               -        -        -        -              85      181      218      221 
TOGAL ASSETS            17,191   17,5&6    1L,9B4   15P0?2      15,118    7 029   17J366 6    :
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Current portion - long-termn debt           27k     1u        250     359           257      k94      265      3L2      313
Accounts peyable and accruals               121      265       358      397          500      600      600      515      515
Sub-total               395      409      608      756          757    1,0S4       865      887     _.58
Non current Liabilities
Long term debt                            1,947    2,012    1,919    1,838         1,981    3,405    3,7L46    3,k4L   3,131
Equity
Capital                                   5,185    5,186   10,798   10,798        10,798   10,798   10,79&   10,798   103,?98
Reserves                                  9,032    9,032      464      455           455      k55      '55      155      ',55
Retained earridngs                          632      925    1,195    1,225         1,127  1_27?    1,502    1,718    y9f-
Sub-total            14,8k9   15,143   12,457   12,708       12,380   12,530   12,755   12,971   13,216
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY             17,191   17,564  1L,984   15,072         15,116   17,029   17,366   17,305   17,208
Source:  RNCFM, February 1973
Mission estimates, November 1973
Decenber 26, 1973



MADAGA SCA R
RAILWAY PROJECT
RNCFM - Financial Ratios
For Year Eridirig or as at Deceinber 31    1969    1970    1971    1972          1973    197>4    1975    1976    1977
Annual rate of return on average net
fixed assets in use %2.7                           1.5     2.0       .1          .05    2.5      2.9      2.8      3.0
OperatA ng ratio                             .8>4     .92      .91     .99        1.0       .89     .88      .88      .88
Times interest earned                       9.1      3.9      5.6      .3          .1      3.0     2.7      2.5      2.8
Debt service coverage                       >4.7     1.9    >4.3      2.0         1.4      2.6     1.8      2.8      2.5
Debt/Eouity -ratio                         12/88   12/88   13/87   13/87         1>4/86   21/79   23/77   21/79   19/81
Source: Mission estimates, November 1973
December 26,1973



MADAGASCAR
RAILWAY PROJECT
R.N.C.F.M. Organization Chart
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
(Ministère de l'Anenagement du
Terr,toire         j
Secretary General
Director General
|  PLANNING
(Service Central de
|la Programmation)
POST &TRNPRS                                                                    ML
TELECOMMUNICATIONS                 PUBLIC WORKS                                                  ASYTRAPTLAY  RAILWAYS
(Direction des Postes et          (Direction des            iDirection des            (Reseau National des Chemins
TDirecomnctiond s Psese          Travaux Publics)               Transports)            de Fer Malagasy. RNCFM)
Telecommunications)                                                                     =      Dirctor
D          E          P           A          R            T           M             E              N            T               S
ADMINISTRATION                 PLANNING                   OPERATION                 MECHAN CAL                      CIVIL                  MEDICO-SOCIAL
ENGINEERING                ENGINEERING                   SERVICES
Personnel Se5r t  1       -m_|Operation                                           CIBA M-intenance-| Social Welfare
~~~~~~~E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aZ1                                                                                        , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Off ice
c                                                      Ic
e IudetControl                               |i",ncing                         Ž    Commercial                     Oparation   -B
.5~~~~~~~~2.
i~ ~  ~       ~ ~~~ r         o as                      Servic                     Instruction       |2        Moiv  Poe             |Signalling  
upisn                                                                                      InsetAccounting  io          MaieTelecommunications|
T a nins                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rolling Stock
Ceeter  Information                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~Maintenance
Railway                                                                           Manuf actauring
Police                                                                            External Works
Local   Local                      Local                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Local Medical
Units  Units                      Units                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Stations
World Bank-7708(R)






MADAGASCAR RAILWAY
FREIGHT TRAFFIC DENSITY (1B71)
(TON-KM PER LINE KM)
~~~1:
-M...LIME
F                      C..EA  LE.    L E
ATSJ NR ME                                            /I
IIORÂANCA                                               P            2~~
~~s..RCs ao...o.aat.0.                                                                                                                      W/,,, -, (






IBRD 10493
Jf   tt  /1   4,6.                             X|d.                           *     ~ ~~~~~~~~~ JULY 197f
VohidiolI R<27                                      AILWAY  PROJECT                               i +3>
TomtSa                        TRANSPORT SYSTEM                          J 
vb°    )t   //  '    ' Rrnil*ts      ~~~~~NOSSI-BE       `/rbioe'_
»@  swg    tolay /| ..... Reiilway Studios Uneleway         Eî       M                  Voeo
TANANARIVj el9774c75770N- /i1/4 ~.......... .. .A..y9. Sr- "U mté u_o.       HeIvi1
fl9rdd;,zA~~~~~~~~~~~~CmbOOOp    /...   _ ~ i nMrtrection Cé  { omplote
/    //          ~~~~~Bituminais Surforioc Roods             Belnm           _7
*2J             /    IY          ------ ~~~~~~~~~Noe Pre.r4sret Roodr A   *        J               Andoapc 
gAr.,be                          (  :/                  sAd %tCdhor Airp4rt ,,        o j5hi                 __              ATtIlhhf
î                                                           vff                                           ------- iz >,fnd,nc0
0,oÀ-v\Xe"nTIluo/N5Erllu~~~~~~                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~ d43      o
X~~~~~1           /              aSb                   gMK  B tlloonnc                        " oDieaalo
A.b.sit,.       ENG     ERINGoerb                          )                             E                              I3E
5r1ir        <S           °0                    K  6   E              bid   Abtndcac2               O  eALr
7 V     -)      v            ~~A kzbV        Ali4oe.fonnrirç
/   <Nt   bctofinondrcha~~~~~~~~r ca  rc   zAmor                                     /7I
/~~~~~,9 \    +o a.kcify Vorik
(1s   /      \                M_                               / ) /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Maq
,o   Jor§éo79    %   *. é_anarta»M;-ib,g              
*2T                                                                          olSro                                                             22,-
}°   °AnSczoobO           Iosy 2                >.    : Wskao          Of         50         10-h be
\                           ohlbe    / Vobipero                          KtŒfTE115~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
{     %           ° ABercete          ~ t    zf                               .e: 
g _ hrt ~~~~~Dauphin at``' 
/ /   ,      -                                           \\_ g/ Mé~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAGA5CAR
n  4rz           -    4i1!>  ;                          #~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



