CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 488 MAG
Project Agreement
(Railway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
RESEAU NATIONAL DES
CHEMINS DE FER MALAGASY
DATED JUNE 27, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 488 MAG
Project Agreement
(Railway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
RESEAU NATIONAL DES
CHEMINS DE FER MALAGASY
DATED JUNE 27, 1974


﻿9
(c)   ARC shall have become unable to pay any of its debts as they mature
or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by ARC or by others whereby
any of the property of ARC shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken, any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ARC or for the
susnfnsion of the operations of ARC.
Section 5.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   The ARC Agreement has been duly executed and delivered on behalf
of ARC and has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed and delivered
on behalf of the Borrower and ARC and has been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   The Project Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by
Rajasthan and has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
action.
(d)   RLDC has been duly established under the laws of Rajasthan with
capitalization, board membership and powers satisfactory to the Bank.
(e)   CAA has been duly established by Rajasthan, with organization, board
membership and powers satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿10
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   That the ARC Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ARC, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of ARC in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ARC,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
ARC in accordance with its terms.
(c)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, Rajasthan and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of Rajasthan in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date September 19, 1974 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary or
Director/Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi
India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of RNCFM
Section 3.01. RNCFM shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain its
financial position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in
accordance with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and railway
practices and under the supervision of experienced and competent management
assisted by qualified and competent staff.
Section 3.02. RNCFM shall at all times take all such action as shall be
necessary on its part to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers and privileges
which are necessary or useful in its operations.
Section 3.03. RNCFM shall at all times operate, maintain, renew and repair
its facilities, equipment and machinery in accordance with appropriate engineering,
railway and management practices.
Section 3.04. RNCFM shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practices.
Section 3.05. (a) In order to assist RNCFM in:
(i)         the improvement of its management, operation, financial and
accounting   policies and   procedures, and    the  appropriate
adjustment of its tariff structure and tariff levels; and
(ii)        the identification of its investment needs, the rationalization of
its services, the refinement of its commercial policy, the further
improvement of its tariff structure and tariff levels, and the
training of its staff,
RNCFM shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   RNCFM shall, after study of the reports and recommendations made
by the consultants referred to in paragraph (a) promptly consult with the
Association regarding the decisions that it proposes to take in the light of such
recommendations and the means of their implementation.
Section 3.06. RNCFM shall carry out the 1973-1975 Investment Plan with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and railway management practices.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. RNCFM      shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. RNCFM shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of RNCFM and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from  time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, RNCFM
shall from  time to time take all such measures (including but not limited to
adjustments of its tariffs and tariff structures) as shall be required to obtain an
annual rate of return of not less than 2.5%   through the fiscal year 1976, and
not less than 3% in the subsequent fiscal years, so as to provide revenues sufficient
to enable RNCFM, out of internally generated funds: (A) to meet debt service
requirements, (B) to maintain adequate working capital, and (C) to make a
reasonable contribution toward investment needs including replacements.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The annual rate of return shall be calculated by relating the
operating income for the year in question to the average of the
value of the net fixed assets of RNCFM in operation at the
beginning and at the end of each year.
(ii)        The term  "value of net fixed assets in operation" shall mean
the gross book value of such assets, less the amount of
accumulated depreciation, both as valued from time to time in
accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of
valuation acceptable to the Association.


﻿7
(iii)       The term "operating income" shall mean the difference between:
(A)   gross operating revenue accruing from RNCFM's services;
and
(B)   the operating and administration expenses, taxes (if any)
and adequate maintenance and depreciation but excluding
interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)        The term   "internally generated funds" means the total of
operating income plus the provision for depreciations.
Section 4.04. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing Section 4.03,
RNCFM shall by a date not later than March 3 1, 1975 or such later date as shall
be agreed to by the Association, in consultation with the Association, make
appropriate changes in tariffs and tariff structures on the basis of the findings
and recommendations of the study referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement
and in accordance with appropriate economic and commercial principles for railway
operations, to ensure that the economic cost of individual services and carriage
of goods and services are covered and the rates of return referred to in Section
4.03 of this Agreement are obtained.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, RNCFM shall
not incur any debt unless the amount of its net cash revenue for its fiscal year
next preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period
ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever amount is the greater, shall
be not less than two times the maximum debt service requirements for any
succeeding fiscal year on all its debt including the debt to be incurred. For the
purposes of this Section:
(a)   "debt" means all debt, except debt incurred in the ordinary course
of business and maturing by its terms less than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred;
(b)   debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan contract or
agreement, on the date and to the extent it is drawn down and outstanding pursuant
to such loan contract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only
to the extent that the underlying debt is outstanding;
(c)   the term  "net cash revenue" means gross operating revenue from all
sources, adjusted to take account of RNCFM's tariffs in effect at the time of the


﻿8
incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect during the entire fiscal
year or twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, less all operating
expenses, including adequate maintenance, taxes, if any, and administrative
expenses, but before provision for depreciation and debt service requirements;
(d)   the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of
amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt; and
(e)   whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in the currency of the Borrower debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such other currency
is obtainable by RNCFM, at the time such valuation is made, for the purposes
of servicing such debt or, if such other currency is not so obtainable, at the rate
of exchange that will be reasonably determined by the Association.
Section 4.06. RNCFM shall introduce, in consultation with the Association,
and thereafter maintain a traffic costing system designed to determine the relevant
costs of the services provided by RNCFM.
Section 4.07. Until the Project shall have been completed, RNCFM shall
not, without the prior approval of the Association, commit itself to any capital
expenditures not required under the 1973-1975 Investment Plan exceeding, together
with any such expenditures by the Borrower, in the aggregate for any fiscal year
of RNCFM an amount of one hundred million Malagasy Francs (FMG 100,000,000)
or relating to any individual capital item estimated to cost forty million Malagasy
Francs (FMG40,000,000) or more.
A RZTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.0 1. The Association and RNCFM shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and RNCFM shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of RNCFM and other matters relating to the purpose of the
Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and RNCFM shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the


﻿11
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Mervyn L. Weiner
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿12
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:
(a)  infrastructure           18,000,000          59%
(b)   on-farm devel-           8,600,000          59%
opment
(2)  Equipment and                  4,400,000
materials under
Parts A through
H, and L of the
Project
(a)   directly                                    100% of foreign
imported                                    expenditures (CIF)
(b)  locally                                      100% of local
manufactured                                expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c)  imported items                               70%
prOcurect locally
(3)  Fertilizer                     6,100,000          100% of foreign
expenditures (CIF)
(4)  Technical assistance             100,0            100% of foreign
and training under                               expenditures
Parts E and K of the
Project
(5)  Interest and other            11,000,000
charges on the Loan
accrued on or before
December 31, 1980
(6)  Unallocated                    3,800,000
TOTAL        52,000,000


﻿11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have cased this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the Dist-ict of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVEIOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
RESEAU NATIONAL DES CHEMINS
DE FER MALAGASY
By /s/ Bernardin Rajonhanes
Authorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
With respect to any contract for equipment and materials:
(a)   Before bids are invited, RNCFM shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders. A period of at least 45 days shall
be allowed for the submission of bids.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, RNCFM shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by RNCFM's
procurement services, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures       7
set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, promptly inform RNCFM
and the Borrower, and state the reasons for such determination and advise RNCFM
of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3(c) of Schedule I
to the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.


