CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 488 MAG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Railway Project)
BETWEEN
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 27, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 488 MAG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Railway Project)
BETWEEN
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 27, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 1974, between MALAGASY REPUBLIC
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower and Part
A by Rgseau National des Chemins de Fer Malagasy (hereinafter called RNCFM)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to RNCFM part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and RNCFM;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development 'Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h);
(c)   the words "the Project Agreement" are added after the words
"Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06;


﻿4
(d)   the words "or the Project Agreement" are added after the words
"Development Credit Agreement" in Section 8.02; and
(e)   the following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' shall have the meaning set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and RNCFM of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and RNCFM pursuant to Section 3.0 1(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "RNC'M" means Rgseau National des Chemins de Fer Malagasy, an
Etablissement Public & Caractere Industriel et Commercial of the Borrower, under
the supervision (tutelle) of the Borrower's Ministere de l'4menagement du Territoire
and Ministire de l'Economie et des Finances, established pursuant to Decree
No. 74-154 of the Borrower, dated May 10, 1974, and including any successor
thereto;
(d)   "Ministry" means the Borrower's Ministre de l'Amenagement du
Territoire;
(e)   "Malagasy Francs" and "FMG" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(f)   "1973-1975 Investment Plan" means RNCFM's investment plan for
the railway's immediate needs during the period 1973-1975, as described in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement and as such Schedule may from time to time be
amended by agreement between the Borrower, the Association and RNCFM.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
April 15, 1984 and ending October 15, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on October 15, i993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/27) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. RNCFM's Directeur GdUnral is designated with respect to Part
A of the Project as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken Under the provisions of Section 2.02
of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project and
shall cause Part A of the Project to be carried out by RNCFM with due diligence


﻿L
6
and efficiency and   in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and railway practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend five million two hundred thousand dollars
($5,200,000) of the proceeds of the Credit to RNCFM under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and RNCFM under terms
and conditions (including, inter alia, an interest rate of seven and one fourth per
cent (7-1/4%) per annum and a repayment period of twenty years including a
grace period of three and one half years) which shall have been approved by the
Association.
(c)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause RNCFM to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable RNCFM to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such perfonnance.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Part
B of the Project, the Borrower shall by a date not later than August 31, 1974
or such later date as shall be agreed to by the Association, employ transportation
consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions (including
terms of reference) satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be furnished to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications and work schedules for
the Project and contract documents for goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and any material modifications or amplifications
thereof, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿7
(b)   The Borrower shall or shall cause RNCFM to: (i) maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Association, promptly to provide RNCFM with funds to complete the execution
of Part A of the Project, should at any time RNCFM's resources prove insufficient
for this purpose.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.0 1. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
on its part to enable RNCFM to comply with the provisions of Sections 4.03
and 4.04 of the Project Agreement including the setting and adjustment of
RNCFM's tariffs.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, after completion of the tariff costing study
made by the consultants referred to in Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement,
consult with the Association and RNCFM regarding the decisions that it proposes
to take in the light of the consultants' recommendations and the means of their
implementation.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
on its part to cause RNCFM to comply with the obligations set forth in Section
4.07 of the Project Agreement and shall limit its own railway investments in the
manner and to the amounts set forth in such section, taking into account any
capital expenditures made by RNCFM pursuant to such section.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:


﻿8
(a)   exchange views through     their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by RNCFM of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of RNCFM and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section a 02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be f,rnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of RNCFM and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance oy either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by RNCFM of its obligations under the
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.


﻿9
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls anl moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   RNCFM    shall have failed to perform  any covenant, agreement or
obligation of RNCFM under the Project Agreement.
(b)   A default shall have occurred in the performance of any covenant,
agreement or obligation on the part of the Borrower or RNCFM under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)   Decree No. 74-154 of May 10, 1974 of the Borrower or any other
legislation or regulation of the Borrower governing the establishment, organization,
powers and operations of RNCFM, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability
of RNCFM to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in
the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of RNCFM or for the
suspension of its operations.
(e)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that RNCFM will be able to perform its obligations unler the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿10
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 7.02 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and RNCFM.
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 7.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
RNCFM have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary cornorate and
governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and RNCFM, respectively, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   RNCFM    shall have entered into a contract satisfactory to the
Association with the consultants referred to in Section 3.05(a)(i) of the Project
Agreement.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, RNCFM, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of RNCFM in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and RNCFM,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
RNCFM in accordance with its terms.


﻿Section 8.03. The date September 30, 1974 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 of this
Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (e) of Section 7.02 of
this Agreement and those of paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 7.03 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre de l'Economie et
des Finances
Tananarive
Malagasy Republic
Cable address:
MINECOFIN
Tananarive
For the Association:
International Development Asse iation
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿12
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
By /s / Bernardin Rajonhanes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of tiie Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Rolling Stock                2,100,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
II.  Track Material                1,700,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
111.  Miscellaneous                 300,000           100% of foreign
Material and                                     expenditures
Equipment
IV.  Consultants'                   600,000           100% of foreign
Services to                                     expenditures
RNCFM
V.   Consultants'                   700,000           100% of foreign
Services to                                     expenditures
Ministry
VI.  Unallocated                    600,000
TOTAL        6,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term    "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and
in the currency, of any country other than the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to    the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category IV on account of expenditures


﻿14
incurred after January 1, 1974 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $100,000; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of part of RNCFM's 1973-1975 Investment Plan, and
the provision of technical assistance to the Ministry on transport planning and
coordination. The purposes of the Project are to carry on the physical rehabilitation
of RNCFM's equipment, to improve its management, operations and finances, and
to improve coordination of the Borrower's policies in the transport sector. The
Project includes the following Parts:
A.   RNCFM Investments
1.   Track Renewal
Relaying of about 60 km of track on the line between Tananarive
and Tamatave and about 10 km of track in the Managareza yard in Tamatave,
including installation of points and crossings.
2.   Other Works
(a)   Extension of yards and sidings in Tananarive, Brickaville and
Moramanga.
(b)   Completion of a load adjustment track in Tamatave.
(c)   Construction of staff quarters and of medical stations in
Tamatave, Fianarantsoa, Andasibe and Anivorane.
3.   Rolling Stock
Acquisition and putting into service of 50 covered freight wagons and
of 20 passenger coaches.
4.    Track Material
Acquisition of about 130 km of 36 kg/m rails, 16,000 steel sleepers
and 20,000 m3 of ballast.
5.   Miscellaneous Material and Equipment
Acquisition and putting into use of one ballast tamping machine, one
set of automatic barriers, one crane and road construction and timber
handling equipment.


﻿16
6.    Technical Assistance and Training
Employment of consultants to review, recommend and assist in
implementing new management, operation and accounting systems and
procedures; to prepare a long-term investment plan and to undertake
on-the-job training of key personnel.
B.    Technical Assistance and Training to Ministry (Transport Planning and
Coordination Assistance)
Employment of a consulting firm to assist the Ministry to perform
the following functions:
(1)   planning, reviewing and coordinating transport studies,
(2)   formulating policy regarding transport pricing and coordination;
(3)   preparing coordinated sectorial investment plans;
(4)   undertaking specific studies such as the preparation of a plan
for the development of secondary or penetration roads and the
development of an integrated transport system:
(5)   on-the-job training of Malagasy nationals in transport planning;
and
(6)   coordinating intersectoral matters with the Borrower's Direction
du Plan.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
1973-1975 Investment Plan
The Investment Plan to be implemented during the period 1973-1975 is
estimated to require an expenditure of about FMG3,703 billion, including
contingencies. The main components of the Investment Plan and the annual
expenditures therefor are:
1973       1974       1975
- FMG million -
A.    WORKS
1.   Realignment Ambila-
Brickaville                                      -       544         66
2.   Track renewal                                   15         68        77
3.   Extension of yards
and sidings                                     34        46         50
4.   Buildings and staff
quarters                                        38        26         67
5.   Miscellaneous                                   13         13        27
100        697       287
B.   MATERIALS
Track Materials
1.   Rails  incl. small
materials                130 kn                  -       162        162
2.   Steel sleepers
incl. fastenings        16,000 Nos.              -        26         26
3.   Points and crossing        100 Nos.             37        114          -
4.   Ballast                20,000 m3                  -        10         10
Locomo tives
5.   BB, 1200 Hp incl.
spare parts                  7 Nos.           230        311           -


﻿18
1973      1974       1975
- FMG million -
Rolling Stock
6.   Flat Cars and
Tip Wagons                47 Nos.              -       259          -
7.   Box Cars                   50 Nos.                     195          -
8.   Passenger Coaches          20 Nos.             -          -       264
9.   Miscellaneous
material and
equipment                                     26       138        68
293      1,215       530
C. CONSULTANTS' SER VICES
1.   Management, account-
ing, operation                                 -        75        100
2.   New line Antsirabe -
Fianarantsoa                                  85         9          -
3.   Miscellaneous                                  -         5          5
85        89        105
D.   TOTAL                                             478      2,001       922
E.   CONTINGENCIES
1.   Physical (10% on
A 3-5)                                         9         9         14
2.   Price (7% per year)                             -      141        129
F.   GRAND TOTAL                                       487      2,151     1,065


