Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                        Report No. 10644
Report NO. 10644-BD   Type:  (PCR)
MAUPRIVtZ,/ X31709 / T9 069/ OEDD3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1321-BD)
MAY 7, 1992
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30
Currency Equivalents
Rates Used in Appraisal Report
US$ 1 - Taka 22.0
SDR 1 - US$ 1.077
Current Rates
USS 1 - Taka 39.0
SDR 1 - US$ 1.36
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIQNS AND ACPONYMS USED
DEL         - Direct Exchange Line
GOB         - Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
HF          - High Frequency
MOPT        - Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications
OECF        - Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PCO         - Public Call Office
PCM         - Pulse Code Modulation
Tk          - Taka
TTB         - Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board
UHF         - Ultra High Frequency
UNDP        - United Nations Development Program
VHF         - Very High Frequency



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washaington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oiyice of DirectoeCcwral
Opefatian Evakullim
May17, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on BANGLADESH
Third Telecommnunications Proiect (Credit 1321-BD)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Bangladesh - Third Telecommunications Project
(Credit 1321-BD" prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT (CREDIT 1321-BD)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE    . . . . . . . . .... .      . . . . .. ......... .   *.   .
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . l . . . . . . 
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . .o . .            1
1.  Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . .
2.  Background  . . . . . . .  . . .  . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .  .           2
3.  Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . .               2
- Project Objectives . . . . . .               .              . .
- Project Description . . . . . . . a  . . . . . . . . . . . .             2
4.  Project Design and Organization  .   . . .  . . . . .   . . . .            3
5.  Project Implementation . . . ... . .  . .   . . . . . . .   . . .          4
-  Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up . . .   . . . .              4
-  Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              4
-  Procurement . . . . . . . . . . 5  . . . . . . .            .          5
-  Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .           .             6
-Disbursements  6 . . . . o .      . . .   . . .   .                   6
5Credit Allocation......                                               6
6.  Project Results  . . .         .      .  .  .  . .   . . .  .  ..   . . .  6
-  Project Objectives  . . .  . . .            .        .   .             6
-  Physical Results  . . . .  .            .  . . .   .       .           6
-  Technical Assistance  . . .       ....  .  .                           7
-  Financial Performanceforanc...               . ......                  7
-  Economic Rate of Returno  .      .     .....   .....                   7
-  Institutional Impact  ..................                               7
7.  Project Sustainability . . .        o . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        8
8.  IDA's Performance  . . . .    . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .               8
9.  Borrower Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .    .           9
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance|
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT.)                                           Page No
10.  Project Relationship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     9
11. Consulting Services  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9
12.  Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     10
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . .      11
Borrower's Perspective of the Design, 'mplementation and
Development Impact of the Project  . . . . . . . . . .     11
PART III. STATISTICAL INTORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . .          16
I.  Related Bank Credits  .. ...  .  ..  ..................         16
2.  Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      17
3.  A. Credit Disbursements .. . . ................                  18
B  Credtt Allocation . . . . . .  . .    . . . . . . . . .      19
4.  Completion Dates  .........             .......         .       20
5.  Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . ... . . -      .*  *     22
A. Project Costs   . . . . .  . . . .   . . *         * *       22
B. Project Financing          . . .         . . . . . . .       23
6.  Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . * .      24
A. Direct Benefits..........                                    23
B.    Studies G  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . a  .  .  .  .  .  .  23
C. Economic Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .    24
7. Status of Covenants . . . . .  . ... .  . . . . . . . . . . .  .  27
8.  Missions  . . . . . . . . . .                                    25
ANNEXES
1.  'T&f' Historical Financial Statements and Performance Indicators showing
comparison between appraisal estimates and actuals.
2.  Borrower's and TTB's comments on the Project Completion Report.



PROJECT COMPIuETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT (CREDIT 1321-BD)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third
Telecommunications Project in Bangladesh, for which Credit 1321-BD in the amount
of SDR 32.5 million was approved on January 25, 1983. In October 1989 IDA's
Board approved amendment to project scope and reallocation of the IDA credit.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1991, three years behind schedule. The last
disbursement was made on October 16, 1991 and the undisbursed balance of about
SDR5.6 million was canceled.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Energy and Infrastructure
Operations Division, Department 1, South Asia Region and Industry and Finance
Division, Technical Department, Asia Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts
I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).  Preparation of the PCR is based on
information in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Development Credit
Agreement, supervision reports and correspondence between IDA and the Borrower
and the Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board (TTB) and internal Bank
memoranda.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT (CREDIT 1321-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectivee
(i)      The project's main objectives were to:  (a) improve the quality of
telecommunications services and increase access; (b) improve 'TB's institutional
capacity; and (c) facilitate the trarafer of know-how and introduction of modern
electronic technology in the nationa.L telecommunications system.
Imnlementation Exoerience
(ii)     The project was originally scheduled to be completed by March 31, 1987.
It was substantially cc2pleted by December 31, 1991, a delay of over four and a
half years from the original scheduled completion date. This was mainly due to:
(a)  the Government's indecision with regard to the use of bilateral funds
rather than IDA funds for telephone switching equipment, a major
component of the IDA financed project; it took the Government about
three years to resolve this issue;
(b) major delays in bid document preparation, bid evaluations and contract
awards; on average, it took over one year between receipt of bids and
obtaining the Government approval of contract avards, because of
extremely protracted procedures in review and contract award approval;
(c) weakness in TTB's planning and development directorate, especially in
its capability for effectively preparing ana coordinating all steps
essential for successful project implementation;
(d)  delay in hiring the technical consultants required for the project due
to the Government policy of seeking and using grant funds for the
technical assistance before approving the use of IDA funds; and
(e)  delay in completing the training component with a lag of about three
years.
(iii)    The actual project cost was higher than appraisal estimates due to the
much larger local telephone exchange capacity installed than originally planned
and the provision of related expansion of the complementary network to utilize
the additional capacity.
(iv)     The credit was closed on June 30, 1991 after three one-year extensions.
Disbursement lagged about three years behind the original schedule.



- iii -
Pgoiect Result.
(v)       Even with three one-year extensions of the ^redit closing date, the
project objectives, particularly institutional development, were not fully met,
especially implementation of the covercial accounting system, improvement of
operations and maintenance and program planning and implementation.
(vi)      Though with delays,  the project's physical results were largely
exceeded. Digital switching system, which was originally planned under IDA
funds, was introduced in the nationpl network with bilateral financing. The
switching capacity added both from bi-lateral and Government funds was much
higher than originally plo,' ed but it was still below the unmet demand for
service. IDA funds we-re reallocated to finance the complementary networks for
effective utilization of the additional switching capacity.   TTB s overall
financial performance has been satisfactory, and the estimated economic rate of
return of 21S is comparable to the appraisal estimate of 242.
Proiect Sustainabilitv
(vii)     The modernization of the network achieved by digitalization in this
project will help to achieve greater efficiency and to improve quality of
service.  The physical investments under the project improved the access to
telephone service. The technical assistance and training provided under the IDA
and bi-lateral funds ensures that TTB has sufficient operations and maintenance
capacity so that the benefits from the installed facilities will be sustainable.
In contrast, the institutional improvements under the project were limited with
most of the institutional objectives not being met and thus TTB is not much
stronger than at the start of the project.
Findints and Lessons Learned
(viii)    The main lesson learned from this operation is that for accelerated
future sector development, it is important to overcome the following factors:
(a) lack of clearly articulated government policy, effective regulation and
supervision; (b) TmB's status as a government board with inadequate autonomy to
operate on a commercial basis; and (c) management constraints compounded by
inefficiencies within TTB; and (d) lack of adequate human resource skills. In
the context of this project IDA initiated a dialogue with the Government and TTB
on the need for sector reform to address the above issues. As a result, the
Government has agreed to review strategic options to ensure sustained and
efficient development of this sector; the Government's commitment to adopt
fundamental reforms however remains to be seen.
(lX)      Other major lessons learned are that the following should have been
addressed as part of the project preparation:
(a) creation of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to ensure timely
implementation;
(b)  coordination with bilateral agencies to avoid duplication oL efforts
and optimize resource utilization;



(o)  Government'a prior commitment to allccate adequate local funds needed
for project components to be made condition of credit processing;
(d) advance procurement action for all major project cpmponents and
appointment of consultants to be made conditions of credit
effectivenessi and
(e) all major project components to be executed on a turnkey basis, with
suppliers being made responsible for supply and installation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT (CREDIT 1321-BD)
DART I: Proiact Review from Bank's Perspective
1.  Project Identity
Namne          :Third Telecommunications Project
Credit Number  : 1321-BD
RVP Unit       : South Asia
Country        : Bangladesh
Sector            Infrastructure
2. Backergund
2.1       The telecommunications rector in Bangladesh is comprised of the
Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board (TTB), a small telecommunications
industry consisting of two companie" owned jointly by the Government (921) and
Siemens A.G. of the Federal Republic of Germany (8X) which manufacture
telecommunications equipment and cables, and TTB's "telegraph workshop; which
produces tubular steel poles and local cable network materials. The
telecommunications sector is under the -ontrol of the Ministry of Post and
Telecommunications (MOPT).
2.2       TTB was established as an independent corporation in 1976 to provide
it with greater fiscal and administrative autonomy, but reverted to a
Government Board within MOPT in 1979. TTB is closely controlled by MOPT and
has little scope for autonomous decision-making. TTB operates all public
telecommunications servic.as within Bangladesh and to other countries, as well
as specialized services such as maritime radio and transmission facilitieu for
the Bangladesh Broadcasting and Television Department (BTV), Bangladesh
Railways, Civil Aviation and other Government agencies. TTB also licenses all
independent private networks. TTB is managed by a Board of Directors
consisting of a Chairman and Board Members.  The Chairman and the Board
members are appointed by the Government. Ail revenue goes directly to the
Government, which provides TTB with annual budgetary allocations. The
accounting function is under the control of the Comptroller and Auditor
General (CAG) which proved to be a major impediment towards the efforts under
the project to implement a commercial accounting system in TTB. The primary
accounting system used is still the Government's single entry cash-based
accounting system.
2.3       Since 1972 IDA has provided assistance for development of the
telecommunications sector in Bangladesh through the financing of three
projects and through sub-components of other projects, as indicated in Table



-2-
1, Part III. The First and Second Telecommuni.eations Projects (Cre:lt 343-BD
and Credit 487-BD, respectively), were taken w_ soon after Bangladesh gained
independence. The projects funded network expansion by providing links
between Dhaka and the regional centers, substantial expansion of the long
distance network along with facilities for nationwlde dialling and semi-
automatic handling of international traffic. The Projects resulted in over
twofold increase In telephone exchange capacity and working conne tions, and a
modest extension of telephone facilities into rural and semiurban areas.
Credit 343-BD became effective on January 17, l973; and was closed on June 30,
1980, four and hali years behind schedule. Credit 487-BD became effective on
July 23, 1974, and was closed on June 30, 1983, also four and half years
behind schedule.  The Third Telecommunications  roject was first identified in
1978; appraised in May 1982 and negotiations concluded in December 1982. The
project was approved by the Board in January 1983.
3. Project Obiectives and DescriRtion
3.1       Project Objectives:  The project objectives were based on the
Government's objectives for the Telecommunications Sector in the Second Five
Year Plan (1981-1985) which were to:
(a) initiate immediate imDrovement of telecommunications services and
increase access to telephone services;
(b) improve TTB's organization and efficiency, particularly for project
planning and implementation, organization of TTB's finances and
commercial accounts, and for related overseas training of staff; and
(c)  introduce modern and appropriate electronic switching system for the
national telecommunications system.
3.2       Prolect Description:  The project's major components as defined in
the SAR were as follows:
(a) supply and installation of telephone exchanges for about 16,000
lines of electronic switching equipment and pulse code modulation
(PCM) transmission systems on existing and new junction cables;
(b) rehabilitation, reconstruction and expansion of local cable networks
to enable redistribution and connection of new subscriber lines;
(c) supply and installation of lo., distance transmission facilities,
includin,g completion of a 960-channel microwave radio telephone
system bttween Dhaka and Chittagong, and additional multiplex
transmission equipment for about 2,800 channels on existing primary
and secondary links;
(d) supply and installation of 16 base stations for multi-access VHF
radio systems to expand telephone service to new rural and isolated
zones, together with 20 UHF radio llnks on tertiary routes, small
exchanges and long distance Public Call Offices (PCO) to provide and



-3-
improve access to telephone service for about 2,600 rural
subscribers and 90 long distance PCOs;
(e) supply and installation of equipment to enable the existing earth
station to work with the INTELSAT V communications satellite to
increase international telecommunications services;
(f)  construction of technical buildings for telephone exchanges and
transmission centers at 24 locations, and provision and installation
of air conditioning and ancillary building equipment, testing
equipment for local network const-ruction and operation;
(g) construction and equipping of a small regional telecommunications
training center at Bogra for about 120 technicil.n trainees; and
(h) provision of (i) technical assistance for program and project
implementation and for organization of TTB's finances and commercial
accounts; and (ii) overseas training for TTB staff.
4. Project Design and Oroanization
4.1       The project components represented about 50X of TWB's total
investment program and about 751 of proposed nzw works including the works
with higl. priority. The project's design and scope were appropriate
considering: (a) the limited foreign exchange available for investment which
could meet only a part of the demand for service; and (b) the rueed to
introduce a modern digital switching system in the network.
4.2       The project's technical assistance component which included funding
for assistance to introduce digital switching siystem; strengthen and improve
operation and maintenance, rural telecommunicauions, frequency management and
program planning and implementation; and introduce commercial accounts; as
well as overseas training of TTB staff was also appropriate. Due to the
importance of the technical assistance, appointment of all the consultants
under the project should have been made a condition of credit effectiveness.
The technical consultants to strengthen and improve operation and maintenance,
rural telecommunications, frequency management and program planning and
implementation were appointed only in 1988 after it was made a condition of
the credit closing date extension. The delay in appointment of these
consultants was due to the Government's policy of using IDA funds for
technical assistance only if grant financing was not available.
4.3       During project implementation, the Government received attractive
bi-lateral offers from two sources, Germany and Japan, for supply and
installation of digital local telephone exchange systems. However, due to the
lack of competent technical advice from TTB, the Government could not -take a
timely decision with regard to the acceptance of the offer from bi-lateral
sources. After a delay of about three years, the Government decided on the
Japanese offer for the supply and installation of 30,000 digital local
exchange lines and associated junction network in Dlhaka North. This capacity,
while still below the unmet demar,d estimated at 50,000 lines, was much higher
than the 16,000 lines provided under the project to introduce digital



-4-
switching technology in Dhaka. With this decision, IDA informed the
Goverrment that IDA would not finance the digital local exchange to avoid
proliferation of switching systems in one region, which could have led to
difficulties in operations and maintenance. Since bi-lateral funds were
provided primarily for switching equipment, IDA ensured that there was
adequate funding available for complementary network to fully utilize the
additional *-apacity to be installed. Thus, in October 1989, the project
description was amended to include expansion of the long-distance trunk and
international exchanges and esynansion of the long-distance transmission
systems. The resulting unutilized credit proceeds of SDR 7.5 million (US$ 10
million) was reallocated to procure the additional items. The reallocatior.
was also necessary to improve the quality of service on both long-distance and
international networks.
4.4       Due to TTB's limited capabilities in project implementation, IDA
should have insisted that all major project components be carried out under
turnkey, with the supplier responsible for supply and installation. In
retrospect, IDA should have also made advance procurement action for all major
project components a condition for credit effectiveness and required creation
of a Project Implementaticn Unit (PIU).
5.  Project Implementatio'
5.1       Credit Effectiveness and Project StartuR:  The IDA credit was
approved on January 25, 1983 with a target effectiveness date of June 28,
1983. There were four conditions for effectiveness: (a) approval of the
project proforma by Government; (b) issuance of an administrative order for
the transfer of credit proceeds to TTB; (c) effectiveness of Japanese credit;
and (d) floating of tenders for 2CZ of the credit amount. There was
considerable delay in the fulfillment of conditions, particularly the approval
of the project proforma by the Government and the credit did not become
effective until December 1, 1983.
5.2       Implementation Schedule:  The project was originally scheduled to be
completed by March 31, 1987. However, most of the project had not even
started by this date, and the project was substantially completed only by
December 31, 1991, a delay of over four and a half years.   The main reasons
for the delays were:
(a) the Government's indecision with regard to the use of bilateral
rather than IDA funds for telephone switching equipment which was a
major component of the IDA financed project; it took the Government
about three years to resolve this issue;
(b) major delays in bid document preparation, bid evaluations and
contract awards; on average, it took over one year between receipt
of bids and obtaining the Government approval of contract awards,
because of extremely protracted procedures for review and contract
awards approval;



.5-
(c) weakness in TTB's planning and development directorate, especially
in its capability for effectively preparing and coordinating all
steps essential for project implementation; and
(d) considerable delay in hiring the technical consultants due to
Government policy of seeking grant fundsl for technical assistance
bofore approving the use of IDA funds.
5.3       In view of the slow disbursements and implementation delays, a
special IDA mission was sent to Dhaka in November 1985 to carryout a detailed
review of the project implementation. The mission reported that the project
implementation was in a very poor state and recommended that some 40X to 50X
of the unutilized credit proceeds resulting from the substitution of Bank-
financed items by bilateral financing be canceled if there were no actions by
the Government to improve sector performance. This state of the project was
brought to the notice of the GOB and TTB and they were urged to take action to
(a) significantly improve TTB's autonomy and management, (b) accelerate
procurement process and implementation, and (c) recruit the remaining
technical consultants.
5.4       With persistent efforts by IDA, mainly through intensive
suporvision missions, the main problems were sorted out.   A change in TTB's
leadership in 1988 also contributed to substantial improvement in project
implementation. Because of that improvement, a strong management at TTB and
the TTB's concurrence with IDA's recommendation to standardize on a single
digital switching system for the development of the Dhaka network, in October
1989, the project description was modified. Credit proceeds were reallocated
with IDA's Board approval to finance digital switching for the long distance
and international exchanges for optimum utilization of the additional local
exchange capacity. During 1989 and 1990 project implementation improved
considerably, but slowed considerably toward the end of 1990 due to political
unrest in the country and a leadership change in TTB. By the closing date of
June 30, 1991, delivery of goods on all contracts were completed except for
the installation of PCM equipment and network materials which were agreed to
be funded from the Flood Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2048-BD).
5.5       The original closing date was June 30, 1988.  The closing date was
extended three times to June 30, 1991. The first extension to June 30, 1989
was conditional on TTB appointing a Chief Accounts Officer and technical
consultants; the second extension to June 30, 1990, was conditional upon TTB
presenting a plan for improving the quality of service. The third and final
extension to June 30, 1991, was conditional on TTB implementing the quality of
service plan.
5.6       Prgcureent.  TTB's overall performance on procurement under the
project was poor. Initial procurement action on the project was encouraging
and, as required before the credit effectiveness, bid invitations representing
20X of the credit amount had been issued. However, after that there was very
little procurement progress until 1988. The main reason was the Government's
indecision on the use of bi-lateral funds to substitute IDA funds to procure
electronic digital exchanges (para 4.3), the major project component. The IDA
funds originally allocated for this item were reallocated to provide the



-6-
procurement of complementary equipment to optimize the overall switching
network. Procurement of the earth station equipment originally to be funded
under the IDA credit was also done under bilateral financing. The procurement
of the PCM transmission was delayed considerably and part of its financing
ultimately transferred to the Flood Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2048-BD).
The procurement of distribution network materials, multiplex equipment, tools
and test equipment, cable laying and jointing material as well as the rural
multi-access VHF systems was carried out satisfactorily, although much
delayed.
5.7       Other reasons for major delays in the procurement process were: (i)
the delays in finalization of bidding documents due to lack of adequate
qualified TTB staff; and (ii) delays in bid evaluations and contract awards,
On average, it took over one year between receipt of bids and the Government's
.approval of contract awards because of the extremely protracted procedures in
review and approval of contract awards.
5.8       Projict Costs.  The project's estimated cost at appraisal was
US$69.7 million with a foreign cost of US$29.0 million. Table 5A in Part III
details the costs of the project as completed. The actual project cost was
US$174.8 million, with a foreign cost of US$81.3 million. The higher cost was
mainly due to the much larger local telephone exchange capacity financed from
bi-lateral source (para 4.3) and Government funds and the provision of related
expansion of the complementary network to utilize the additional capacity.
5.9       DLsbursements.  The disbursement performance on Credit 1321-BD is
given in Table 3A, Part III. Disbursements against commitments were made
until October 16, 1991, and an outstanding balance of about SDR 5.6 million
(equivalent to about US$7.8 million) was canceled. This balance resulted from
the increase in exchange rate of the SDR to the dollar as compared to the time
of appraisal and the funding of some items under the project under bi-lateral
sources and Credit 2048-BD.
5.10      Credit Allocations.  The original and revised allocations and
actual disbursements for Credit 1321-BD are shown in Part III, Table 3B. The
original allocation was revised in June 1990 after Board approval was obtained
in October 1989 to take into account the increase in expenditures under the
transmission and network materials to be met from the unallocated funds and
savings in other categories. However, as shown by actual disbursements, about
SDR 5.6 million was canceled after the credit was closed.
6. Project Results
6.1       Project Objectives.  Even with three one-year extensions of the
credit closing date, project objectives, particularly the institutional
development objectives to improve TTB's organization and efficiency for
project implementation, have not been fully realized due to institutional and
management weaknesses, cumbersome Government regulations and lack of adequate
human resources and skills.
6.2       Phvsical Results.  There were delays in completion of project
components as indicated in Part III, Table 4. The project's physical targets



-7-
however were largely exceeded as indicated in Part III, Table 6A due to the
increased size of the project during execution.
6.3       Technical Assistance.  The project included an important technical
assistance component for project planning and implementation support and TTB's
institutional building. The project's results in technical assistance were
mixed. Despite the fact that consultants were employed early in the Project
for the implementation of commercial accounts in TTB, their recommendations
have not been implemented. The main reason is that the accounting function is
still under the control of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) and has
yet to be transferred to TTB as agreed by GOB in July 1980. Technical
consultants assisted satisfactorily in inducting TTB in the digital switching
technology. However, there were considerable delays in appointing the
technical consultants to assist TTB to improve its operation and maintenance,
project planning and implementation, and their recommendations were not
considered until early 1990.
6.4       The overseas training of TTB staff as provided in the project was
completed, although the process was delayed. The construction and
installation of the Regional Telecommunication Training Center in Bogra was
completed on June 30, 1990.
6.5       Financial Performance:  Annex 1 compares TTB's actual financial
statements and key performance indicators with appraisal estimates, for FY83-
87 and provides actual financial data for FY88-90.   The financial performance
of TTB during the FY83-87 compared well with the appraisal estimates, with
profits and returns higher than appraisal estimates. TTB continued to
generate enough profits to comply with the covenanted return of 15% on
revalued assets during FY88-90. During FY83-90 revenue per main line
increased on average by about 13% per annum, whereas the operating cost per
main line increased on average by only about 7% per annum. This has been
mainly due to tariff increases, growth in traffic and reduction in staffing
ratio. TTB's financial position remained sound during FY83-90.
6.6       Economic Rate of Return:  Due to the close relationship between the
project and the other investments in the total investment program, any attempt
at separating the operating costs and benefits of the project components from
TTB's overall program would be arbitrary. Therefore, during appraisal the
internal rate of return for the total program was estimated. Similarly, the
internal economic rate of return for the program as executed over the 1984-90
period has been estimated for comparison. The underlying assumptions used are
listed in Part III Table 6 C. The project's actual economic rate of return is
estimated to be about 21%, compared with the estimated return of 24% at the
time of appraisal. Even with delays in project implementation the rate of
return was comparable to appraisal estimates due to tariff adjustments, growth
in traffic and improvement in staffing efficiency.
6.7       Institutional Impact:  The project did not provide for any major
institutional reorganization following the constitution of TTB under Ordinance
No. XII/79. It provided, however, specific measures to improve TTB's
institutional capacity in the fields of project planning and implementation,
operations and maintenance, financial accounts and management information



through technical assistance. The results of these measures were poor. There
was very little improvement in TTB's project planning and implementation as
evidenced by the poor performance on this project, mainly due to the inherent
weakness in TTB's skills and leadership apart from Government's cumbersome
procedures for approval of project items and was compounded by delays in
appointment of consultants. Similarly, in the finance and accounts areas, TTB
has yet to obtain the needed real fiscal and administrative autonomy. The
fact that TTB's accounts are still kept on a cash basis as part of GOB's
accounts demonstrates the need to address seriously the issue of Governmert's
policy and extent of control over this sector.
7. Project SustAinabilWS
7.1       The modernization of the network achieved by digitalization in this
project will help to achieve greater efficiency and to improve quality of
service. The physical investments under the project improved the access to
telephone services. The technical assistance and training provided under the
IDA and bi-lateral funds ensures that TTB has sufficient operations and
maintenance capacity so that the benefits from the installed facilities will
be sustainable. In contrast, the institutional improvements under the project
were limited with most of the institutional objectives not being met and thus
TTB is not much stronger than at the start of the project.
8. IDA's Performance
8.1       Overall IDA performance was satisfactory and IDA's supervision
effort for this project was appropriate. IDA has been particularly effective
in advising TTB on the broad thrust of its policy and steps towards
digitalization of Its switching network. In particular, IDA's advice on the
makeup, design and standardization of the switching system and avoiding
proliferation of different systems and insistence on training of staff in the
new technology for the greater Dhaka area has been very effective. IDA has
also, when necessary, given forthright advice on actions needed for speeding
up the slow implementation and the need for TTB to have greater effective
autonomy to deal with its responsibility of providing telecommunication
services. IDA has shown flexibility in its agreement to modify the project
components and for the reallocation required in the credit. IDA has been
extending a very constructive and effective help in procurement and financial
issues.
8.2       The main lesson learned from this operation is that for accelerated
future sector development, it is important to overcome the following factors:
(a) lack of clearly articulated government policy and effective regulation and
supervision; (b) TTB's status as a government board with inadequate autonomy
to operate on a commercial basis; (c) management constraints and
inefficiencies within TTB; and (d) lack of adequate human resource skills.
IDA has, in the context of this project, initiated a dialogue with the GOB and
TTB the need for basic sector reform to address the above issues. As a
result, GOB has agreed to review strategic options to ensure sustained and
efficient development of this sector; the Gov.rnment's commitment to adopt
fundamental reforms remains to be seen.



.9-
8.3       Other major lessons are that the following should have been
addressed as part of project preparation:
(a)  creation of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to ensure timely
implementation;
(b)  coordination with bilateral agencies, to avoid duplication of
efforts and to optimize resource utilization. However, the Bank
ensured that there was no proliferation of telephone switching
systems whic.a could have led to difficulties in operation and
maintenance, and provide financing for the interface equipment to
enable optimum use;
(c)  Government's prior commitment to allocate adequate local funds
needed for project components to be made condition of credit
processing;
(d)  advance procurement action for all major project components and
appointment of consultants to be made conditions of credit
effectiveness; and
(e)  all major project components to be executed on a turnkey basis,
with suppliers being made responsible for supply and installation.
9. Borrower's Performance
9.1       Initial start-up of the Project was satisfactory.  However, for a
substantial period from 1984 until 1988, TTB's planning and project control
was sluggish, resulting in inordinate delays in the pace of procurement,
construction and consultant recruitment. GOB's delayed decision to use
bilateral financing for telephone switching equipment also contributed
significantly to the implementation delays. After mid-1988, TTB's performance
improved with a change in its leadership. Several measures were also taken to
improve the quality of service, and project implementation improved by 1989.
In addition, MOPT and TTB also prepared proposals for improvement in the
performance of this sector such as creation of the Bangladesh
Telecommunication Corporation (to replace TTB) and introduction of the private
sector in rural and international services. However, due to lack of a clear
policy framework and restructuring plan, these proposals weax not approved by
the Cabinet. The Government has recently agreed to appoint consultants to
review the strategic options available for restructuring the sector to improve
efficiency and expand services to meet the demand.
10.  Prject Relationship
10.1      IDA's relationship with Government and TTB during the project was
good.
11. Consulting Services
11.1      TTB employed technical consultants to prepare the design and
specifications for the introduction of electronic digital telephone switching



-10-
system. TTB also employed consultants to assist in the strengthening and
improvement of TTB's management and administration on (a) maintenance and
operations; (b) rural telecommunications; (c) frequency management; and (d)
planning. The consultant's report with recommendations in the above areas was
considered in early 1990 by TTB and broadly accepted; implementation is
currently in various stages. The work of the technical consultants was
satisfactory. TIB also employed a financial consultant who assisted in the
preparation of xs8 accounts on a commercial basis and in establishing a
financial management information system. The basic recommendation of the
consultant was the need to transfer the accounting function from the CAG to
TTB; this recommendation has not been implemented.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1      The Staff Appraisal Report and Development Credit Agreement
provided the framework for monitoring project implementation. The periodical
progress reports of TTB provided information between supervision missions.
The data provided by TTB in the reports and during missions was satisfactory.



-11-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGALDESH
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT (1321-BD)
PART II:     BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE OF THE DESIGN, IMPLEMENTATION
AND DEVELOPMENT IMPACT OF THE PROJECT
(Prepared by the Borrower)
1.        The Third Telecommunication Project (Credit No. 1321-BD) financed by
the World Bank was approved in 1982 and Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was
signed between the Government of Bangladesh and the World Bank on March 28,
1983. The total credit amount was SDR 26.927 million was disbursed and the
remaining 5.572 was canceled. Original closing date of the credit was June
30, 1988 but it had been extended thrice and the credit closed on June 30,
1991. The following were the main components of the project:
(a) Electronic exchange and urban junction facilities in Dhaka;
(b)  Manual exchanges (rehabilitation and reuse of manual exchange and
switchboards);
(c) Tocal cable networks replacement and expansion;
(d) Subscriber installations;
(e) Long distance and transmission system (domestic and international);
(f) Long distance rural telephone;
(g) Building, training center and miscellaneous equipment;
(h) Technical assistance in training.
2.        The components of the project as envisaged in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) and DCA have been maintained.
The total disbursement of SDR 26.927 million were made until October
31, 1991 in the following components:



-12-
Name of Component                   Name of Project
(1)  Procurement of N.W.D. ITX and        Nation wide Trunk Dialling in
interface equipment.                Bangladesh.
(2)  Procurement of microwave and MUX   Expansion of Microwave System in
equipment.                          Bangladesh.
(3)  Cable joints and jointing
materials.
(4)  Procurement of P.C.M. equipment.   Expansion of Local Telephone by
60,000 Lines.
(5)  Procurement of testing and           Construction of two TTCs.
training equipment for two TTCs
(Bogra).
(6)  Construction of building and         Establishment of
procurement of equipment for        Telecommunication Staff College
Telecommunication Staff College    (Joydevpur).
(Joydevpur).                                                            l
(7)  Construction of exchange             Construction of Telecommunication
building (35 places) and            Buildings in Bangladesh.
telegraph building (19 places)
earth filling, side development
___- _ boundary wall etc.
(8)  Construction of expansion of big   Expansion of Greater Dhaka
exchanges at Dhaka, (Moghbazar,    Telephone System (Phase I).
Chawkbazar, Faridabad, Uttara,
Savar), procurement of five
lifts for Dhaka and Chittagong.
(9)  Construction of exchange             Expansion of Local Telephone by
building at Dhaka, Bogra Sharsha   60,000 Lines.
(Jessore) Chandpur, Cox's Bazar,
Kalurghat, Satkhira & Rangamati. 
(10)  Construction of technical            Establishment of two TTCs in
building, academic building,        Bangladesh.
hostel building ane other
related works, boundary wall,
approach road, deep tube well,
power supply and furniture, etc.
(11)   Installation of multiplexing        Expansion of Long Distance
equipment in 28 radio stations,    Telecommunication System.
purchase of TDM equipment at 8
radio stations, procurement of
40 number S+3DX, procurement of
radio MUX for UHF equipment,
establishment of VHF base PCOs.



-13-
(12)  Replacement rehabilitation of        Expansion of Local Telephone by
network by laying new cable and    60,000 Lines and Expansion of
junction cable at Dhaka and         Greater Dhaka Telecommunication
other places of Bangladesh.         System (Phase I).
(13)  Installation of auto exchanges       Small Auto Exchange in Rural
in various piaces of Bangladesh    Areas.
replacing manual ones.
(14)   Service charge of                   Appointment of Technical
telecommunication consultants       Consultants.
(DETECON).                                          .-
(15)   Training of Officers in Ireland.   Nationwide Trunk Dialling.
3.        IDA Credit No. 1321-BD in reality, played a significant role toward
rehabilitation and development of telecommunication facilities in Bangladesh.
Many donor countries, as has been observed, do not finance the whole cost of
the development project. They usually provide the cost of machineries,
equipments and services, but not the cost of physical infrastructure that is
needed for successful implementaticn of the project. On the other hand IDA
project, supported project with financing of machineries and equipment and
civil works. This has helped successful completion of the project. In
telecommunication sector because of its nature of services, efficient
operation is only possible when a project is totally completed. IDA
therefore, played an important role enhancing telecommunication services in
the country.
Further IDA's credit for procurement of goods and services was not
restricted to any particular country or countries. The procurement process is
based on international competitive bidding, which ensures competitive price
and quality of equipment and services. This hrs helped to reduce the overall
costs of development projects. Through Credf'. No. 1321-BD many equipments and
machineries, have been procured and in general, prices were very competitive
and reasonable.
4.        The implementation of the project was delayed, mainly, because the
credit did not have readily corresponding counterpart fund in the Annual
Development budget. The credit fund was available both for new capital works
as well as for rehabilitating existing network. While corresponding local
supporting funds could be arranged through Annual Development budget for the
new capital type works, there has been problem in utilizing these funds for
rehabilitation works, as IDA credit could provide foreign exchange component;
only when counterpart fund is available. Thus, the credit provided only
foreign exchange component and not additional resources for the rehabilitation
works.
5.        IDA did not discourage procurement of local manufactured equipment
and services. This helps growth and sustenance of local industry. In the
Third Telecommunication Project IDA financed procurement of exchange equipment
from Telephone Shilpha Sangstha (TSS). This industry is required to be
rehabilitated and modernized.



-14-
6.        Bangladesh T&T Board recently procured cable joints and jointing
materials under IDA credit. Use of these materials will improve quality of
service as well as create additional employment. Use of these equipment will
increase skill of the local technicians.
7.        The IDA's coordination both on physical and financial progress from
IDA's headquarters as well as by the local mission havs been very useful for
project implementation. Close IDA's monitoring helped on executing agencies
in minimizing or avoiding delay in implementation as they tried to solve
administrative, financial or other difficulty that the agencies may face.
Also the mission's visit to Bangladesh once or twice a year provided valuable
source of spot-decision on important matters.
8.        Expert services provided through IDA's credit produced comprehensive
report as per their terms of reference. The report contained valuable
recommendations which were useful to improve efficiency and technical and
management know-how of BTTB. However, the recommendations were not adequately
followed due to procedural bottleneck that was beyond the agencies control and
some time lack of financial allocation.
Before any such consultancy service is undertaken, proper provision and
selection of counterpart personnel needs to be assured. The counterpart
personnel's remuneration also may be decided in a reasonable matner and if
possible, be funded from IDA's allocation as a part of the said consultancy
service.
9.        A good number of BTTB personnel were trained in technical matters
abroad. Such training improved the efficiency of the personnel of BTTB.
Short technical training of mid-level and top-level officers in IDA's credit
appears to be a costly proposition. Training in local institution through
foreign trainers will result in more number of trained personnel. In that
case trainers may have better ideas of equipment in use, level and extent of
training required. It will be better to provide financial support in respect
of improvement of training management, training expansion, import-of training
aids, preparation of training hand out and literature, books, computer, etc.,
in the existing training institutions.
10.       IDA's assistance should be extended to increase in-house capability
for preparation of technicai specification and tender document. Preparation
of technical specifications by in-house staff will enable us to meet queries
from bidders on technical, financial and local aspects of the tender.
Further, it will be easier for BTTB personnel to conduct technical and
financial evaluation. This will help reducing procurement delay.
11.       During the credit validity of Credit 1321-BD Continuous Reporting of
Project Status (CROPS) and Monthly Disbursement Summary were regularly
received. These reflected implementation status of the different works and
disbursement position of the credit amount, which otherwise, helped BTTB to
adopt measures necessary to execute works in a prescribed manner and within
the time schedule as far as it was practicable.



-15-
12.       Through "ionthly Disbursement Summary" however, only the
disbursement position under description such as "EXSMAT PCM TRNS Al" DISTR
NETWORK A2" ete., are known. This does not readily show the expenditure
position of individual work under execution or executed. Since under the same
head of description, a good number of works may be at different stages of
execution and at different payment position, the officer at the World Bank
desk (at recipient and) finds it difficult to co-relate or reconcile World
Bank disbursement position with that borrower. It would have been convenient
if in the summary statement under a common description, disbursement position
of individual work as sub-head are mentioned if not regularly but at least
once a year. This may result in better account reconciliation. Credit period
continues for two to four years or more. Periodical reconciliation may
however save enormous file work.



-16-
1. W T8D CBRAbs
Year of  Credit amount
Credit  Title            Purpose                           Approval  in USS mill    Status
1.  Credit 339-BD Cocstal             Telecommmication   Sub-           1972 - $25 million Zg   Project  complet-
area Rehabilitation              project  of the main coastal                                  ad by end of
Project                          area rehabilitation  and                                       1979
cyclone protection project
was to help telecommunica-
tion Infrastructure damaged
by cyclone and provide
warning of cyclones and
protection
2.  Credit 339-BD Reconstruc-         A part of this program            1972 - $50 miltiolon&       Coptleted  in
tion Imports Program             credit was for telecommuni-                                   1975
credit                           cat ions goods to recon-
struct the Bangladesh Econ-
Cfly.
3.  Credit 339-BD-First  Tale-        To install  4 long distance       1972 - $7.3 million         Coptleted  In
co fnications  Project           microwave  systems Dacca-                                     1980
Sylhet, Bogra, Nymensingh
and Kushtfa-Rajshahi
4.  Credit 487-BD Sacond              Expansion  of local tele-         1974 - $20.0 million        1983
Telecoummications   Pro-         phone exchangs  end long
Ject                             distance  system  and con-
suitant services for com-
mercial accounting.
S.  Credit 2048 Third Flood           To restore  priority  Infra-      1989 - USS10.5  mil-        In progress  for
Rehabilitatfin  (Emergen-        structure  including  tele-        lion                       telecomnmuicat-
cy) Project                      communications  damaged by                                    ions
flooding.
/a  An amount of USS6.2 mililon was allocated  for the telecommunications   subproject.
/b  The telecommunications   component  was $6.4 milion.



-17-
2.    OJECT TIMETABLE
Date planned Date revised   Date actual
Identification and
preparation                  02/  /1981                  02   /1982
Appraisal mission             05/29/1981   04/  /1982    04 /1982
Loan negotiations             09/28/1982                  12/  /1982
Board approval                12/15/1981                  01/25/1983
Credit Signature                   -            -        03/28/1983
Credit effectiveness          06/28/1983  09/28/1983    12/01/1983
Credit closing                06/30/1988  06/30/89/90       06/30/1991
Project completion            06/30/1987                  12/31/1991 1k
La There were three closing date extensions and the final closing date of
06/30/91 was agreed on 04/10/91.
a The project was Eubstantially completed by December 31, 1991.



-18-
3 A CRDIT DISBURSEMENTS
Accumulated Disbursements
(in US$ thousands)
IDA FY and sLx-month                                     Actual as
period           Actual      Estimate    X of appraisal estimates
January - June 1983          -        1,500                0
July - December 1983         -        6,500                0
January - June 1984          -       11,500                0
July - December 1984       199       16,500                1
January - June 1985      4,232       21,500               20
July - December 1985   11,318        26,500               43
January - June 1986    14,135        31,500               45
t987
July - December 1986   14,268        35,500               40
January - June 1987    15,131                             43
July - December 1987   15,658                             44
January - June 1988    15,875                             45
July - December 1988   18,383                             52
January - June 1989    19,320                             53
July - December 1989   20,950                             54
January - June 1990    21,670                             61
1991
July - December 1990   26,630                             75
January - June 1991    30,030                             76
July - December 1991:          32,216 La
A Credit 1321-BD was disbursed until October 16, 1991 against commitments made.
SDR 5,572,923.12 (equivalent US$7,797,689) remaining undisbursed was canceled.



-19-
3B: CREDIT ALLOCATION
Amounts in SDR
Original        Revised       Final
Category                        allocation      allocation  allocation
(March 1983)   (June 1990)
1. Eaui2ment and manuals
(a) Electronic switch         6,390,000        5,200,000   4,338,934
(b) PCM equipment             2,130,000        1,160,000      790,478
(c) Distribution network      2,120,000        2,593,000   3,838,079
(d) Multiplex equipment       1,300,000        2,394,000   2,345,254
(e) Multi-access radio        6,950,000        9,671,000   5,870,881
(f) Earth station equipment     650,000                -
(g) Miscellaneous equipment   1,110,000        3,152,000   2,127,499
2.  Civil Worka
(a) Cable laying, jointing    1,670,000        3,047,000   2,947,298
(b) Telecom buiildings        3,430,000        8,748,000   2,697,948
3.  Consultants Services and
Training
(a) Foreign consultants         460,000        2,295,000   1,418,992
(b) Local consultants           190,000
4.  Unallocate                    6,090,000          240,000
Total                    32.500.000       32.5.00.000   26,927,077/a
JA An amount of SDR 5,572,923 remaining undisbursed by October 16, 1991 was
canceled.



-20-
4. COMPLEXION DATES
Name of Component                   Date of Completion
(1)  Procurement of N.W.D. ITX and           June 1991
interface equipment.                                                    l
(2)  Procurement of microwave and WUX        September & November 1990
equipment.                                                              l
(3)  Cable joints and Jointing               June 15, 1991
materials.
(4)_ Pi-ocurement of P.C.M. equipment.       June 1991
(5)  Procurement of testing and              June 6, 1991
training equipment for two TTCs
(Bogra).                                                                l
(6)  Construction of building and            June 6, 1990
procurement of equipment for
Telecommunication Staff College
(Joydevpur).
(7)  Construction of exchange                June 6, 1990
building (35 places) and
telegraph building (19 places)
earth filling, side development
boundary wall etc.
(8)  Construction of expansion of big       August 8, 1990
exchanges at Dhaka, (Moghbazar,       December 12, 1998
Chawkbazar, Faridabad, Uttara,
Savar), procurement of five
lifts for Dhaka and Chittagong.
(9)  Construction of exchange              April 4, 1989
building at Dhaka, Bogra Sharsha
(Jessore) Chandpur, Cox's Bazar,
Kalurghat, Satkhira & Rangamati.
(10)  Construction of technical              June 30, 1990
building, academic building,
hostel building and other
related works, boundary wall,
approach road, deep tube well,
power supply and furniture, etc.
(11)  Installation of multiplexing          June 1986
equipment in 28 radio stations,
purchase of TDM equipment at 8
radio stations, procurement of
40 number S+3DX, procurement of
radio MUX for dHF equipment,
establishment of VHF base PCOs.



-21-
Replacement rehabilitation of         June 30, 1991
network by laying new cable and
junction cable at Dhaka and
other places of Bangladesh.
(13)  Installation of auto exchanges         June 1990
in varLous places of Bangladesh
replacing manual ones.
(14)  Service charge of                      June 30, 1991
telecommunication consultants
(DETECON). of_OfLc_s_i_Ireand_Febuar_26_199
(15)  Training of Officers in Ireland.       February 26, 1992



-22-
5. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
.SA: PROJECT COSTS
(in US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate               Actual _1/
Multi access radio systems    Foreign   Local   Total   Foreign   Local  Total
Local Swltching Networks
Electronic exchanges            6.90     5.19   12.19    54.51   49.25  103.76
Local Cable Networks
Civil works and outside
plant material                 -       8.41    8.41      -       8.60    8.60
PCM junction                    2.30     1.63    3.93      2.30    1.63    3.93
Long Distance Network
Microwave link                  3.60     2.13    5.73      9.77   17.20   26.97
Multiplex equipment             1.40     0.85    2.25      3.15    2.68    5.83
Rural Telephone Network
Multi-access radio systems      4.80      3.74    8.54     2.08    1.96    4.04
and PCOS
UHF links                       2.70      2.00    4.70     4.05    3.53    7.58
Internation,l Networks
Earth station equipment         0.70     0.40    1.10      0.29    0.87    1.16
Buildings and SuRDort
Technical buildings               -      4.00    4.00        -     3.84    3.84
Building equipment, tools
and operational aid           0.80     0.33    1.13       2.16   0.92    3.08
Training center equipments      0.40     1.07    1.47       0.84   2.84    3.68
Technical assistance and
training                      0.70     0.29    0.99       2.13   0.23    2.36
Total Base Cost                24.30    30.04   54.34         -      -      -
Price contingencies             &JZQ    10.63   15.33        -      -
Project Cost                 29.00    40.67   69.67       81.28  93.55 174.83
1,U The size of the actual Project was much larger than appraised. Much
larger local exchange capacity was installed through funding from bi-lateral
source and Government own funds. In addition, complementary t.otwork were also
expanded to utilize the additional capacity.



-23-
5B. PROJECT FINANCING
(in US$ million)
AUgraisal Estimate                 Actual  1/
Source    Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
IDA       9.60      24.40     35.00   10.16      22.06     32.22
Japan      -         3.60      3.60    -         58.35    58.34
Canada    -          -         -        0.29      0.88      1.17
GOB      31.07       -        31.07   83-1Q         =      83.10
Total  40.67      29.00     69.67   93.55    81.28    174.83
I/ The size of the actual Project was much larger than appraised.
6. PROJECT RESULTS
A. Direct Benefits
Actual at
Appraisal estimate
84/85           June 309 1991
Exchange capacity          185,700             248,505
DELs in service            139,400             216,327
Telex lines in service         880               2,650
B. STUDIES
Studies          Status           Impact of Studies
None



-24-
C. Economic Impact
Appraisal                 Actual
Estimate         (At Final Development)
Economic
Rate of Return                  24                          21
Underlying
AssumDtions
1.   Due to close relationship between the project and non-project
investments during the period, any attempt at separation of coets and benefits
would be arbitrary. Consequently, the rate of return calculation is made on
the total program during the p6eiod.
2.    The benefit period of the program extends from 1986 to 2006, when on
average, the equipment provided under the program is expected to have
substantially completed its useful life.
3.    Capital cost streams are based on the programs as actually implemented
from 1984 to 1990.
4.    The operating benefits and costs attributed to the program are based on
the benefits and costs fo. additional telephone and telex connections which
were commissioned during 1986 through 1990 period.
5.    From 1991 on,.the benefits and operating costs are constant.
6.    No residual value of fixed assets are taken into account as the present
value of those in real terms would be minimal.
7.   All 'bsfits and costs streams have been expressed in 1984 prices.



-25-
7. Status of Covenants
Agreement     Brief description of covenant                 Status
3.03(b)     Financial and technical con-         There were extensive delays
sultants required under the          in employment of consultants,
project shall be employed not        especially the technical
later than June 30, 1983.           consultants.  Both the finan-
cial and technical consult-
ants have submitted their
recommendations to improve
the financial and operation
and maintenance systems.
Implementation of the recom-
mendations by TTB has been
progressing slowly.
4.01(a)     TTB to develop and maintain          Primary forms of accounting
records in accordance with con-      system is still Government
sistently maintained appropriate    single entry system.  Commer-
commercial accounting practices.    cial accounting system is yet
to be fully implemented.
4.02(b)     Audited FY 89/90 accounts Cu1~e      Audits of financial accounts
December 31, 1990.                   continues to be late.  Audi-
ted FY89/90 accounts were
received in June 1991.
4.05(b)     TTB to produce, commencing with      In compliance.
FY83/84 and each year thereafter,
an annual return of not less than
15Z on revalued assets.



- 26-
BANGLADESH
THIRD TELECOSUUNICATIONS   PROJECT  (CREDIT  1321-RD)
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
8. Kul=aj
Stage of                           No of         SW       SpeciaLizstionL      Performence
project cycle       Month/year      persons     in field       represented           rsting      TMe of probLem
1st Identification        03/1978        2                     Eng, Fin A
Preappraisal         08/1978         2                     Eng, Fin A
let Apprafsal               /1978        2                     Eng, Fin A
2nd AppraIsal         05/29/1981         2                     Eng, Fin A
ReappraIsal         04/05/1982         2                     Eng, Fin A
SuDeryfoion
Supervision  1b           03/1983        1           1         Fin A
Supervisfon  2            06/1983        2           1.5       Eng 1, Fin A 1            1
Supervision  3            03/1984        2           1         Fin A, 2                  1
Supervision  4            05/1984        1           1         Eng                       I
Supervisfon  5            08/1985        1           1         Eng                       4         Project Nanage-
ment weak. The
consuttants not
hired.  Pro-
cureent pro-
Ject implemen-
tetion slow.
Suervision  6             11/1985        2           1         Econ 1, Proc Sp           4         Acdhc nce Lb to
1                                   Fin covernnts
usantisfactory.
SupervisIon  7            08/1986        2           1.5       Eng 1, Fin A              4
Supervision  8            09/1987        2           2         Eng 1, Fin A              4
Supervision  9            03/1988        2           1.5       Eng 1, Fin A              4
supervision  10           08/1989        3           2         Eng 2, Ffn A-1            2
Supervision  11           05/1990        3           1.5       Eng 2, Fin A              4
Supervision  12           09/1990        3           2         Eng 1, Fin A-1i
LegS-1                    2
Supervision  13           06/1991        3           2         Eng 1, Fin A-1,
LegS-I                    2
Li  Abbrsvietions:   Eng - Engineer;  Fin A   Financial  Analyst; Econ - Economist;  Pror Sp - Procurement
Speceflist; Leog Sp - Legl Specialist.
ik  This was an initial Financial  Supervision  misson.



Bwladesh                                               Amex I
.... ..... ..                                         PPge 1 of 3
Telegraph  nd Telephone Board(TTB)
..................................
Third Telecommunications Project
............ ......................._ 
SAR Estimete nd Actual Income Statements
... ... u....................  _......
(Take Millions)
........................................................................................................................................
Tear Ending Jure 30          -----1982-83---  -----1983-84----   -----1984-85----  ---- 1985-86---- -19B6-87--1987-88--1988-89-*1989-90-
AppraisaL Actual  Appraisal Actual  Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual  Aetual
.......................................................................................................................................
Operating Revenue
.................
Telephone                      844.0    698.0  1,017.0    907.0  1,220.0  1,271.0  1,398.0  1,729.0  1,786.0  2,352.0  2,615.0  3,902.0
Telex                           98.0    285.0    138.0    252.0    199.0    275.0    253.0    281.0    319.0    374.0    493.0    531.0
Telegraph                       55.0     54.0      55.0     47.0     55.0     47.0      55.0     52.0     48.0      48.0     60.0     66.0
Niscellaneous                   30.0     77.0      30.0     85.0     30.0    106.0      30.0    120.0    138.0    165.0    194.0    153.0
Subotal                      1,027.0  1,114.0  1,240.0  1,291.0  1,504.0  1,699.0  1,736.0  2,182.0  2,291.0  2,939.0  3,362.0 4,652.0
Tariff increase                                   155.0             376.0              434.0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........  ..... ..  .......  .......  ...; .....  .......  .......  ........  ...... ... .......   .... ...  .......
Total Reveiui                1,027.0  1,114.0  1,395.0  1,291.0  1,880.0  1,699.0  2,170.0  2,182.0  2,291.0  2,939.0  3,362.0 4,652.0
Operating Costs
...............I
Staff Wages & Salaries         148.0    248.0    155.0    302.0    163.0    304.0    170.0    388.0    433.0    495.0    521.0   610.0
operations and Mafntenanoce    244.0    176.0    316.0    238.0    399.0    298.0    m.0    280.0    364.0    327.0    751.0    878.0
Depreciation                   135.0     75.0    166.0      79.0    219.0    130.0    244.0    175.0    192.0    198.0    205.0   253.0
94.0              169.0             302.0    169.0              181.0    205.0    248.0    289.0    367.0
Total Cost before Interest    621.0    499.0    806.0    619.0  1,083.0    901.0  1,187.0  1,024.0  1,194.0  1,268.0  1,766.0 2,108.0
Income Before Interest         406.0    615.0    589.0    672.0    797.0    798.0   983.0  1,158.0  1,097.0  1,671.0  1,596.0  2,544.0
Interest  1/                   225.0    310.0    404.0    404.0   495.0    491.0    604.0    550.0    701.0    652.0    526.0    639.0
Met Income                     181.0    305.0    185.0    268.0   302.0    307.0    379.0    608.0    396.0  1,019.0  1,070.0  1,905.0
_/ Includes Governaent transfer charge.



B-tldsh                                                         Amex I
-- ---.---                                                     P"e 2 of 3
Telegraph snd Telephone BordtTTB)
Third TelecowAnicatiors Project
SAl Estimte and Actual Baltce Sheets
(Take Nittion)
........................................ ............................................................................................ 0*__ ... ...  ......_....  .. ...
Yeer Ending Jiue 30              --...1982-83 ---  --1983-4----  -----1984-85--    -----1985-86-.-- -1986-87--1967-88--198B-89--1989-90-
Appratsal Actual  Appralial Actual  Appraisal Actual  Appraisal Actual   Actul   Actual   Actual   ActaL
...... .......... _...................................... ................................... ....................................................................... .................. _........... ........ .. .........
Assets
Gross Fixed AssetsJ/               2,759    2,327    3,307    3,112    3,969    3,890    4,880    4,394    4.881                  5,455    6,044       7,159
Acc. Depreciation                    706        526        872       605      1,091       735      1,335       910    1,102       1,300      1,505     1,758
.. ...... ....  .......  .......    ...........  .......    ...........  .......  ............ .. .. ...  .. ......  .........    __... .....    ...........__
Net Fixed Assets                   2,053      1,801     2,435    2,507    2,898    3,155          3,545      3,483     3,779    4,155        4,539    5.401
Plant tnder Construction             646        780    1,069         534     1,398        49       1,558       182          5         56       432    3,484
Irwestmnt In Factory                  88        127        88        130         88       130         88       163        163       161        192       192
Other                                           435                  390                  427                  673        762       791    1,030         924
.......  ----......... .. .......  -----   -------  .......  ... ....  ----   -----   .. ... .._ .... ...
Total let Fixed Assets             2,987    3,143    3,592    3,561          4,384    4,161       5,190    4,501       4,709    5,163    6,193   10.001
Current  Assets                                                                                                                                                           0
-Cash                                             6                    8                    2                    0          3         4         18        82
-Accounts Receivable                 164        756       198        768       241        40        347        640        952    1,109         872       943
-Accowts Recelvable-GOB                         180                  317                1,933                2,272    2,613    2,979    3,088               1
-Current Profit Paid GOB                                                                  710                1,155     1,355    2,108    2,510    4,861
-Loans and Advances                              24                  144                  151                  213        213       366        493       577
-Inventories                         221        432       273        627       328        600       399        712        899       882        819       797
-Others                                         991                1,054
---.  -  . .. ....  .....   .......  --------.......  ----..... ..  ----.......  -----
Total Current Assets                 385    2,389         471      2,918       569    3,836          746    4,991      6,035    7,48        7,800    7,261
. ...... ...........  .........  .......   ...........  ............. .. ...... .  ....... ...........  ....... ...........  .......  .......... ..----_-
Total Assets                       3,372      5,532    4,063    6,479    4,952          7,997    5,936    9,492   10,744   12,611    13,993   17,262
LiabiLities
-Govenmeit Loan  nd Equity   2,032    3,823             2,315    4,382    2,727    5,190    2,859    5,663    6,053    6,630                7,573    9,418
-Reserves                            535        794       628    1,073         751      1,340     1,437      1,905    2,193    3,059    3,565          7,416
...;;.......  ......  .....  .......   .......  .....    .......  ....  ......    ......    ....
Total Equity                       2,567    4,617    2,943    5,455    3,478    6,530    4,296    7,568    8,24                   9,689   11,138   16,834
Lana-term Debt                       612                  842                1,148                1,202
Curre..n  Liabilities                193        187       278        277       326        367       438        450        528       610        744       428
Current Account-GOB                             728                  747                1,100                1,475     1,970    2,312    2.111
Total Liabilities                  3,372    5,532    4,063    6,479    4,952            7,997    5,936    9.492   10,7U    12,611    13,993   17.262
_1/ Asets revalued in fiscal year 1990.



Blatadesh                                                Arrm   I
*---------                                               Page 3 of 3
Telegraph and Telephone Board cITTB)
Third Telecommunications Project
SAR Estimate nd Actual Performarce indicators
...............................................................................................................................................
tear Ending June 30           -----1982-83----  -----1983-864---   ---- 1984-85----  -----1985-86---- -1986-87--1987-88--1988-89--1989-90-
Apprafsal Actual  Appraisal Actual  Appraisal Actual  Appraisal Actual   Actual   Actual   Actul   Actual
................................................... ................................................................................................................................. ..........................................................
Muwber of Eptloyees            17,560   17,444   17,990   18,312   18,120   18,759   19,015   18,793   19,239   19,239   19,165   19,165
Employees per 1000 DELS           147       152      139       155       130      138       131      119       114       106      101        97
Gross Op. Revemue(TK Hill.)   1,027    1,114    1,240    1,291    1,504    1,699    2,170    2,182    2,291    2,939    3,362    4,652
Gross Revwnue/DEL(Tk)           8,594    9,722    9,964   10,956   11,190   12,470   15,079   14,532   13,544   16,260   17,737   23,527
Telephone Revenue/DEL(Taka)   7,402    6,092    8,216    7,697    9,121    9,328   11,949   11,329   10,559   13,012   13,796   19,734
Telex Revenuelsubs.(Taka)   189,117  504,425  217,485  395,294  250,108  345,912  259,106  294,145  240,755  273,292  291,113  231,524
Operatins Costs/DEL(Taka)       5,443    4,355    6,511    5,253    8,097    6,613    7,077    7,574    7,059    7,015    9,317   10,661
Staff CostlStaff(Takt)          8,428   14,217    8,616   16,492    8,996   16,206   20,405   23,040   20,167   22,506   25,828   27,185
Rate of Return
-Book Value Av. NFA                222      36X       26X       31X      30X       282      31X       352       302      422       372       512
Current Ratio                     2.0      12.8      1.7      10.5       1.7     10.5       1.7     11.1      11.4      12.2     10.5      17.0
AIR  Days ofRevenue)               59       262       59       229        59       99        73      112       159       144       99        75
................................. ...........................................................................Estimad          .......................... 
_11 Estiated at appraisal



Annex 2
-30-
Pao'e 1 of 3
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar
Dhaka-1207
;Y From  a  segMm Meheruwnessa Zama.v
iResearch officer
D.O. No. R/IDA.-7/Com1-m791(Vol-3)//lI          Dted. 28. MarchT  1992
Dear Mr, IsZam,
Third Telecomminication Project
(credit no. 1321-3D).
PZease refer to IDA's letter dated 27 February,
1992 on the above mentioned subject. A copy of the comments
on the Project completio" Report regarding the Third Tele-
co5  menication profect credit no. 1321-SD is fnclosed here-
with.
You are, therefore, requested to take necessary
action in this regard.
Enc7 t as stated above               Yours sincerely,
(13egum MekeusaZma4)
Mr. Reazml Islam
Programme officer,
The World Bank Resident Mission
in sangladesh,
3A, Paribagh,
Dhaka.



01'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~Annex 2TO
% ~~~~~Page/ 2 of 3
Commentof,.::inistry of 'P'            o r '   Telecomunication
Project (CH 1321 -. BD)
Reference from
Draft PCI. 
1.  Item (b)                  This problom needle to be nadressed annd  roculurnl adjust-
lPnge - IV,               ment is required1 to be marde by all parties to improve
Evaluation                the timing to procoss a case.
Summary.
2.  Ibem - C                   BTTO Planninn Coll particulRrly needs 2  bo up graded
Page - IV                 with more knowlodgeahle expertise thatpavailable within  a
BTTB. In some high-tech aroam short tirm consultants          r
with full time counterpart qtaff may be required for
specific projocts. Such consultants shotild be'made uvai1.
-ahle undergrant 2, failing which Il) assistance can be
taken. More modern Technotogy in project manar:ement
(computeraidel) should be implemented.
3.  Item - D
Page-VI                   It is a general Government policy to nvail coiititants oJ'
on grants. But efrortq should ho mado to avail tilhm
prior to use of IDA Fund. As ahexample this is being
done for the pro;osed Satellite Enrth Station unridr XK
Japanese  grant with the aQsistance of IDA.1fihnt is
perhaps ne&ded in well co-ordinated and timely action by
both the Donor and the Government.
Prolect Sustainability: The Ministry of 1.TkT has alrendy adl1r,s.;ed thio; !S9ue
Page(V) & (VI)            and some ir.tittitional changces are bein- taken to improve
the overall performance of this sector.
Item - 3(a)               PILU Perhap, in nocesmnry but implementiltinn i't be
Page (VI)                 difficult nt this mt~,e bolt efrort.a witl be m:deI La this
end.
Item-3(c)                 In some casem thic is a valid problem in renpect of time'
-ly implementation or proiect^. l!owevor, if r&r could use
its own sur,-lni  onrning the problem could have been
eased further.
Item-31d)                 GOB doea ndt agree that there sliould be consultant for
(Page - VI)               each pro,jec' implementation unless the pro.ject'fof very
sopihisticated nature. In-country experts should be
utilised as f        as preferable.
Item-3 (e)                GCBI  does not agree to this point. IDA assistance projecti
(Page-VI)                se'ould aim to develop local expertise rather than to
depend on foreign consultants. N o project should be
given on tupnkey basis where the capability of installa-
.tion of equipments is available within BTTB or in the
country. Only top supervision and durlnn acceptance test-
-inL. for few sophisticated technology, foreign expertise
may be requirod.
iarn 2.1.                 Shares of "Government and Siemenas should be 92%o and 8%
(P-l)(Part-l)             vice 82% anal 18$



Annex 2
- 32-                            Pate 3 of 3
32 -
4. Para-4.3 of        Regarding avoidance of proliferation of switching
part-It            systems in onieregion this may not hc ptos4hl.o to be
pages-3-4.         avoided in the interest of a pragm.tic appnoach in
view of world trend of competition in genoral aind
for a resource starved developing country ratiher
an LDC toolcing for multiple funding sources'on grant/
softloan basis in particular. In fact4 the present
bilateral appronch d tinder OMCF fund for sou#prn
Dhaka does not guarantoe that a different system
manufacturer will not he awarded 4a the contract.
5. "ara 6.7,          It has been experienced  that  projedts implemented
Pnge 7 of          through bilateral finances could be implemented more
Part-I.            or less  within the time schedule, under the same
environment in  ITTB, whereas substantial delay  e
occurred only in case of IDA financed project* Thus
the observation of World Bank needs to be critically
reviewed. A study may be undertaken to asses the
actilt cost of IDA  assisted  project  VIS -a -VIS
that of a bitateb.Lproject   beeaus# of  the
institutional delays in inplementing IDA ao*#ed
projects.
6.  Para 8.3 (d)      Some agreed methodology need to be chalked out.
Page-9
7. Part-11, Page-II  Original closing date of t1,e credit was
Para-I from        June$ 30, 1087  but it has been extended  thrice
line 5.            ( This sentence is to be re-written ).



