Document of                       iLE COFY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3441-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 32.5 MILLION (EQUIVALENT TO US$35.0 MILLION)
TO THE
PEOPLE's REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
December 29, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a basket of
reference currencies, with the Pound Sterling serving as intervention
currency. On August 24, 1982, the exchange rate was set at Tk38.95 buying
and Tk 39.05 selling per Pound Sterling. Depending on exchange rate
movements between Sterling and the US Dollar, the Taka/Dollar crossrate is
subject to change. In recent months, this rate has fluctuated between Tk
23-24 per US dollar. Throughout this report the rates shown below have been
used:
US$1             -       Tk 22.00
Tk 1             -       US$0.045
Tk 1 million    -        US$45,454.55
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BTV                     - Bangladesh Television Department
DCA                     - Development Credit Agreement
DEL                     - Direct Exchange Line
EFF                     - Extended Fund Facility
GDP                     - Gross Domestic Product
GNP                     - Gross National Product
GOB                     - Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
HF                      - High Frequency
ICB                     - International Competitive Bidding
MOC                     - Ministry of Communications
MTFPP                   - Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan
NWD                     - Nationwide Subscriber Dialing System
OECF                    - Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PCO                     - Public Call Office
PCM                     - Pulse Code Modulation
PCR                     - Project Completion Report
PT&T                    - Department of Post, Telegraph & Telephone, Ministry
of Communications
RF                      - Radio Frequency
SFYP                    - Second Five Year Plan
Tk                      - Taka
TTB                     - Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board
UHF                     - Ultra High Frequency
UNDP                    - United Nations Development Program
VHF                     - Very High Frequency
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAI USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          People's Republic of Bangladesh (GOB)
Beneficiary:      Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board (TTB)
Amount:            SDR 32.5 million (US$35.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Relending Terms:  GOB would transfer the proceeds of the proposed credit
to TTB at an interest rate of 11.5% per annum for a period
of 20 years including a 5-year grace period. TTB would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project            The project would expand the telecommunications network
Description:    of Bangladesh through the provision of additional
(i) local telephone switching facilities and subscriber
lines, (ii) long distance transmission facilities,
(iii) telephone service to rural areas, (iv) receivers
and other equipment for international satellite com-
munications, (v) buildings and equipment for telephone
exchanges, transmission centers, and training facilities,
and (vi) technical assistance to help TTB strengthen its
project planning and implementation capabilities and its
financial and administrative structure. In strengthening
the telecommunications system, the project would improve
the efficiency of a wide range of economic and social
activities. In particular, the project would benefit
smaller urban and rural communities and isolated
commercial and industrial enterprises which currently
have no access to telecommunications service.
Project Risks:    There are no unusual risks associated with the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
-----US$ Million-
Local Foreign Total
Estimated
Project Costs:
Local Switching Networks                5.19     6.90   12.09
Local Cable Networks                  10.04      2.30   12.34
Long Distance Network                  2.98      5.00    7.98
Rural Networks                         5.74      7.50   13.24
International Network                  0.40      0.70    1.10
Buildings and Support Equipment        5.40      1.20    6.60
Technical Assistance and               0.29      0.70    0.99
Overseas Training
Base Cost Estimate                    30.04    24.30   54.34
Price Contingencies                  10.63      4.70   15.33
Total Project Cost                    40.67    29.00   69.67
Taxes and Duties                     15.80       -      15.80
Project Cost Net of                  24.87    29.00   53.87
Taxes and Duties
Financing Plan:
IDA                                    9.60    24.40   35.00
Japan                                   -        3.60    3.60
GOB                                     4.53      -       4.53
TTB                                   26.54       -      26.54
Total                          40.67    29.00   69.67
Estimated
Disbursements:
-------US$ Millions--------
IDA Fiscal Year              FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87
Annual                        1.5  10.0  10.0   9.5   4.0
Cumulative                    1.5  11.5  21.5  31.0  35.0



-iii -
Economic Rate
Of Return:     24%
Staff Appraisal
Report:        Bangladesh: Third Telecommunications Project,
Report No. 3646-BD, dated December 28, 1982.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH FOR A THIRD TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh (GOB) for SDR 32.5
million (US$35.0 million equivalent), on standard IDA terms, to help finance
a third telecommunications project. Parallel co-financing of US$3.6 million
equivalent would be provided by the Overseas Economic Cooperative Fund
(OECF), the Japanese aid agency at an interest rate of 1.875% per annum for
fifteen years including a three-year grace period. The proceeds of the IDA
credit would be transferred to the Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board
(TTB) at an interest rate of 11.5% per annum for a period of twenty years,
including five years' grace. TTB would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Recent Economic Develop-
ments and Selected Development Issues," (Report No. 3768-BD, dated March 3,
1982) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.  Its
economy was disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged by the struggle
for independence. The country was afflicted by poor harvests and devastating
floods in the early 1970s. Agriculture and manufacturing production fell
drastically and only recovered to pre-independence levels in the mid 1970s.
Inflation, declining real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and
political instability added to the difficulties. In these early years,
Bangladesh's policy makers were by necessity largely preoccupied with matters
of relief and rehabilitation and the need to shape a national government out
of a provincial administration. The First Five-Year Plan (FY74-78) had to be
scrapped and replaced by a scaled-down and refocussed three-year "Hardcore
Programme" (FY76-78) in response to the enormity of the country's difficul-
ties.
4.      Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the past decade provided planners the opportunity to turn their
attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of develop-
ment. Between FY75 and FY80, GDP increased by about 5.8% p.a. despite
several setbacks in agricultural production. Output in manufacturing rose by
about 6.3% annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this growth taking place
outside the jute industry. Although shortfalls in domestic foodgrain sup-
plies and increases in international petroleum prices led to a deterioration



-2-
in the balance of payments in FY80, the concluding years of the decade wit-
nessed a number of encouraging developments and positive policy measures to
attain longer-term development goals. These included a strengthening of
budgetary policies, improvements in agricultural and food distribution
policies and steps to promote a more active role by the private sector in
developing the economy.
Recent Economic Developments
5.      The economic consolidation in the second half of the past decade has
been followed by a period of economic difficulties. Bangladesh experienced
serious budgetary and balance of payments problems in FY81 which have con-
tinued into FY82 and FY83. The external and domestic resource constraints
led to some decline in investment, in real terms, and some loss of momentum
in the development effort. The domestic food situation due to poor crops has
also posed considerable problems. Although GDP at market prices increased by
6% in FY81 (as favorable weather and stepped-up provision of agricultural
inputs helped to increase foodgrain production to a record 14.8 million
tons), growth of the economy became negligible in FY82 and FY83 due to poor
crops, lagging rural incomes and consumer demand and the decline in invest-
ment.
6.      The increasing economic difficulties experienced in the last few
years is indicative of major constraints to sustained economic development
in Bangladesh in the near term. These are (a) an increasingly severe balance
of payments problem; (b) an extremely tight public finance situation; and
(c) a food production and management problem.
7.      Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive struc-
tural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Export earnings
are currently less than 30% of the import bill and over 50% of these limited
export earnings is derived from raw jute and jute goods. Although export
earnings doubled over the second half of the past decade due to a significant
strengthening of export prices, and remittances from abroad increased
rapidly, the current account deficit over the past decade averaged over 10%
of GNP annually, financed by external aid inflows, provided mainly on conces-
sional terms by external donors. Over the past two to three years, however,
Bangladesh has been adversely affected by (a) a severe deterioration in its
terms of trade and (b) a simultaneous decline in external aid inflows. A
sharp decline in export prices of raw jute and jute goods and of major
non-traditional exports (notably leather and fish products), combined with a
14% increase in average import prices (partly reflecting significantly higher
petroleum prices), led to a 22% deterioration in Bangladesh's terms of trade
in FY81. While import prices remained relatively stable in FY82, export
prices declined by a further 16% due to continued stagnation of demand for
raw jute and jute goods, and the terms of trade deteriorated further by 17%
in FY82. At the same time external aid inflows, which rose steadily until
FY80, stagnated or declined; aid disbursements in FY82 were only 2% higher



-3-
than in FY79 in real terms, and in FY81 were 7% lower than FY79 levels.
During FY81 the Government attempted to cope with this reduction in the
availability of external resources by resorting to short-term commercial
borrowing, short-term deposits from and currency swaps with friendly
countries, some run-down of reserves and assistance from the IMF under an
Extended Financing Facility (EFF) arrangement concluded in December 1980.
However, the EFF arrangement was suspended in July 1981, as the Government's
budgetary problems led to a large bank-financed budget deficit and to the
violation of credit ceilings agreed with the IMF. The foreign exchange
constraint necessitated a 14% reduction in imports, in real terms, in FY82
below the FY80 level. Nevertheless further short-term borrowing (the out-
standing amount was about US$260 million in January 1982 and about US$130
million in June 1982), and a run-down of Bangladesh's meager foreign exchange
reserves to about US$100 million (equivalent to about two weeks' imports)
were necessary to finance the reduced level of imports.
8.      The external payments outlook for FY83 is one of continued difficul-
ties. A substantial recovery in the terms of trade or increase in aid flows
is not in sight. Although export volume may increase by about 5% and
workers' remittances may reach a record level of US$475 million (equivalent
to 70% of commodity exports), imports will have to be cut back again below
the reduced FY82 level, since there is little scope for further short-term
borrowing and run-down of reserves.
9.      The deterioration in the trade and aid climate had a major adverse
impact on public finances during FY81 and FY82. Government's receipts of
local counterpart funds--a principal source of taka resources--were reduced,
as were its receipts from import duties and sales taxes, which account for
nearly 60% of total tax revenues. These budgetary problems were exacerbated
by weak financial planning and inadequate domestic adjustments in the face of
generally reduced availability of resources. The Government's development
programs were predicated on the basis of overly optimistic assumptions
regarding resource availabilities; and the poor financial performance of
public enterprises, due to low levels of efficiency and delays in increasing
their sales prices added a further drain on the budget. A budget deficit of
Tk 5 billion or about 2.5% of GNP emerged in FY81 even though the Annual
Development Program (ADP) was cutback by 12% in the second half of the fiscal
year. In FY82, the cutbacks in imports noted earlier sharply reduced govern-
ment revenues; and this caused serious difficulties in implementing the ADP
which was again initially set at ambitiously high levels.  Although the Taka
component of the ADP was cutback by 15% in the third quarter of FY82, it was
possible to avoid a deficit in the overall government budget only because a
sharp run-down in government's food stocks as a result of poor domestic crops
helped to produce a substantial cash surplus on the food account.
10.     Although considerable progress has been made in the past ten years
in increasing the availability of irrigation and other inputs and improving
agricultural policies, foodgrain production and supply in Bangladesh remains



-4-
heavily dependent on the vagaries of the weather. Prolonged drought since
the summer of 1981 adversely affected the FY82 and FY83 rice crops. The
shortfall in foodgrain production in FY82 (0.7 million tons or 5% below FY81
levels) led to high food prices in FY82, low government procurements,
increased demand for foodgrain distributed through the ration system and a
substantial run-down of public sector foodgrain stocks to about 600,000 tons
by end-June 1982, far below the levels considered to be sufficient for food
security purposes. In order to replenish stocks the Government made substan-
tial commercial imports, thereby imposing further strain on the balance of
payments.
11.     The Government endeavored to cope with the intensifying problems
facing the economy by placing tight restrictions on imports, public sector
expenditures and bank credit, reducing various subsidies, and allowing the
Taka to depreciate. In FY82 the Taka was depreciated by about 10% in rela-
tion to a basket of currencies to which it is pegged and by about 20% in
relation to the US dollar.l/ However the rate of domestic inflation,
spurred on by sharp increases in foodgrain prices in mid FY82, the adjust-
ments in the exchange rate and rapid expansion of domestic liquidity in late
FY81 accelerated and the consumer price index increased by 15% over the 12
month period ending June 1982.
12.     Faced with continuing prospects of unfavorable terms of trade and
stagnating resource availabilities, the Government, in the FY83 budget (in
July 1982), introduced a wide range of policy measures designed to adjust the
economy to the country's serious resource constraints. Projected development
expenditures for FY83 were reduced by nearly 20% in line with resource
availabilities, while the increase in recurrent expenditures is being limited
to 14%, only slightly above the forecast inflation level. The Government
also introduced new tax measures expected to yield Tk 1.17 billion (about
0.5% of GDP) in FY83. In addition, a number of substantial subsidy and
pricing adjustments aimed at reducing consumption and protecting investments
were made. Ration prices of wheat and rice were increased by 11% and 8%,
respectively and fertilizer prices were increased by 14% on average. The
Government also recognized the need to improve the financial performance of
public sector enterprises and utilities; ahd product prices and rates were
raised substantially in the case of petroleum products (41%), electricity
tariffs (40%) and natural gas (13%). These measures are expected to channel
resources from private consumption to public investment and, together with a
cash surplus on the food account noted earlier, will help improve the overall
budgetary position, and restore a greater measure of financial stability.
1/ Change from end-June 1981 to early June 1982.



-5-
External Debt
13.     Debt s-rvice payments on medium and long term debt totalled US$94
million in FY80 and US$92 million in FY81. Bangladesh's debt service ratio,
about 12.9% in FY80 following some debt relief measures undertaken by various
donors, remained at this level in FY81. The debt service ratio might exceed
20% by the mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued and
aid is provided on concessional terms. Bangladesh's total outstanding and
disbursed external public debt amounted to just under US$3.6 billion as of
June 30, 1981 with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 30% of
the total. In FY81, the Bank Group accounted for 3% of Bangladesh's total
debt service payments: because assistance is now entirely in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
14.     The Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP), issued in draft form in May 1980,
accords high priority to four major goals: (i) achievement of
self-sufficiency in foodgrains by FY85, with domestic foodgrain production
targeted to increase to 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the
population growth rate with a view to bringing down the net reproduction rate
to unity by 1990; (iii) progress towards mass literacy through free universal
primary education; and (iv) emphasis on energy development, particularly
through accelerated exploitation of known reserves of natural gas.
15.     The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is con-
siderable. Surface and groundwater resources permit a substantial expansion
of irrigation, which in turn would permit increased fertilizer use and shifts
to high yielding varieties of rice. The Government has formulated, with
assistance from IDA, a Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) which
provides an investment portfolio geared towards the attainment of the SFYP
target of 20 million tons of foodgrains. This target is now being scaled
down in view of the country's resource constraints. The achievement of even
this revised target will depend considerably on the allocation of sufficient
resources to provide needed inputs to Earmers and to permit the private
sector to play an expanded role in the provision and servicing of modern
agricultural implements and inputs. Other necessary requirements are ade-
quate levels of foreign aid to finance imported inputs, improved extension
services and training, and appropriate producer incentives.
16.     Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
far, especially with regard to birth control efforts which have generally
suffered from poor implementation and have had only limited success.
Recently, however, birth control activities within the Government have been
coordinated, while training programs for field staff have been revised and
are now, for the first time, considered adequate. GOB is now preparing, with
bank assistance, a medium-term implementation plan for the population sector.



-6-
17.     The third major objective of the SFYP is the attainment of general
literacy. The Government recognizes that achievement of the goal will take
longer than five years, but it has set itself the ambitious target of intro-
ducing universal primary education and enrolling 90% of all children of
primary-school age by 1985. IDA is assisting GOB in preparing a medium- term
plan for the education sector.
18.     A Plan aimed at effecting significant departures from past trends
will place severe strains on financial resources and managerial skills. A
major challenge which the Government is now facing is to translate the objec-
tives of the SFYP into an operational implementation program on an annual
*basis. The Government is now revising the draft SFYP, but more work and
considerable discipline are needed to identify core programs and projects and
protect them to the extent possible in a situation of resource scarcity. A
critical factor will also be the extent to which project implementation
capabilities are improved. Although immediate improvements can be made, it
is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies alone would be adequate to
achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government recognizes that in certain
key areas greater reliance will have to be placed on the private sector. It
also believes that, to a certain extent, activities such as education and
rural development should be carried out in a decentralized fashion, with
greater emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots participation.
19.     Over the past few years, a series of studies undertaken by IDA, GOB
and other organizations has concluded that existing trade and industrial
policies have distortionary effects on resource allocations within the
industrial sector. The Government is now preparing a program for trade and
industrial policy reform which is expected to lead to a medium-term program
of actions to be pursued across a broad front, including modifications in the
tariff structure, the pattern of domestic indirect taxation, investment
incentives, export policies and the mechanism for industrial promotion and
planning.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
20.     Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of
eleven credits, amounting to US$147.11 million, made originally to Pakistan
before 1971; in addition, a consolidation loan of US$54.9 million and credit
of US$31.04 million to cover liabilities arising from projects located in
Bangladesh and completed prior to independence was approved in 1974. As of
September 30, 1982, 62 new credits have been approved, totalling US$2,064.67
million; of these, US$765 million have been for import credits (ten imports
program credits and two fertilizer imports credits). Annex II contains a
summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of September 30, 1982,



-7-
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh
became a member of the IFC, and three investments (for a shipbuilding com-
pany, an investment promotion company and a leather factory) have been
approved.
21.     The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(20 of the projects approved as of September 30, 1982, and two fertilizer
imports credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the
Government's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on
projects that provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer
transport, irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage
facilities. In addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is also being
placed upon complementary infrastructural projects in sectors which
facilitate agricultural development or which reduce bottlenecks constraining
the economy's overall performance. In the power sector, for example, IDA is
assisting in rural electrification and elimination of shortages of generation
capacity and distribution facilities which have been a major impediment to
utilization of existing industrial capacity. Assistance for developing
telecommunications is designed to improve the efficiency of a wide-range of
economic and social activities.
22.     Industry has been the main beneficiary of the ten imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the
economy, program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA
operations in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two
fertilizer production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project,
several DFC and small-scale industry projects and three IFC loans.
23.     The enormity of Bangladesh's population program makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive
capacity. IDA has made two credits available in support of GOB's population
program, which is now making some progress. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
24.     Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements have lagged behind expectations, owing largely
to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts, employment of
consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays were serious
constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, overcentralized
bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. IDA and GOB have
given increased attention to regular monitoring and supervision in order to
identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providing assistance both
under specific projects and under technical assistance credits to improve
planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.



-8-
25.     In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position and
savings/investment gap, IDA credits should continue to cover all foreign
exchange costs and a portion of local currency expenditures.
26.     Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on economic policy and
development strategy. It is also designed to enhance the coordination of
external assistance within the framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent
activities have concentrated on food policy, irrigation strategy, industrial
investment strategy, energy development, and increased domestic resource
mobilization.
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
27.     As of mid-1982, Bangladesh had about 110,000 direct exchange lines
(DEL's) in service and 141,000 telephones of all kinds serving its population
of 93 million. Its telephone density of 1.3 telephones per 1,000 people is
among the world's lowest, and compares to 1.0 per 1,000 in Burma, 1.2 in
Nepal, 3.8 in India, 4.3 in Pakistan and 5.7 in Sri Lanka. The average for
developing countries in Asia for which statistics are available is about six
per 1,000; the world average is more than 100 per 1,000. About 91% of the
telephones in Bangladesh are concentrated in urban areas; over 90% of the
population has no access to telephone service. Of the 68,300 villages and
communities in Bangladesh, only 1,080 (1.6%) have telephone facilities.
28.     Long-distance telephone service in this flat country criss-crossed by
large rivers and waterways is provided by microwave and UHF/VHF radio sys-
tems. Practically all division, district, and subdivision cities are con-
nected either directly to Dhaka by high- or medium-capacity telephone links,
or to their division center by smaller-capacity links. The rest of the
country is served, where installations exist, by small capacity VHF radio
systems and, in some cases, by open wire lines. Since 1978, international
services have been provided by a satellite earth station located in the
southeastern part of the country.
29.     Even in areas where access to service is available, the demand for
telephones far exceeds the available facilities. As of mid-1982, the
expressed unsatisfied demand for new telephones was 40,000, i.e., 36% of the
working DEL's. Current expressed demand does not, however, fully reflect
actual demand at existing prices because: (a) many potential subscribers are
discouraged from applying by the current long waiting lists and waiting
periods (in excess of four years in Dhaka and longer elsewhere); (b) demand
is not registered in areas currently without telephone service; and (c) in
small towns, where telephones are primarily used for long distance calls,
potential subscribers are discouraged by the current poor quality of long
distance telephone service.



-9-
30.     Because of the large unsatisfied demand, existing telephones are
heavily used, keeping them busy for long periods. This generates repeat call
attempts and results In call traffic congestion. In the three principal
cities of Dhaka, Chittagong and Khulna, about 50% of the calls dialed by
subscribers fail during business hours--35% because of a busy signal or no
answer and the rest because of technical problems. Some switching equipment
and cable plant is old and needs replacing, and maintenance standards are
poor.
Sector Organization
31.     The telecommunications sector in Bangladesh is comprised of the
Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board (TTB), a small telecommunications
industry consisting of two companies owned jointly by GOB (82%) and Siemens
A.G. of the Federal Republic of Germany (18%) which manufacture telephone
switching equipment and cables, and TTB's "telegraph workshop" which produces
tubular steel poles, line materials, and cabinets. A Secretary to the
Government within the Ministry of Communications (MOC), Department of Post,
Telegraph and Telephone (PT&T) has general supervision over the sector.
32.     TTB was established in 1976 and reorganized in 1979 as a Government
Board under the aegis of PT&T. It is controlled by a Board of Directors
whose seven members include representatives of the Ministries Communications,
and Finance and Planning. TTB operates all public telecommunications serv-
ices within Bangladesh and to other countries, as well as specialized serv-
ices such as maritime radio and transmission facilities for the Bangladesh
Broadcasting and Television Department, Bangladesh Railways, Civil Aviation
and other Government agencies. TTB also licenses all independent private
networks. The Board's current inability to provide adequate public services
means that a number of Government ministries and other organizations which
rely on dependable communications for their operation must pay a relatively
high price for private VHF and HF communication systems.
Sector Objectives
33.     The Government's objectives in the telecommunications sector under
the FY81-85 Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP) are to:
(a) initiate an immediate improvement in the quantity, quality
and sophistication of telecommunications services and
facilities;
(b) increase the number of small towns and remote areas with
access to telephone service (the number of rural telephones
is to be increased 60% by 1985);



-10-
(c) continue present efforts to improve sector production and
efficiency by strengthening TTB's development planning,
construction and operation capabilities, and by improving the
organization and productivity of the domestic industry;
(d) continue recent improvements toward the semi-autonomous
organization and management of TTB to facilitate the financing
of all of TTB's own local currency needs and the generation
of substantial surpluses for governmental use in other
sectors; and
(e) begin the changeover to a more modern and appropriate
electronic switching and networking base for the national
telecommunications system in the medium and longer term.
34.     TTB had prepared a comprehensive investment program for the SFYP,
which consisted of on-going projects from previous plans (expected to be
completed by the end of FY83) as well as new investments, and was estimated
to cost about US$300 million with a foreign exchange component of US$104
million. Budget constraints have caused a reduction in program scope and
costs are now expected to total about US$150 million with a foreign exchange
component of US$61 million.
The Bank Group's Role in the Sector
35.     To date, IDA credits totaling US$35.6 million have been provided for
development of the telecommunications sector in Bangladesh. The First
Telecommunications Project, Credit 343-BD approved in 1972, financed the
completion of works begun in 1969 under Credit 145-PAK in what was then East
Pakistan, including installation of four microwave systems throughout the
country and reorganization of the Telegraph and Telephone Board. The project
was completed in 1980 and a project completion report (PCR) is being
prepared. All links are currently in operation. The Coastal Area
Rehabilitation and Cyclone Protection Project, Credit 339-BD approved in
1972, contained a telecommunications component to help save lives during
future cyclones by providing a telecommunications warning system. The
project was completed in 1979; a current status report indicates that over
92% of project installations (two microwave links, UHF arnd fixed and mobile
VHY systems, voice frequency telegraphs and multiplex systems) are in working
order.  A PCR is being prepared.  The Reconstruction Imports Program, Credit
345-BD approved in 1972, included US$2.1 million to finance the import of
goods to replace and restore priority telecommunications destroyed during the
struggle for independence. The project was completed and fully disbursed by
its closing date in 1975.
36.     The Second Telecommunications Project, Credit 487-BD approved in
1974, helped expand the telephone system by 65,000 exchange lines or
approximately 50% of present installed capacity. It also provided for the



-1 1-
installation of additional microwave and other transmission systems and
greatly expanded service to rural areas. Most of the works under the project
were completed by June 1981; construction of one international and four trunk
exchanges for the nationwide subscriber dialing system (NWD) is still under-
way and expected to be completed by June 1983.
37.     In addition to sector expansion, the IDA-assisted projects have
contributed to institution building in the telecommunications sector. Credit
487-BD assisted in the establishment of a semi-autonomous Board with respon-
sibility for operation, maintenance and development of public telecommunica-
tions services within the country. With the aid of consultants, the techni-
cal, administrative, and financial capabilities of TTB have been greatly
strengthened. Since 1980 the pace of project implementation has improved
considerably.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.     The project was prepared by TTB, appraised in May 1981 and, as the
result of changes in project size and scope, updated in April 1982. A staff
appraisal report (Report No. 3646-BD dated December 28, 1982) is being circu-
lated separately to the Executive Directors. A Supplementary Project Data
Sheet is attached as Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington in
October 1982. The Bangladesh delegation was led by Mr. M. A. Rashid, Addi-
tional Secretary, Ministry of Communications.
Objectives and Description
39.     GOB has long recognized the need for adequate telecommunications
facilities as an essential part of the infrastructure required for economic
and social growth, efficient administration and better utilization of exist-
ing resources; the proposed project would assist in achieving these objec-
tives. Specific project components, which represent about 50% of TTB-s total
investment program under the SFYP and 75% of proposed new works, are:
(a) supply and installation of telephone exchanges for about
16,000 lines of electronic switching equipment, and pulse
code modulation (PCM) transmission systems on existing and
new junction cables;
(b) rehabilitation, reconstruction and expansion of local
cable networks to enable redistribution and connection of
channels on existing links;



-12-
(c) supply and installation of long distance transmission facil-
ities, including completion of a 960-channel microwave radio
telephone system between Dhaka and Chittagong, and additional
multiplex transmission equipment for about 2,800 channels on
existing primary and secondary links;
(d) supply and installation of 16 base stations for multi-access
VHF radio systems to expand telephone service to new rural
and isolated zones, together with 20 UHF radio links on
tertiary routes, small exchanges and long distance Public
Call Offices (PCO) to provide and improve access to telephone
service for about 2,600 rural subscribers and 90 long distance
PCO s;
(e) supply and installation of equipment to enable the existing
earth station to work with the INTELSAT V communications
satellite to increase international telecommunications
services;
(f) construction of technical buildings for telephone exchanges
and transmission centers at 24 locations, and provision and
installation of air conditioning and ancillary building
equipment, local network construction and operation aids
and testing equipment;
(g) construction and equipment of a small regional telecommunica-
tions training center at Bogra for about 120 technician
trainees; and
(h) provision of (i) technical assistance for program and project
implementation and for organization of TTB's finances and
commercial accounts, and (ii) overseas training for TTB staff.
Implementation and Technical Assistance
40.     The project would be implemented by TTB and is expected to be com-
pleted by March 1987. TTB staff would install most of the transmission and
local line equipment; microwave and UHF systems and switching equipment would
be installed by the suppliers. To assure efficient planning and implementa-
tion of the project, and the satisfactory operation and maintenance of the
existing and more complex future network, the project would provide 42-man
months of expert and consultant services in the fields of program planning
and monitoring, equipment and network design, construction supervision,
preparation of technical specifications, and administration and finance.
This assistance would complement technical assistance already provided by the
German government for switching and local network planning and development,
and by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) for training. By



-13-
June 30, 1983 TTB will engage the services of a switching consultant and of a
financial consultant (Section 3.03 of the draft DCA).
Training
41.     TTB's training facilities, financed with assistance from UNDP and
the German government, are good but need to be expanded to meet growing
training needs at all levels and in various technical fields. There are two
principal telecommunications training centers at Dhaka and Khulna designed to
provide courses for supervisors and engineer-level technical staff. For
lower level staff, there are five divisional training subcenters providing
technical and vocational training.  In all, some 650 students can attend
courses at any one time; about 16,000 student-weeks of training were provided
during FY82. A new training center at Bogra, with the capacity to train 120
students at a time, will be financed under the project as well as 70
man-months of overseas staff training for TTB staff. A telecommunications
staff college for senior technical and management staff is expected to become
operative by FY85 with UNDP assistance.
Project Costs and Financing
42.     The total project cost is estimated at US$69.7 million, including
US$29.0 million in foreign exchange and US$15.8 million in duties and taxes.
This estimate includes price contingencies of 8% per annum for foreign costs
and 11% per annum for local costs over the project period. No physical
contingencies have been provided as cost estimates are based on detailed
engineering for systems having specific capacities and using equipment
already in service in Bangladesh. Technical assistance and overseas training
costs are based on an average of $11,000 per man-month for consultants and
experts and $3,400 for trainees, which includes the appropriate man-month
rate and travel, subsistence and other allowances.
43.     The proposed credit of US$35.0 million would finance 65% of total
project costs less duties and taxes (88% of foreign exchange costs and 39% of
local costs less duties and taxes). The IDA credit would finance US$25.4
million in foreign exchange costs; the US$3.6 million in foreign exchange
required to complete the Dhaka/Chittagong microwave link would be provided by
the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF), the Japanese aid agency.
Effectiveness of the financing arrangement between GOB and the Government of
Japan is a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the draft
DCA). IDA would provide US$9.6 million of the local currency requirements.



-14-
The remainder would be provided by TTB from its internal cash generation
(US$26.5 million equivalent) and GOB (US$4.5 million equivalent as equity).
Approval of the Project Proforma 1/ by the Borrower would be a condition of
credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft DCA).
44.     GOB would transfer the proceeds of the proposed credit to TTB at an
interest rate of 11.5% per annum for a period of twenty years including a
grace period of five years (Section 3.01(b) of the draft DCA).  This would
result in a slightly positive real rate of interest, assuming an estimated
medium-term inflation rate of about 11% per annum. In addition, TTB would
bear the foreign exchange risk. Issuance of an Administrative Order specify-
ing the terms and conditions of the transfer arrangements would be a condi-
tion of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft DCA). In the
past, GOB has charged TTB an annual rate of 7% on all funds used for capital
investment purposes, including TTB's internally generated funds and GOB
capital contributions. This annual charge, which would be paid to GOB by TTB
on the total equity of TTB, including retained earnings, would be increased
and maintained at a rate of at least 11.5% (Section 4.04 of the draft DCA).
Procurement and Disbursement
45.     Equipment, materials and services, including installation where
applicable and amounting to US$25.4 million including contingencies, would be
grouped in appropriate bidding packages and procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
Qualified domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation
of 15% or the import duty, whichever is lower. Some miscellaneous equipment
items costing less than $60,000 equivalent per contract and totaling not more
than US$0.9 million in the aggregate, for which early delivery is required
and for some of which only a limited number of suppliers exist, would be
procured under local procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Civil works,
amounting to US$9.6 million, which are scattered throughout the country and
unlikely to be of interest to foreign bidders, would be procured through
local competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory to IDA.  Con-
tracts for civil works would be subject to post review by IDA. Procurement
of goods estimated to cost US$250,000 or more would be subject to prior
review of bid documentation by IDA. Consultants would be engaged in accord-
ance with Bank Group guidelines. To ensure adherence to the implementation
schedule, tenders for goods representing approximately 20t of the credit
amount will have been issued in a manner satisfactory to IDA as a condition
of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(d) and Schedule 4 of the draft DCA).
1/ The Project Proforma is an internal GOB document, the approval of which
is a prerequisite for the release of funds and the hiring of staff.



-15-
46.     Disbursement would be made against 100% of the foreign exchange costs
of imported goods (c.i.f.) and services, including consultants and overseas
staff training. For locally-manufactured items, disbursement would be made
against 100% of the ex-factory costs and 80% of other local expenditures.
For civil works and locally-appointed consultants, disbursement would be made
against 80% of the contract cost or consultant fees.
TTB's Financial Position and Tariff Policies
47.     Historically, TTB-s financial performance has been good, both in
terms of financial returns and internal cash generation. During the FY77-81
period, the internal cash generation as a proportion of capital investment
rose from 8% to 52% and averaged about 30% for the period; it is expected
to finance about 53% of TTB's total development program during the FY81-85
period. TTB's operating ratio is about 57% and is expected to remain at
around that level throughout the project period. In 1977, TTB employed
consultants to revalue the gross fixed assets which existed as of June 30,
1976, and the value of fixed assets has been adjusted annually since that
time. Under previous projects, TTB was required to obtain a rate of return
on revalued assets of 8% for FY76, FY77 and FY78, and of 10% thereafter. The
actual rates of return were 12% in FY77, 10% in FY78, 7% in FY79, 14% in FY80
and 23% in FY81. The poor rate of return in FY79 was counteracted by a
tariff increase which began in FY80. To ensure its continuing financial
viability, beginning with FY84 and for each fiscal year thereafter, TTB would
be required to achieve a rate of return of not less than 15% on revalued net
fixed assets in operation. The method of revaluing TTB's fixed assets
annually is now under review and a method would be agreed upon by TTB and IDA
not later than June 30, 1983. TTB would use this agreed method to calculate
its rate of return starting with FY84 (Sections 4.05(b) and (d), and 4.06 of
the draft DCA). The rate of. return on revalued assets is estimated at 20%
for FY82 and 17% for FY83. There will be an annual review of tariffs to
assess their adequacy to produce a 15% rate of return. If any such review
indicates that the tariff structure or levels are inadequate, appropriate
adjustments will be made (Section 4.05(c) and (d) of the draft DCA).
48.     Telecommunications tariffs were increased in 1973, 1976 and 1979.
The increases averaged 50%, 66% and 35% respectively, outpacing the rate of
inflation during the period. By December 31, 1983, GOB plans to increase
tariffs further (Section 4.05(a) of the Development Credit Agreement). TTB-s
tariff structure is generally in line with current practice in many develop-
ing countries, providing for higher prices in the larger urban areas and
lower prices for subscribers outside these areas. Telephone connection and
annual rental charges are set essentially according to the size of the sub-
scriber's local network. They range from Tk 500 (US$28) for both charges
in a small, 100-line manual exchange, to Tk 2,000 (US$112) for connection and
Tk 720 (US$40) for rental in multi-exchange areas. To encourage off-peak
usage, long distance tariffs are reduced 50% between 9:30 p.m. and 8:30 a.m.



-16-
Billing and Collection
49.     For automatic exchanges, rentals are billed monthly in advance and
call charges are billed monthly after they have been incurred. The billing
system is computerized. The system for preparing and issuing bills takes
about 20 days at present, and there have been no significant delays beyond
this. A subscriber can pay his bill at any post office, bank or telephone
office. If a subscriber has not paid his bill within 15 days, a reminder is
sent for payment within seven days; if no payment is received, telephone
service is scheduled to be suspended within a further seven days, and sub-
sequently disconnected if no satisfactory settlement is made. Although bills
are not always paid in a timely manner, the threat of suspension and discon-
nection has served as a sufficient deterrent that the number of accounts
receivable for more than 60 days has never been more than 10% of total
accounts, a very low percentage compared to those of other countries, espe-
cially those in the developing world. Accounts receivable as at June 30,
1980, were Tk 80.0 million, representing about 14% of TTB's total revenues
for 1980. This coefficient has been fairly consistent over the previous four
years and is acceptable.
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting
50.     TTB's degree of financial autonomy has improved over the past two
years. Funds for TTB and the income generated by it are now placed in a
separate account within the Bank of Bangladesh. TTB prepares annual budget
forecasts and these are presented to its board for approval prior to being
forwarded for final approval to the central government authorities via the
Ministry of Communiciations. The agreed upon Government budget funds are
then transferred to TTB as needed. Since the Government is in control of
resource allocation to TTB, it can determine the size and scope of TTB's
capital expansion. TTB does, however, have the authority to make minor
changes to allocations within the agreed overall budget plan.
51.     In the past, TTB has prepared its annual financial statements on a
cash basis. Over the past two years, a firm of consultants has developed and
provided the training necessary for the introduction of a commercial account-
ing system within TTB. Beginning with FY83, TTB would annually prepare
commercial financial statements (Section 4.01(a) of the draft DCA). There
have been discrepencies in TTB's recent budget documents, primarily the
result of the lack of defined budget methodology and an apparent lack of
coordination between TTB's engineering and financial departments. With the
assistance of outside consultants, TTB would prepare a revised budget system
satisfactory to IDA which would be introduced by June 30, 1984 and thereafter
maintained (Section 3.02(a)(ii) of the draft DCA).



-17-
Audit
52.     The Controller Auditor General of PT&T is TTB's external auditor.
TTB has recently created an internal audit unit and appointed a Director of
Internal Audit, steps which should reduce the time it has taken to prepare
audited accounts. Unaudited and audited financial reports would be submitted
to IDA as follows: for FY83, 9 and 12 months respectively after the end of
the fiscal year; for FY84, 7 and 10 months respectively; for FY85, 5 and 8
months respectively; and for FY86 and thereafter, 3 and 6 months respectively
(Section 4.02(b) and (d) of the draft DCA).
Benefits and Risks
53.     Benefits from the proposed project would, in varying degrees, reach
all segments of the population in Bangladesh through increased Government
and business efficiency and the resulting lower costs for goods and services.
The project would have a significant impact on access to telecommunications
service by currently unserved smaller urban and rural communities, and iso-
lated commercial and industrial enterprises. The percentage of rural
telephone lines would increase from 6% to about 10%. Most of the country's
outlying areas with large rural populations would be served with radio
telephone systems enabling a substantial new segment of the population to
gain access to telephone service for the first time through the introduction
of small exchanges and PCO's. In addition, it is estimated that over the
1983-86 period there would be a net transfer of funds from TTB to GOB of
about US$84 million which would be available for investment in other sectors.
54.     The internal financial rate of return on the entire TTB FY82-87
investment program, rather than just the IDA-assisted project, is 26%. This
rate of return understates the real benefits to be derived from the invest-
ment program, partly because the benefits stream used in the calculation does
not take into consideration a portion of the indirect and external benefits
which-are received by non-users of the service. Applying a standard conver-
sion factor of 0.83, the quantifiable economic rate of return on the invest-
ment program is 24%.
55.     The project offers limited risk, the principal risk being the pos-
sibility of delayed physical implementation due to unforeseen circumstances
and any accompanying delay in benefits. In telecommunications projects,
which involve a relatively large number of independent activities, delay in
the completion of a few works does not generally prevent the use of other
newly created assets. Furthermore, costs and benefits are often delayed in
roughly the same degree, thus not significantly affecting the rate of return.
A sensitivity analysis on the internal financial rate of return shows that a
combination of 10% higher capital costs and 10% lower revenues would result
in a return of 20%.



-18-
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions
of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III. Conditions of credit
effectiveness would be:  (i) that the Project Proforma has been approved
(para 43); (ii) that the financing arrangement between GOB and Japan has
become effective (para 43); (iii) that the Administrative Order transferring
proceeds of the proposed credit has been issued (para 44), and (iv) that GOB
has issued tenders for procurement of goods representing at least 20% of the
proposed credit (para 45).
57.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
58.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by
E. Stern
Washington, D. C.
December 29, 1982



-19-
Page I
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV5^AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             144.0                                  HOST RECENT        LOW INCOME                  MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       97.3               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC                ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    40.0         70.0     130.0                261.4                    890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          ..         24.9      39.7               448.7                     701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 53491.0       68117.0   88513.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.1             7.6      11.0                17.3                      32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        141.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          321.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        371.5       473.0      600.7               158.1                     255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    561.9         703.0      889.0               355.9                    1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           44.3        46.3       42.8                36.8                      39.9
15-64 YRS.                           52.5        51.0       54.6                59.7                      56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.2         2.7        2.6                 3.5                       3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.9          2.4       2.6                 2.0                       2.3
URBAN                                3.6         6.3        6.5                 3.3                       3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       53.5        49.2       45.3                29.3                      31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       28.1         22.7      18.2                11.0                       9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.6          3.4       2.9                 2.0                       2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       373.0    1607.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        8.9/c              19.3                      36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           106.0       101.0       97.0               108.1                     115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    87.3         84.7         ..                97.3                     106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            43.9        42.7         ..                56.9                      54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          9.1         8.7         ..                20.0                      13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       24.8        23.0       20.0                10.9                       6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.3          41.6       46.3                57.8                      59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            159.0       150.3      136.1                89.1                      63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        45.0       53.0/d              32.9                      32.0
URBAN                                 ..         13.0      15.0/i              70.7                      51.9
RURAL                                 ..        47.0       55.0/i              22.2                      20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         6.0        5.0/e              18.1                      37.7
URBAN                                 ..          ..       40.0/i              72.7                      65.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                 4.7                      24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                ..      8427.2/f 12691.9/c             3297.8                    8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..     76808.3   40489.7/i             4929.3                    4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 ..      7021.5/j  4499.3/c             1100.4                    1047.5
URBAN                                 ..       818.5/j  627.4/c               301.3                     651.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..   23362.4/c            5815.7                    2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..        ..                   ..                     27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..         5.9/h      5.8
URBAN                                 ..         6.17       6.1
RURAL                                 ..          5.97Ti    5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..       3.5
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..



-20-
TABLE 3A
SAN0LX5TIW_SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANCLADESH                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV;IAOES
-  MOST RECZNT ESTIMATZ8)
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME                 MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC               ASIA A PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ACJU8D ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  47.0        52.0       65.0                97.4                      96.2
MALE                  66.0         68.0      79.0               101.0                      99.8
FEMALE                26.0        34.0       49.0                87.8                      92.1
SECONDARYt   TOTAL                   8.0        19.0       25.0                53.0                      37.6
MALE                  14.0         29.0      38.0                63.8                      41.1
FEMALE                 1.0          8.0      11.0                41.3                      34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   1.0            0.8       0.7                 1.7                      20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               ..        45.1       43.8                37.7                      35.5
SECONDARY                             ..        26.4       24.9                20.2                      25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         21.6         23.0/h    26.0/c              52.1                      73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGEi CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         0.4        0.4                 1.5                       9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          6.0       8.2                35.4                     116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..        0.5                 3.2                      37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ,            ,,       4.7                16.4                      53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        ..                 3.6                       2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LA0OR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    19251.6       23611.0   31477.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2         16.6      17.5                29.5                      33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               87.0         86.0      74.0                70.0                      52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.0         3.0       11.0                15.0                      17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.0         34.7      35.6                40.0                      38.5
MALE                                  58.7         55.9      56.9                 51.8                     50.5
FEMALE                                11.4         11.9      12.9                23.8                      26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3          1.4       1.3                  1.0                      1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3/i           ..      14.6/k
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.57?        44.1/      42.2/.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.97?          8.7'4     6.97k
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.97i         19.6/:    18.27.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     139.0/c             133.8                     194.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..     111.O/              111.1                     155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                   ..                    178.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                   ..                    164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      86.0/c              43.8                      24.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..      86.0/;              51.7                      41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /j 1972; /h 1973; /i 1964;
/j 1967, /k 1974:
May 1982



-21-
Page 3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nocee   Although eth  data are drccn from  sources generally judged the most aotbnrtc.ttve and re-libe. it ubehid eiee be neted that they say ct be Octe-
setih.ally cesparoble becaude of the lack of standardieed defieltiuna end conceyta used by differe. t cecete l h collecteg Thed da.  Theata are  gne-
theles.  useful to desoeibe orders of  egnitude. indicate trends, end chbrceterleecartaei  major differences besweeneoeuurea.
The reference grgusp are (1) the same countey group of the cubject countey aLd (2) a ceetry group vith gewenhat higher average ilcome that the counery group
ef the subject  .oetry (accept fee    Nigh Iccme   Oil EIporters" grop ehere "middle In-eo   North Africa end Riddle Est" ts choeen because of                      e
ffiitie.  Isg the rerrete grcyp data   atho-g   ace r  popolutics weighted arithetic macc for each l                       edicator end cho   osy  hen
maerty efchuuete le gopha 11leLdata for shot idiuator.  Diece the euverage ef conre  oogte  cl1or   ecd  cc th   viaihc    fd
asd ha not oulfere. custioc must he eercised in relhting a-crages of one indicator to asother   These average.   are osly otel  is cenpurieg the ealue of
oee  indicator at a time a-meg the country end r-frresce group.
AREA (tho--and sqIm.)                                                                           PePulatiln pIr Ho-pitah Red - total, urac  aend rural - Popeultiec (tetal.
Tocal  - Tol surface area cepptia1eg lhnd area aend inand waterg; 1979 dta.                     urban, cd  orch) didided by their reagpetive somber of heapital beds
Agricultural - Esticate of agricohturah ares uped tempererily or persasently                    available in pyblic and private g.serah aed gpecialized hospital and re-
fer crops, pacture. market and kitchen garden- or to hie fahlov; 1979 data.                  hbbiltatien cuttert   Sespitala  are establithnen.t  permacetly stcffed
by at leest oee  physician.   Itabhihdmeeta provfds  prieciphlhy  -ete-
GNP POR CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at corrent socket prices, ca-                     dilh care ore set iscluded   Rural hosfitlal. hoeer. inchude heaith
cohated by ame cenversien method      Red Sank Atlas  (19-g  haste); 190,                       and iedc- i  centere ret persenenthy staffed by a physician (but by a
1970  atd hOES data.                                                                             edical cssletcIt, ecre   midwife  etc.) vhich offer in-patlent o'cemo-
deteeo and pronide a lsi.tad rasge of bedical  acciliti-s  yer ecttn-
ENERGy CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Anoual coinImyption of cos=erciLl energy (coah                     ical purrposes orbun hoapitahs Isclude ROs prlechpal/genertl heypitlt ,
and lignite, petroleum-  natural ga  and hydre-. enuear and geothermal elc-                     end rnura  hospitah.s lcal or rorci hospitals and bedicah atd matersity
ticity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita; 1960, 1970, end 1979                       center.  Specihlized hospitals are included only under turol.
data,                                                                                         AdmIssions per  Issytal Bed - Total number of admissins. So on dinchargeg
frem hecyltaha dinided by thu comber of beds,
POPULATION AND VITAL. STATISTICS
T-tel Popnlatie, Nid-Year (theousnd-) - Ah  of July 1; 19601  1970. and 1980                HOUSING
data~~~~~                                                            Anllc0c  ,   oseodfcen   e  house hold) - otl  uhc,an   url
Urbda  Populatien (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total population;                     A  h..eh  ofld 0consRtsof a group oPf tidioidualL she share ilvirg quartern
difierent defeinitons ,of orb an areac may effect c_op_rcbility of dute                       snd theIr sate meals   A boarder or lodger cry or cay not bh  included in
among cececrien; 196D, 1970, and 1980 data,                                                  the ho.ushold for statistical porpoeus
Pnpulation Prefectiens                                                                        Average number of cargoes rer coos - tutul, urbn, and rural -ineregeu-
Poruhottec in year 2000 - Correct pepulatihe  projeotloec are  based en 1980                  her of perseem  per room in all urban  and rural occupied cesceet1onul
toItl populotion by oge and set *nd their mortality end fertlity eaten                     deelligi, rempec-ti-ly.   wellinsg excludee  e-perdacentctructuread
Prejeclien parameters t for  _actelIty rates "oepr"ie of three level-  assus-               .neccupied parts.
ing life espectancy at birth Increasing sich cuu.try'n per copita looe                   Accegs to flectricity (perceer of dveslilgef  - tetul orbn, 6nd rural -
level, and feaale lifl  copoctancv ntabilizing at 77.5 yearn   The paca-                   Cuoventienal dwellings nith electricity in lining qoarteri c  perc...tg
meters for fertility rate also hove three levels assuming decline in                       of tetal. urban, end rural delliegs respectively.
ferrility according ti incece level end past flsily plansing perf-omasce
loch  oelntry is then ancigted  one of chese nice ce.bie-tiinm  of mertelity           EDUCATION
aid fertility trrend  for proj eJtio  purpets.                                            Adjusted Enrohi11nt Rotite
stasie...ry perola ieo-Inon.tIt.ieiry popuhotieo ther  e inoe groeth                           rsroho      oal   aeadfml     rn   tetu1. malt end female
the birth rute in eqal to tbh  death rote,  andao the age  strdvth   c-                      esro11 ..t Iof al1 ag;b  it the priarby henr G   i percentges of ren  
mainoIonesact   ThiN is achieved only after btrtility rates decline to                        primary cchooh-agl   poyutiess  normally Inclodee ohildree aged 6-11
the replacenent level of onit net reprodoction rate, veh  each geecratiIc                     y.ars but adjusted for different tegslnn of primary education; for
of ecree replaces itself exactly   The stationary population  si  can                         coutries with usitersel edu_tles1enrellmant may  ced 100 perceet
etimated on the baeis of the projected char-cteristign of the peoplatioe                      since nam  pupils are belec or abovi the effioial scheol  gc.
c she year 2000. and the rate of de-line of fcrtilily rate to replace-                     Secendary school - tital  male asd female - Computed as above; secondary
mat len.                                                                                      education reutiree at lert four yearn of approend primary inscructics;
Year stati.n..y popolstiet in reached - The year ahen etatfenary pepulatinn                     providE- geer l, veCatiecal  Ierteatbertro ngne e                       pEerpi
ukee siltb hr_ebed                                                                            I,uhy  l1   e7yar           Bfae;  errInodec  scrseg arc generally
Popal.tie DRensity                                                                                ecluded
Per eq.  e. - Mid-year poputien per squar  kilomtnr (100 hecturec) of                      Vecit.enal enrolltnt (Percent ef s.encndry) - yecational iustitutionm
total are; 1910, 1970 aend 1979 daa.                                                        include technical, indutrial.  or ether pregrum   shich operate independ-
Per sq. k. aericulral land - Coc-pued as abeve for agricultural lad                           ently or aa deparctmers of  -econdary instiotions
enly, 1960, 1970 aed 1979 data,                                                          pupil-teaher ratle  -                              Trmtaryt and secotdry -Totalstudent  enrclied In
Populotiet Age structure (percent) - Childrin (0-14 y-erg), vrkig-age (15-                     prim.ry and secondary levels divided by nmbern of teachers i          b the
h4 years), and retired (65 y.e.r  and over) as pcr-ensugcs of mid-year popu-                  corre-pudfng levelas
ictoc; 1960  1970, and 1980 dat                                                            Adult literaty rait  fperceos) - Literate adolts (able sorted and wsius)
Pipulatlen Irsath Rotc (percent) - torch - Annual groth ractes of total mid-                    sa perctentge of turd  adult populatieo  aged 15 years and ever
year poyplatlio for 1950-60, 1960-7., end 1970-80.
Pspnlattee frensh Sate (perceot) - urban - A,noua  grenth reten of ocbhe  pepo-            CONSUhPTION
lasiens for 1950-6   1960-70. and 1970-f.O                                                  Pacsenger Care  (er theo.usd populttien) - Pansesger cars -emprist macer
Crude 3irth Rate (per thoufand) - Annual Iiv  births per thousand of mid-year                   cars seating lees than eight persecs; excludes e .l.a.ceo, hearses end
ppoplation  1960  1970  and 1980 data.                                                        mlitaryovhices
Crude Death Sate (per rhuogand) - Anoual deache per th.u.sand  of mid-year                   RSdie Receeiers (per thougaud pepulatioe) - All types of receiver  for radio
popelatiton  19j60  1970  and 1990 data.                                                      hreedsas,t  so general public par thousand of yapu.tptei; eoclodes us-
Cress  Reproduction Sace - Average vombir of daughhtrs a nmop   mill bear in                    licensed receivers in countries and in yearc  heln ccgistrctige of radie
her nersal rep-od-ctive period if shbe   periences present age-specific fer-                  sets was in effect; dst  for recast ycara my not bec-p-rehble .inb       .
tility rtes; .u-ally ficc-year aerags ending in 1960, 1970. and 1980.                         most ceuntries abolished licensing
Fa1ily Planning - Acceptor, Anncal (thousands) - Annual nulber of ecceptors                   TV Receivers (per th.usand pop.lotion) - TV receivers for broadcast te
ef birth-centrol devines uder euspic  of national family planisg prggrem.   1seral peblic per thousand ppulation;  -ecludes unlIcensed TV receiver
PFntly Pl.ntig -IUmers  (percelt of married ncee',-_.retge ef mrcied                            in couctries and he yrars whec -Rgitratioc of TV sets gas in effect,
em   ef chi d-b.erin g age (15-44 yeaN  eheone htirth-eutro1  de-ice. to                   Necspapun Circuantion  Pcrh thou  and .u.u. licD) - Sh..L  the averge tir-
all married wi  g In nm  age grop.                                                            culatien of "daily general interest nemapcer", defined ag a periodical
pobl!ectien deotd primarily to rcer.disg gecara1 sees,  It he considered
PFOD AND Nh'UTITION                                                                               to he "daIly" if it aPpears at least fear times a seek,
Index of Fvod prodnrtcn per Carita (1969-71.1001 .- Index ef per rapit a T   nnc-I           Cinem Anneal Atrendane Pcr Capote pcr YTar - BNsed on rh. ecc-er of
pruduotin of all food cesEt ities,  Productsian ccludes seed and feed and                     ticlets acid durtlg the year. including edmisi..s to drive-in          em
is on calendar year basis          d C iEmdhties sever priemry geoda (e.g. S uga-cae          and mobile unite
teatead ci seger) which arc edible end contaion trientc (e g. coffee and
tea are exc laded)   Aggrgcte production of each ceuntry is based en                     LA30R FORCE
narional average producer price  -eighs; 1961-65  1970,  and 1980 dte.                     Ttal Labor Forts (thuoesndn) -   .c.n..ically active pareema. including
Per capita eupyly ci caltrien (per.e.n of requoresents) - Compnted fros                         aC    friS  pui oneofcyed be es'D             Lheuseinen, stodete.  tc..
ccrgy eqolahe- of taI fe   1cp  asea ble inceontry per cc pita                              ovrieg pepolesno  of al  ae.          Rincosin vericus  -enrri. are
per dy.  Available snpplies co-priee domstic production, i=pcrta lees                         cot co-parahle; 1960, 1970 end 1980 date.
esporte, end change  in stock.   Net cupplics exclude anImal feed, seeds,                   FPeale (percent) - Femle labor force as percentage of total Ohber forte
qu nt isien used in Ocod prote..Ing,  nd lossee in distributio.  Requite-                    Agriculture (pe,cet) - inbtr forte in fa-mig,, fcrestsy.y  hntnS and
rent- were estissnted by FAl based on phygiological .eads for normal acti-                     fichicg as pertcntage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 daca,
oity aId health ccnsiderirg  nnnilcnmiosul temperature   body weights, ae                    Industry (percent) - LbnIr f.rce in mining. canoructien           nufassurieg
and see distribucior of pepulation  end allecing 10 percent forsanteat                         and e1estiicily  water and ga: us percentage If total lator force;
household level; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 data                                                   1960  1970 and 19B0 data.
Per capIta supply ef proteis (gEam_ per day) - Protein cena.nt cc per capita                 Parsici;tei9 Sate (percent) - total, mle, and feale - Partsipatin or
net supply of food per day.  Net r   pply of food is defined saboeb .  Re-                   xctivity ratag ire om puted an total  mle, and female lObr force as
quiremants for a11 coctrirn e-t-blished by USDA provide fer Leimum                            percentagen of total,  ale and female popolation of all ages respectiely;
S                                  allowances of hi erase  of total protein per day and 20 grama of animil and                    1960, 1970. and 19B0 data,    asc ara based cc ILO' participation rates
pulse protein  of vticb 10 grmaL  should be animal  pr_ein.  These stand-                     pelletsing age-gm   xrructore of the poptiletin  and long tim  trend   A
erie are lover than thoge ci 75 grams of total proteic end 23 gsE  *f                         few estImates are frum  national sources
WomiI protein es an average for the  erld, proposed by PAC in the Third                    Economic DependenoY RSaia - Rlite If populetion under 15 and 65 aend  ev
Wrld Food Survey; 1961-65, 1970 aol 1917 data,                                                to the   tchalabor force
Per capita proeti Iupply fron animal ed pIh    - Protein nupply of food de-
rived fron animals aid polses in grama per day; 1961-65  1970 and 1977 date,             INCOME DISTRIBUrTION
Child (ages h-4) DLath Sate (per tho-cend) - Annual deaths per th.osand in                    P-rcenreg of Prit-te Insose (both is oath *nd kind) - Roseiced by richest
age group 1h4 yearn, to children in ths age grou.p  for mo-t developing  oun-                 5 percent  richesr 2D percent  poorest 20 percent, and pocrent 40 percent
trief data derived fron lIfe table; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data,                                 of household.
hEALTH                                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Lilf Elpectansy at Birth (years) - Avarage nurber of years of life rEicining                  The felloeieg estitIteg are very approximata  -eag.res of peverry levels,
cc birth; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data                                                            end ih.o-d be interpreted sith considerable cautie,
Infans Nortality Rate (per thonsand) - Acnual deaths of infants under .n  year              EOsimated Abheeu.r  Poverty Incoma Lend  (ISO per capIta) -urban ccd rural -
of age per ,ho dsad live births; 1960, 1970 snd 1900 data,                                    Abolute poverty icsm  level is that insOE  level baeso which a minimal
Atness to Safe Outer (        tersees of pepolation) - tetal. urba, and rural - Num-            iutrisionally adequate diet plus n.sectial soc-food requiremnts ir not
ber of people (ttal.  urban, and rcarl) with reasocable access In cafe                        affordable
nager supply (includes treated surfaec eaters cc unscraged but uccaccamicated               Istimated gelutlee Peverty Ivoem   Level (00) per capita) - urban and coral -
cuter soul as that from protesced bhrehehl, springs,  nd sanitary wells) an                   Rural ralattee poe-rty insme level ig  -ee-third oE average per ca pita
percentagei of their rcapective populatios.    In a  uba n areaca pblic                       personal incoe of che.counry.   rIs,  level is derived freL  the rurel
founcsis or s.a.dpost located nor mare rhan ZOe  .eners frem a heuce may be                  ievel wish aiJomousn rot higher cest of living iD orba  areasn
considered as being vithin raaacmablr accesg of that h.ee.  Ih rareR areas                 Islimated Popul-tion gel.w Abseoue Poverny IY s.. Len               . fpersent) -crbIe
reasonable accee could uimply that the heu..teifa or members of the hbosehold                 and roral - Parce,t of population (urbac  and rural) she  are "absolute
dc not h     teo  te  pendadiapr..r.ri..ate pare of che day  in fetching the                  peer".
family's ster needs.
Aece   to tereta urdV   (percenot of  opuloation) - total, urba , and rural -
Oumber of people (total, urban. and rcral) served by -eoreta disposal ai
percentagec of cheir cespec-tiv  pepuherlo.  Ie.reca disposal may iOclude
the r            nllection  ad ditposal.  sith or nttcct treat nest of human estreto
and cante-catar by ater-bhece syntems or the use of pit privies and simi-
lar installaticog.
Pepua.tiec per Phystiiac - PFpulatiou divided by nenber of practiming physi-                                                        Ec..misc end c clsal Data Diiiu
ciang qualfi ed fre-  a medi.lc  achool at Suniverity le-e                                                        '          socmoic Analysis aId Pr-je-tio.n  Daprctnst
Pupehasten per Nuruing Permen - Popol-tion dioided by nomber of practising                                                                       Nay 1982
male and female graduate nurses, assstatntcnrses  practical nurses asd
iorsteggmataliurtcs.



-22-                                                            Annex I
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:       91.5 million (January 1982)
GNP Per Capita: US$120 (FY81)
Amount             Average Annual Increase (Z)         Share of GDP at Market Prices (Z)
(million US$           (in constant FY75 prices)                  (in current prices)
in current prices)
Indicator                                      FY81               FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-81        FY60       FY70       FY75      FY81
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a                       11,989                4.0       -0.6       6.0          100.0     100.0      100.0    100.0
Agriculture /a                                 6,423                3.1      -1.3        4.3          59.9       56.9       62.5      53.6
Industry /a                                    1,680                7.9      -3.2        6.0           7.7        9.6       11.3      14.0
Services 77                                    3,887                4.9        3.3       8.8          30.1       30.0       26.2      32.4
Consumption                                     11,701                4.4      -0.7        5.7          92.4       92.8       99.1      97.6
Gross domestic investment                        2,064               10.9     -10.9       20.2            6.9      11.3        8.1      17.2
Exports of goods & nfs                             859                0.8     -11.7        5.7           10.0       8.3        3.2       7.2
Imports of goods & nfa                           2,635                8.8     -12.0        3.6            9.3      12.5       10.4      22.0
Gross national savings                              639              26.5     -17.7       -8.4            0.9        6.1       1.0       5.3
Amount                                                 Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)
(million US$                                                       (in current prices)
in current prices)
FY81                                                  FY73      FY75     FY80      FY81
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                                 710.8                                               100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Primary /b                                        165.2                                                40.4     29.6      24.3      23.2
Manufactires                                      545.6                                                59.6     70.4      75.7      76.8
Merchandise imports                              2,524.0                                                100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                              342.4                                                44.1     41.5      29.1      13.6
Petroleum                                        490.1                                                  3.2     11.1      15.7      19.4
Machinery & equipment                            580.0                                                 13.8      9.6      20.0      23.0
Other                                          1,111.5                                                 38.9     37.8      35.1      44.0
FY74      FY75       FY76       FY77       FY78       FY79       FY80       FY81
PRICE AND TERMS OF TRADE INDICES (1972/73-100)
GDP Deflator                                                140.6       240.5      183.1      177.2      203.6      216.8      249.2     264.0
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                      7.9661      8.8759   14.8521   15.4667   15.1215   15.2228   15.4777   16.3447
Export price index                                          103.7       123.5      107.1      111.8      127.7      167.5      200.9     178.6
Import price index                                          152.8       194.8      186.2      183.1      179.4     218.0      250.3      283.9
Terms of trade index                                          67.9       63.4       57.5       61.1       71.2       76.8       80.3      62.9
As % of GDP
(at current prices)
FY73     FY75      FY77    FY80       FY81
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                          5.0       5.4      9.5      10.6     12.0
Current expenditure                                                      6.5       4.5      7.8       7.8       7.6
Current surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                      -1.5      +0.9    +1.7    + 2.8    + 4.4
"apital expenditure                                                      8.8       3.1      9.5      13.5      12.1                                    ?
Foreign financing                                                        7.1       2.4      6.0       8.3       7.7
FY60-70    FY70-75    FY75-80    FY80-81
OTHER INDICATORS
GMN  growth rate (%)                                                         4.2        -0.7        5.8         7.9
GNP per capita growth rate (S)                                               1.5        -3.3        3.0         5.2
Energy consumption growth rate (S)
.    not available
- not applicable
/a At market prices.
7F  Raw jute, tea and (in FY81 only) rice.
ASADD
April 15, 1982



-23-
Annex I
Page 5
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$, in current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Actual                                                  Projected
FY74      FY75        FY76      FY77       FY78       FY79       FY80       FY81          FY82       FY83
Net exports of goods                                -551    -1,050        -885       -454       -859       -946    -1,645    -1,813         -1,780    -1,938
Exports of goods                                   374        352        381        411        490        610        727        711          640        732
Imports of goods                                  -925      1,402    -1,266       -865    -1,349    -1,556    -2,372    -2,524           -2,420    -2,670
Net exports of services                              -21         12        -24        -29        -32        -27          3         11          -70       -120
Workers' remittances                                  19         34         62         81        113        143        210        377          400        450
Current account balance                             -553    -1,004        -847       -402       -778       -830    -1,432    -1,425         -1,450    -1,608
Direct private investment                             ..         ..         ..         .     .               ..         .
MLT loans (net)                                      276        498        498        238        398        420        581        481          501
Grants & grant-like flova                            174        382        245        265        393        553        591        616          650    -1,608
Other capital flows (net)                             45        275         52        -20        -38        -19        141        304          199
Change in reserves (- - increase)                     58       -151         53        -81         25      -124         119         24          100        -
International reserves (end of period)               115        266        213        294        269        393        274        250          150        150
Reserves as months of imports of next year          0.98       2.52       2.95       2.62       2.07       1.99       1.30       1.24         0.67       0.63
Actual
FY74        FY75        FY76        FY77        FY78        FY79        FY80        FY8 
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                    173.8       382.3       244.7       264.8       392.6       553.2       590.8       616.4
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                   287.4       518.9       563.5       268.3       435.3       476.8       631.4       531.0
Concessional                                     201.4      458.4        533.0       244.1       400.8       456.4       601.6       509.6
Bilateral                                     150.4       342.8        389.9      144.0        261.9      212.6        272.7       255.2
IDA                                            51.0       112.5       127.8         86.1        88.2       152.5       152.1       170.9
Other multilateral                              -            3.1        15.3        14.1        50.7        91.3       176.9        83.4
Non-concessional                                  86.0        60.4        30.4        24.1        34.5        20.4        29.8        21.4
Official export credits.                       40.6         45.2        16.5         5.6         1.7         3.3        16.8         2.0
IBRD
Other multilateral                               5.4         0.3         1.1         0.5         0.5         0.1         0.3         0.8
Private                                         40.0        14.9        12.8        18.0        32.3        17.0        12.7        18.6
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding and disbursed (end of period) 492.8    1,352.6    1,795.9    2,051.5    2,569.2    2,949.2    3,215.6    3,584.8
Official                                         383.3    1,232.8    1,689.0    1,939.8    2,435.6    2,808.3    3,068.8    3,462.1
IBRD                                            -           54.9    -  54.9         54.9        54.9        54.9        54.9        54.9
IDA                                           105.6       255.3       379.8       465.9       554.2       706.7        858.8    1,028.5
Other                                         222.8       922.6    1,254.3    1,419.0    1,826.5    2,046.7    2,155.1    2,378.7
Private                                          109.5       119.8       106.9       111.6       133.6       140.9       146.8       122.7
Undisbursed Debt                                   580.8    1,019.4        947.5    1,015.8    1,335.4    1,659.1    1,716.7    2,068.4
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                         18.0        31.3        87.4        58.5        69.2        95.1         93.7        92.0
Interest                                           7.3        10.1        21.9        28.4        32.1        38.1        43.3        42.0
Payments as X of export eirnings                     4.8         8.9        22.9        14.2        14.1        15.6        12.9        12.9
Payments as 2 of GNP                                 0.2         0.2         1.2         0.9         0.8         1.0         0.8         0.7
Average interest rate on new loans (X)               3.2         2.0         1.7         1.6         1.5         1.4          1.4         1.6
Official                                           2.9         2.0         1.6         1.5         1.3         1.4         1.2         1.5
Private                                 -          5.1         2.3         7.8         6.4         6.2         6.1         6.9         7.2
Average maturity of new loans (years)               26.1        35.5        41.6        40.1        37.7        35.9        33.6         35.9
Official                                          28.3        35.8        42.2        40.8        38.6        36.3        34.2        36.2
Private                                           13.3        15.3        11.3        11.0         9.5        14.8        19.3        18.5
BAll  ROP0EPSURAE(X
IBRD D0D/tota DOD                                      -            4.0         3.0         2.6         2.1         1.8         1.7         1.5
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements         -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -
IBRD debt service/total debt service                 -           -           1.8         5.6    -   4.8          4.1         3.7         4.0
IDA DOD/total DOD                                   21.4        18.8        21.1        22.7        21.6        24.0        26.7        28.6
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements         17.7        21.7        22.7        32.1        20.3        32.0        24.0        32.1
IDA debt service/total debt service                  1.3         3.1         2.5         5.3         5.4         4.6         6.0          7.3
As X of Debt Outstanding
at End of FY81
TERM STRUCTURE
Haturity structure of debt outstanding (Z)
Maturities due within 5 years                                         13.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                        36.8
Interest structure of debt outstanding (Z)
Interest due within first year                                         1.6
.    not available.
ASADD
April 15, 1982



-24-
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at September 30, 1982)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                            US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower           Purpose                  Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 21 credits fully disbursed                     54.90  684.32       -
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                       -      14.00     0.65
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)            -      25.00     2.77
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                       -      7.50      0.10
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II              -     20.00      5.29
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashugani Fertilizer                -     62.00      1.88
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                        -      15.00      3.43
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                 -     27.00    12.31
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation               -     22.00      7.64
621    1976   Bangiadesh   Agriculturai and Rural Training -        12.00      3.48
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                        16.00      5.97
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank             -     25.00      3.55
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                  -     16.00      2.55
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                  -     21.00    11.84
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Researchi            -     10.00      2.62
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water TransporL II          -      5.00      2.12
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                               -     21.00    13.40
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II               -     25.00    16.68
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry rI            -      7.00      3.15
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research              -      6.00      1.58
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control        1- 9.00    13.57
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance TII           -     10.00      4.37
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries              -      6.00      5.06
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                -     25.00    20.79
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population & Family Health II   -        32.00    28.93
*934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                   -      28.00    27.41
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                    -      22.00    10.48
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



-25-                        ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                       US$ million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                 Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                -        25.00    22.34
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                      -        10.00      8.83
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII             -        50.00      0.05
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                   -        37.00    21.55
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II    -           20.00    19.20
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation               -        29.00    26.79
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation               -        20.00    15.60
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation           -        11.00     9.49
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports II            -        25.00     0.20
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                   -        40.00    36.05
1065/c 1980   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry III         -        35.00    34.42
1071/c 1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program IX               -        65.00    12.80
1091/c 1981   Bangladesh   Bakhrabad Gas Development        -        85.00    50.71
1096/c 1981   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Transport
Project                      -        25.00    18.98
1117/C 1981   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II        -        50.00    44.22
1124ia  1981   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance IV         -        16.00    15.98
1140/c 1981   Bangladesh   Hand Tubewells                   -        18.00    16.30
1147L/c 1981   Bangladesh   Agricultural Credit             -        40.00    40.00
1184/c 1982   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood
Control II                   -        27.00    26.00
1194/c 1982   Bangladesh   Imports Program X                -       100.00    66.55
/c 1204/b 1982   Bangladesh   Chittagong Urea Fertilizer    -           15.00    15.00
/c 1205/b 1982   Bangladesh   Textile Industry Rehabili-
tation                       -        30.00    30.00
/c 1215/b 1982   Bangladesh   Extension and Research II         -       27.00    27.00
/c 1247/b 1982   Bangladesh   Chittagong Port                   -       60.00    60.00
/c 1254/b 1982   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Thermal Power            -       92.00    92.00
/c 1262/b 1982   Bangladesh   Rural Electrification             -       40.00    40.00
/c 1287/b 1982   Bangladesh   Second Deep Tubewells             -       68.00    68.00
Total                                                54.90  2,242.82 1,030.16
of which has been repaid                             -         0.40     -
Total now outstanding                                54.90  2,242.42 1,030.16
Amount sold                               0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       54.90  2,242.42
Total undisbursed                                            1,030.16 1,00.6
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/b   Not yet effective.
/c   IDA 6th Replenishment Credits denominated in SDRs.  Amounts of principal
shown in US$ equivalent at time of negotiation and undisbursed amounts
computed at the September, 1982 rate.



-26 -                        ANNEX II
Pa ge 3
/a
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS   (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                                         Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                 Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979      Highspeed Shipbuilding            Ship-
and Heavy Engineering            building
Co. Ltd.                                            1.20    0.36      1. 56
1980      IPDC                              DFC                 -       1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                        1.20    1.41      2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -              -        -
Total commitments now held by IFC                              1.20    1.41      2.61
Total undisbursed                                              0.65      -       0.65
7Ia The following IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1981    Asia Leather Industrial
Company Ltd.                  Tannery            2.1       .2      2.3
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation of the tubewell component is complete and a PCR
has been issued. However, the credit remains open to permit completion of a
delayed pilot command area development component which is also being financed
under the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD).
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                      ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The project closed on December 31, 1981. The Government have been
requested to confirm that no further applications for expenditure are pending
and that the undisbursed balance amount can be cancelled.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Barisal Irrigation Project I was completed on June 30, 1981 and
taken over on maintenance. Barisal extension was taken up with the savings of
BIP 1. Farmers response for the dry season (Boro) cultivation has been much
below expectation mainly due to the land tenure system and credit facilities.
However, there has been an increase of one third over the previous years
cultivation. Good progress is maintained on civil works construction in the
extension area. Procurement preliminaries for the primary pumps, gates and
low lift pumps have been completed and deliveries should have started.
Agricultural demonstration farms are in operation in the extension area.
Generally progress is satisfactory. The project could be completed before
the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: Eebruary 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation which was about 2.5 years behind schedule has
shown remarkable progress in 1981/82 and if adequate funds are released in
1982/83 completion except for flood embankments will be by June 1983. GOB
expects to provide shortly technical justifications and social reasons for the
deletion of embankments. The trend on agricultural development is encouraging
and expected benefits would be attained. The current project estimates with
embankments and including additional intricate works show a cost overrun of
37 .5%.
The fisheries component is essentially completed. The Raipur
hatchery is in full production and final disbursements are expected to be
made up to the end of 1982.
Cr. No. 631   Rural Development Project:  US$16.0 Million Credit of June 3,
1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Following a request from GOB that the credit closing date be
extended to allow completion of components initially delayed, the closing
date has been extended to June 30, 1983. Project implementation is now



- 28 -                     ANNEX II
Page 5
proceeding satisfactorily and the project should be completed according to
the new schedule. Sale of Deep Tubewells is almost complete but sale of
Low Lift Pumps is slow. The Rural Industries component has been intensified.
Project management is much improved.
Cr. No. 724   Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Progress in procurement has been satisfactory. All 10,500 pumpsets
have been procured. *About 55% of the pumpsets have already been sold. The
construction of workshops is proceeding with a modified program and workshop
equipment has been ordered.
Cr. No. 725   Muhuri Irrigation Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Project implementation which was about two years behind schedule
will suffer a further setback for delays in finalizing the design and tender
documents for the closure dam work.  The Feni Regulator is expected to be
operational in February 1983. Agricultural and IRDP activities will commence
in early 1982/83. Farmers' response for adoption of improved agricultural
practice and group formation appears good. A cost overrun is expected due
to a likely increase in the cost of the closure works.
Cr. No. 729   Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
As of September 30, 1982 US$7.38 million had been disbursed.  The
credit was closed on June 30, 1982 and payment for commitments in the pipe-
line will continue.
Cr. No. 765   Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Farmers have been encouraged to use higher quantities of fertilizer,
resulting in higher yields. As expected, higher jute production forced marginal
jute farmers to switch to rice production in the aus season. Consequently rice
production has increased. IDA credit on lending problem has also been solved.
Staff travel allowance is inadequate and that is hampering production credit
recovery effort. Staff housing component has been scaled down.



- 29 -                     ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 787   Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project had a slow start due to administrative difficulties,
problems in land acquisition and material shortages. Implementation of the
165,000 MT storage construction program has gained additional momentum and
is now satisfactory. The storage rehabilitation component has been reduced
from 25,000 MT to 10,000 MT, and the number of paddy drying from 15 MT to 5 MT
as a result of implementation delay. Contracts for rehabilitation have been
awarded for 7,750 MT, and tenders are being issued for civil works construc-
tion of paddy dryers and evaluated for drying equipment. Quality control
equipment has been procured, but considerable additional efforts are required
in the area of grain quality control and inspection. The project is now
anticipated to be completed by June 30, 1983.
Cr. No. 828   Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Million Credit of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Implementation of the project is progressing satisfactorily.
Almost all research station huildings are now complete and farm development
only remains to be finished at the Jessore and Hathazari stations. Research
programs on research stations and those supported by the research grant
scheme are being vigorously pursued. The technical monitoring scheme is now
operating well and a monitoring and evaluation cell, established at BARC
headquarters, will now apply techniques pioneered under the project to all
grant-supported research.
Cr. No. 864   Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Of the three sub-projects financed under the project, Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) are expected to be completed on schedule in
mid-1983. Delays have been experienced, however, in the implementation of the
Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE). Agreement has recently been reached on
retirement of the embankment and disbursement for this part of the project is
expected to accelerate.
Cr. No. 890   Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project is designed to assist in the development of a group of
six oxbow lakes through the introduction of composite techniques for fish
culture and improved lake management technologies. Hatchery and rearing
facilities will be established for the production of carp fingerlings for
stocking of project lakes where little stocking took place in the past. As
a result, annual carp production from project lakes is estimated to increase



- 30 -                    ANNEX II
Page 7
from 138 MT to 1,100 MT, representing an eight fold increase.  Hatchlings
and fry will also be sold to pond owners. This will have a country-wide
impact introducing for the first time fish farming technology based on
composite fish culture for small water bodies in private ownership. A
project implementation unit, supported by an international consultancy firm
has been set up within the Directorate of Fisheries. Construction of the
central hatchery at Lake Baluhar started in January 1982, some 12 months
behind schedule.  The delay was caused by managerial and administrative
weaknesses and shortage of counterpart funds. It is now expected that the
central hatchery will start operations in March/April 1983 and the satellite
hatcheries one year thereafter.  Full project benefits are expected for 1986.
Cr. No. 955   Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project:  US$25.0 Million
Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date: May 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
A total of 19 subprojects were approved in FY81 and FY82 respectively.
Construction has been completed on eleven subprojects. Progress is satisfac-
tory. However, there is a need to increase substantially the allocations to
the revolving fund to avoid delays in project implementation due to shortages
of funds. This issue is currently being discussed with GOB.
Cr. No. 990   Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Three thousand two-cusec LLPs and 1,500 one-cusec LLPs under the
Phase I sales program, were delivered in October 1980. Orders have also been
placed for the remaining 4,000 LLPs. About 40% of the LLPs under Phase I of
the sales program has been sold. A detailed project Action Plan has been
prepared. About 95% of the projected disbursements (as percentage of appraisal
estimate) has been made.
Cr. No. 1042 Mangrove Afforestation Project: US$11.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall Project performance is good. The establishment of planta-
tions was carried out according to SAR targets in 1981 and current progress
indicates that this year's target will also be achieved.  The procurement of
essential equipment and materials has been completed. The civil works program
has now started and physical progress on the first phase is estimated at
about 15%.  However, staffing remains behind the SAR target.  The implementa-
tion of the Plantation Trial Unit Program has been delayed. No activity
on the Public Relations Component has been started. As a response to the
April/May Supervision, FD has agreed to give high priority to intensify
overall activity on the lagging operations.



-31 -                      ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 1140 Hand Tubewells Project: US$18.0 Million Credit of July 8, 1981;
Effective Date: February 11, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. Civil works are complete
and plans are well in hand for local foundries to fabricate pumpheads. However,
shipment of raw materials has been delayed by preshipment inspection problems.
BUET and BARC/BARI are being contracted to carry out laboratory and field
testing of alternative handpump models.
Cr. No. 1147 Agricultural Credit Project: US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 9, 1981; Effective Date: October 6, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to farmers
for investments in minor irrigation and other agricultural development, and
to private borrowers for grain storage facilities. Progress in privatization
of shallow tubewells is proceeding very slowly. Although import licenses have
been issued to authorized private dealers, opening of the letters of credit
is delayed by a new directive not to import certain makes previously author-
ized. STW prices set by GOB are still below those of private dealers.
Appointment of consultants to assist Bangladesh Bank, the implementation
agency, is yet to be made.
Cr. No. 1184  Second Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$27.0 Million
Credit of January 8, 1982; Effective Date: July 14, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
This Credit became effective on July 14, 1982.
Cr. No. 1215 Second Extension and Research Project: USS27 Million Credit
of March 16, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1287 Second Deep Tubewells Project: US$68.0 Million Credit of
August 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527   Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreeinnrit of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date:  December         1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, i, 9;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project was cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland,
UK and US, for a total of about US$190 million equivalent, in addition to the
IDA credit. Because of the additional site works, the delays and currency



- 32 -                    ANNEX II
Page 9
fluctuations, supplemental financing was necessary and has been obtained.
The Project has now been mechanically completed. Despite continuing minor
commissioning problems, production of urea was started in December 1981, about
six months later than anticipated at the time of supplementary financing, and
total project costs are likely to be about US$15 million higher than that
approved at the time of IDA supplementary financing.
Cr. No. 632   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Institutional upgrading program instituted under the credit are
still under implementation, continuing the improvement on BSB's loan account-
ing and staff training. However, because of declining collection BSB's
financial position has weakened significantly. This area of operational
weakness is receiving close GOB/IDA attention, and IDA is coordinating
closely with ADB and KfW to implement an action program to restore BSB's
financial viability.
Cr. No. 825   Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been significant improvement in institutional
capabilities of the commercial banks; and staff of the Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation have begun preparation of subsector and area studies
for small industry promotion. The project was fully committed by the commer-
cial banks in July 1980.
Cr. No. 980   Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
As of September 30, 1982 US$49.9 million has been disbursed. The
credit was closed on February 28, 1982 and payment for commitments in the pipe-
line will continue.
Cr. No. 1023 Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$29 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financing
agreements have been executed. Consultants for providing engineering services
have been selected and their contracts approved.
Cr. No. 1032 Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been fairly satisfactory though some
delay has been experienced in the recruitment of consultants. Tender Notices



- 33 -                     ANNEX II
Page 10
for procurement of spares have been issued and those for the construction of
two new training centers are in preparation.
Cr. No. 1044 Second Fertilizer Imports Project: US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982
As of September 30, 1982 US$24.8 million had been disbursed.
The credit was closed on March 31, 1982 and payment for commitments in the
pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 1065  Small-Scale Industry III Project:  US$35 Million of October 17,
1980; Effective Date:  January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The credit became effective on January 15, 1982. The credit com-
ponents of the project are moving well, particularly in the area of small-
medium sized projects. Progress is also satisfactory on the technical and
marketing service components of the technical assistance elements of the
project.
Cr. No. 1071 Ninth Imports Program: US$65 Million Credit of October 17, 1980;
Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Progress on implementing ongoing action program requirements
continue satisfactorilv albeit somewhat behind schedule. During FY81,
GOB has initiated a number of the policy changes required under the credit,
particularly in the areas of agriculture/irrigation policy.
Cr. No. 1117 Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II Project: US$50.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date:  August 12, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
This project continues IDA-s involvement with BSB initiated under
Cr. 632-BD. Institutional upgrading programs initiated under that credit
are being continued and GOB/IDA are monitoring carefully BSBs operation
in the areas of loan recoveries and project appraisals. IDA is also coor-
dinating closely with ADB and KfW to implement an action program aimed at
improving BSB's collection performance and financial viability. As of
September 30, 1982 US$31.7 million of the credit has been committed and
US$5.0 million disbursed.
Cr. No. 1194 Tenth Imports Program US$100.0 Million Credit of January 26,
1982; Effective Date: February 22, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
This Credit became effective on February 22, 1982. As of September
30, 1982 US$33.4 million had been disbursed.



34 -                     ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr. No. 1204 Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1205  Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project:  US$30.0 Million Credit
of February 10, 1982; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 621   Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
All civil works have virtually been completed except for construc-
tion of two new Thana Training Units (50% complete) and for renovation of two
existing Agricultural Training Institutes (ATI), both of which have been slow
to complete due to lack of Taka funds. GOB has now released the needed funds
and work has resumed. The latest estimate (June 1982) for completion of all
works is December 1982. As a result of student strikes in 1981, no first
year students were enrolled and all ATIs are currently operating at only
about 50% capacity. The Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management)
intends to utilize the excess space this year for in-service training of VEAs.
Staffing is adequate and all ATI instructors have received in-service training
under the project. The course to train project managers and those civil
servants directly concerned with implementation of IDA financed agricultural
projects has been successful and an extension of the course to December 1982
has been recently approved by IDA. A further extension to June 1983 is now
under consideration. At the request of GOB, extension of the closing date
from June 30, 1982 to June 30, 1983 has been granted by IDA to allow enough
time to complete all remaining civil works and project activities and to
close all project accounts.
Cr. No. 912   Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of May 31,
1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Progress is evident in several areas of project activity.  Bids
have been invited, and the layout plans completed, for the 5 New TTCs.
Equipment being procured by the ILO has started arriving in Bangladesh, and
arrangements for storage, checking, and installation (where possible) are well
advanced.  Instructor and In-Plant Training programs are underway. The majority
of Technical Assistance experts are deployed, and a fellowship training
program (suspended for 1 year) prepared. Curriculum Development, trade
standards and tests, and a national vocational training policy are under
preparation. Increased cooperation between the Ministry of Labor (TTCs) and
Ministry of Education (VTI) in Vocational Training is also evident. Project
management, however, continues to be weak and the failure to replenish the
Revolving Fund has hampered instructor and In-Plant training programs.



35                      ANNEX II
Page 12
Cr. No. 1054 Fourth Education (Primary) Project: US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The construction program is now underway, but it emphasizes school
repairs and other minor works at some 300 schools. However, designs, plans
and estimates for a further 611 schools (including 289 new schools) and other
project buildings are being prepared. Schedules for school furniture have
been prepared and tenders invited. Textbooks for Class I & II students
procured and tenders invited for the manufacture of girls uniforms. Most
staff are now in position but effectiveness of project management is being
hampered by internal conflicts at the project Director level. A plan for
the recurrent training of teachers has been prepared and the training of PTI
instructors, Thana Education Officers and Asst. Thana Education Officers,
is underway. During the past year 370 officers and teachers were trained.
Four experts under the technical assistance component of the project are now
in post and an agreement signed with the British Council to undertake four
studies required under the project.
Population Project
Cr. No. 533   Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: September 30,
1982
As of September 30, 1982 US$11.57 million had been disbursed. The
r*edit was closed on September 30, 1982 and payment for commitments in the
pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 921   Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0 Million
Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: ADril 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project execution, except for the first tranche of the Family Welfare
Center's component, effectively commenced only in July 1980, about one year
behind schedule. While the Information, Education and Motivation (IEM) and
Research and Evaluation parts of the project are proceeding satisfactorily,
the civil works and Family Welfare Centers components of the service
delivery and training parts of the project are significantly delayed and
their completion within the original four year implementation period (July
1979-June 1983) is no longer feasible, owing not only to the initial one
year delay in implementation but also to weak implementation capacity of
responsible agencies, and the impact of budget cuts following the Government's
de facto devaluation of the Taka since appraisal, will result in significant
savings. A two year extension of the project implementation period or a
reduction in the projects infrastructure components to match implementation
capacity with subsequent reallocation of the IDA credit are currently being
discussed with the Government.



- 36 -                      ANNEX II
Page 13
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408   Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date:  August 7, 1973;  Closing Date:  December 31,
1982
All works under the project are now complete. Arbitration on the
Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims has been completed, and the Government
has announced that it intends to contest the award, although an out of court
settlement remains a possibility. The Closing Date of the credit extended to
March 31, 1981 has been extended to December 31, 1982 to enable the use of
uncommitted credit balance to meet the cost of eligible components of the
arbitration. Significant failures have appeared on Feni Bypass.
Cr. No. 735   Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit
of September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Spare parts for BIWTA vessels, navigation aids, hvdrographic and
cargo handling have been ordered. Most spare parts for BIWTC cargo vessels
and BI1WTA service vessels have been delivered and are on order. Consultants
appointed to carry out studies on IWT sector, fleet scheduling of BIWTC and
accounting systems for BIWTA and BIWTC have submitted their reports. Imple-
mentatior. of the recommendations of the accounting studies is in progress.
At the request of the Borrower the closing date has been extended to
December 31, 1982.
Cr. No. 964   Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979;  Effective Date:  August 29, 1980;  Closing Date:  June 30,
1984.
Project implementation has been seriously delayed by the Borrower-s
failure to award construction contracts in reasonable time. This failure has
resulted in increased project cost due to inflation. The problem appears to
result from factors outside the control of RHD, e.g., the inability of the
"Procurement Committee" to take timely decisions and standard Government
procedures which are in conflict with IDA procurement principles.
Cr. No. 1096 Fertilizer Transport Project: US$25.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: July 24, 1981;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1984
Trial dredging at Chittagong Port has been completed and results
of the survey are expected by end-1982.  Also dredging work at the inland
river port of Baghabari has been completed and pontoons are to be in place
shortly. Tenders for procurement of railway material have been issued.
Progress on other project components has been slow, but regular supervision
missions are providing assistance to speed up implementation. Disbursement
of funds, on the other hand, has been satisfactory.



- 37 -                    ANNEX II
Page 14
Cr. No. 1247 Chittagong Port Project: US$60.0 Million Credit of May 21,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
This Credit is not yet effective.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 487   Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project execution is largely behind schedule due to previous
delays in procurement, civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone
cables and switching equipment factories. Difficulties were also experienced
in completing the local construction and installation of the systems. TTB, a
Government board since April 1979, is making significant progress in organiz-
ing its finances and accounts, and in managing its operations and development.
TTB funds had until recently all been deposited in an overall Government
account. Since July 1981, TTB has a designated bank account to which all
funds are deposited and withdrawn and the accounting functions have been
transferred from Controller-s Auditor General to TTB. The overhaul of account-
ing functions, staff and methodology is proceeding very well. Recruitment of
staff has been completed and TTB now has an established and trained cadre
of financial staff. Commercial accounts will be preapred from FY82/83 onward.
In general, financial performance of TTB is reasonably good. Thus, TTB is
gradually achieving a level of financial autonomy that will permit it to
adjust its development program within the overall framework of the agreed
budget. Covenants under the project are now being complied with. Since
May 1981, TTB has taken final procurement action to commit the funds remaining
under the project. Works related to last procurement, including national
trunk and international electronic telephone exchanges, will be completed by
June 1983. Adequate actions as would be required to further improve TTB's
management, operations and development capability, will be considered under
the proposed third telecommunications project.
Technical Assistance Credits
Cr. No. 872   Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
37 subprojects, totalling about $10.7 million have been approved.
The credit is about half disbursed and has been over allocated to increase
disbursements. Sixteen subprojects have been completed. The remaining
subprojects are proceeding smoothly except in several instances, consultant
contracts have not been finalized.



- 38 -                    ANNEX II
Page 15
Cr. No. 1124 Fourth Technical Assistance Project: US$16.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: June 10, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on June 10, 1981. Three subprojects
for about $0.2 million have been committed. A number of proposed subprojects
totalling about $7.0 million have been agreed in principle and steps are being
taken to secure consultant services. In addition, a pipeline of subprojects
totalling about $15.0 million is under consideration.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934   Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Foreign consultants (Motor Columbus - Switzerland) have been ap-
pointed as scheduled and have begun design work. Project execution is about
one year behind schedule due to administrative difficulties in preparing maps
for the project areas and to the inability of the beneficiary (Power Develop-
ment Board) to provide adequate local staff for project implementation. To
improve the situation, local consultants have been appointed in September
1981 and conditions have been created to recuperate part of the delay.
Cr. No. 1091 Bakhrabad Gas Development Project: US$85.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: June 16, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Major procurement activities have been completed. Construction of
the Bakhrabad-Chittagong pipeline has been suspended because of the current
monsoon. The construction contract requires completion of the pipeline by
end-March 1983 in line with the original schedule. The last gas well (BK-5,
has been completed. Test results from the drilling program so far confirm
gas reserves and well productivity forecasts by reservoir consultants.
Cr. No. 1254 Ashuganj Thermal Power Project: US$92.0 Million Credit of
June 30, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1262 Rural Electrification Project: US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 30, 1982; Closing Date:  June 30, 1989
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 39 -                     ANNEX II
Page 16
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941   Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  USS22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
DACCA WASA's consulting engineers have completed design and it is
expected that procurement will be completed by early 1983. Physical progress
Is one year behind schedule. Early delays resulted from slow startup and
sluggish procurement but are currently due to land acquisition problems, which
have recently been mostly overcome, and shortage of local currency with which
to pay civil works contractors. Also, recently, DACCA W4ASA raised its tariff
by 30% and GOB paid off all arrears.
Cr. No. 1001  Second Chittagong Water Supply Project:  'SS20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980;  Effective Date:  Apr   ,, 1981;  Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
After early delays in selecting consultants for the project a firm
is in place and design is now well advanced.. Selection of a second consultant
for a sewerage/sanitation study has been made. An expatriate financial
adviser has proved effective. Procurement has started but imDlementation
will be about 1-1/2 years behind schedule. Recent tariff increase is not
sufficient and another increase by July ;, 1983 is expected.  While there has
been improvement in the collection of arrears from Government departments,
further improvement is still necessary.



-40-                                    ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
TELECOMMUNICATIONS III
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:.
Thirteen months.
(b) Agency preparing the project:
TTB.
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and date of first
mission to consider the project:
February 1981.
April 1981.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
April 1982.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
December 1982.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
May 1983.
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Approval of the Project Proforma (para 43);
(b) Effectiveness of the financing arrangement between
GOB and the Government of Japan (para 43);



-41-
(c) Issuances by COB of the administrative order
providing for the transfer of the proceeds of
the Credit to TTB (para 44); and
(d) Issuances by GOB of tender documents for the
procurement of goods amounting to at least 20% of
the proposed credit amount (para 45).
Other Conditions
(a)  TTB would pay GOB at least 11.5% per year on the total
equity of TTB, including retained earnings (para 44)
and maintain a rate of return of not less than 15%
on revalued fixed assets starting with FY84 (para 47);
(b)  TTB would increase its tariffs by December 31, 1983
(para 48);
(c)  TTB would implement an effective budget system by
June 30, 1984 and prepare commercial financial
statements starting with FY83 (para 51); and
(d)  TTB would employ a switching consultant and a
financial consultant by June 30, 1983 (para 40).



