                                        Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                       Report No: 26199




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                        (CPL-37620; SCL-3762A; SCPD-3762S; TF-22538)

                                            ON A

                                            LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$165.7 MILLION

                                           TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                          FOR THE

                               JAVA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT
                      AND WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                         June 30, 2003




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective December 2002)

                    Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp.)
                          Rp 1,000 = US$ 0.115
                              US$ 1 = Rp 8,700

                           FISCAL YEAR
             April 1   -     March 31 (up to Year 2000)
            January 1 - December 31 (from Year 2001)

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AWP           -      Annual Work Program
RBWRM         -      River Basin Water Resources Management
BAPPEDA       -      Regional Development Planning Board
Balai PSDA    -      River Basin Organization
DGBangda      -      Directorate General of Regional Development
DGPUOD        -      Directorate General for Public Administration and Regional Autonomy
DGWRD         -      Directorate General of Water Resources Development
Dinas PUP     -      Provincial/District Public Works Department
DWRS          -      District Water Resources Service
EOM           -      Efficient Operation & Maintenance
ERR           -      Economic Rate of Return
GIS           -      Geographical Information System
GOI           -      Government of Indonesia
IOMP          -      Irrigation Operation and Maintenance Policy
ISF           -      Irrigation Service Fee
ISSP          -      Irrigation Sub-Sector Project
IMPR          -      Irrigation Management Policy Reform
JIWMP         -      Java Irrigation Improvement and Water Resources Management Project
LA            -      Loan Agreement
MoHA          -      Ministry of Home Affairs
MPW           -      Ministry of Public Works
MTR           -      Mid-Term Review
NBB           -      Needs-Based Budget
O&M           -      Operation and Maintenance
PHU           -      Provincial Hydrological Unit
PIK           -      Small Irrigation System Management
PISP          -      Participatory Irrigation Sector Project (ADB)
PKPI          -      Irrigation Management Policy Reform
POM           -      Plan of Maintenance
PPTPA         -      Basin Water Mangement Committee
PTPA          -      Provincial Water Resources Coordination Committee
PWRS          -      Provincial Water Resources Services
QA            -      Quality Assurance
QAO           -      Quality Assurance Office
RBWRM         -      River Basin Water Resources Management
SAR           -      Staff Appraisal Report
WATSAL        -      Water Resources Sector Adjustment Loan
WISMP I       -      First Water Resources and Irrigation Sector Management Project
WUA           -      Water Users' Association
WUAF          -      Water Users' Associations Federation




                  Vice President:             Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                Country Director:             Andrew Steer, EAC1F
                  Sector Director:            Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
               Task Team Leader:              Guy J. Alaerts, EASRD

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                                         INDONESIA


          Java Irrigation Improvement and Water Resources Management Project

                                     Loan No. 3672-IND




                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            10
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              16
6. Sustainability                                                                  17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   19
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 22
9. Partner Comments                                                                23
10. Additional Information                                                         24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              38
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                39
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                              43
Annex 10 Improved Accountability and Performance in Irrigation Works Delivery      48
IBRD Map #25696

Project ID: P003954                                                      Project Name: JAVA IRRIGATION
                                                                         IMPROVEMENT AND WATER RESOURCES
                                                                         MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Team Leader: Guy J. Alaerts                                              TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                          Report Date: June 27, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: JAVA IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT AND                          L/C/TF Number: CPL-37620; SCL-3762A;
                            WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                               SCPD-3762S; TF-22538
                            PROJECT
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Irrigation and drainage (75%); General public administration sector
                            (25%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); Environmental policies and
                            institutions (P); Decentralization (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    04/10/1992                                        Effective: 10/13/1994              10/13/1994
   Appraisal:    09/04/1993                                            MTR: 02/01/1997                06/27/1997
    Approval:    06/21/1994                                         Closing: 12/31/2000               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA/THE DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF WATER
                                           RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din-Kassum                            Gautam Kaji
Country Director:               Andrew Steer                                   Marianne Huang
Sector Director:                Mark D. Wilson                                 Anthony Cole - Division Chief
Team Leader at ICR:             Guy Alaerts                                    John Hitchings
ICR Primary Author:             Animesh Shrivastava (FAO/CP)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1      The objectives of the Java Irrigation Improvement and Water Resource Management Project
(JIWMP) were far from clear. In the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the project is variously described as
having five and six objectives, and the Loan Agreement (LA) defines three objectives. The definitions of
the objectives in the SAR were, in effect, mainly a restatement of the project's components. The LA, in its
Schedule 2 "Description of the Project", appears to have attempted to synthesize the actual objectives:


     Staff Appraisal Report:            Staff Appraisal Report:        Loan Agreement: Schedule 2
  Loan and Project Summary         Project Concept and Objectives        Description of the Project
(a) support the institutional      (a) support the institutional      (a) establish comprehensive and
reforms and basin-focused          reforms and basin-focused          decentralized integrated basin
operations which foster            operations for integrated water    water resource management in
integrated water resources         resources management               selected river basins in the
management in Java provinces                                          provinces of Central Java, East
                                                                      Java, West Java and D.I.
                                                                      Yogyakarta
(b) continue support for           (b) bring the share of small       (b) rehabilitate, provide special
maximizing coverage of efficient   schemes on Java that have          maintenance, and improve
operation and maintenance of       received special maintenance and   sustainability of, irrigation
larger irrigation schemes          have been turned over (to water    schemes in the four provinces
                                   users' associations?) up to 60
                                   percent
(c) expand the Irrigation Service  (c) complete the technically- and  (c) transfer the operation and
Fee program for cost recovery      economically-viable                maintenance of small irrigation
                                   rehabilitation or up-grading of    schemes in the four provinces to
                                   unimproved irrigation systems      water users' associations
                                   serving over 200,000 ha
                                   (generally 500-3,000 ha in size)
(d) privatize small public schemes (d) support sustainable, efficient
(of <500 ha) by turning them over operation and maintenance
to non-profit water users'
associations
(e) support the implementation of  (e) introduce Irrigation Service
remedial works on about 11,300     Fees in virtually all remaining
ha of the Dumpil Irrigation        areas of Java
System
(f) complete the technically- and
economically-viable
rehabilitation of (as yet
unimproved) public irrigation
systems of >500 ha


However, even to the extent that they can be reconciled one with another, these statements of the project's
objectives in the SAR and LA are mainly qualitative and did not easily lend themselves to the specification
of performance indicators against which the outcome and results of the project could be measured.




                                                       - 2 -

3.1.2      An insight into the overall project objective is provided by the further elaboration of project
objectives in the SAR (Project Concept and Objectives, paragraph 3.2):

" Succeeding in these objectives would provide a replicable approach to water resources management;
remove government from small scheme management; and create a significant number of
well-functioning, sustainable and largely self-financing irrigation schemes. Direct economic benefits
would result from safe-guarding and improving infrastructure and better system management. This
would elevate water use efficiency, expand crop areas and boost yields.             More than one million
small-scale farm families would benefit."

However, the SAR does not specify any indicators for measuring the outputs and impact of the project. No
provision appears to have been made for monitoring and evaluation, and no base-line survey was proposed.

3.1.3   The project objectives as defined in the LA were in line with the objectives of the Government of
Indonesia (GOI), based on a transition to river basin water resource management and on the 1987 Irrigation
Operation and Maintenance Policy (IOMP) which emphasized: (a) the efficient operation and maintenance
(EOM) of publicly-managed irrigation systems (larger than 500 ha); (b) increased operation and
maintenance (O&M) expenditures (with cost-recovery through the use of the Irrigation Service Fees - ISFs
- on a pilot basis); (c) the transfer ("turnover") of smaller irrigation systems to beneficiaries after
rehabilitation (the so-called "Special Maintenance"); and (d) a greater participation of Water Users'
Associations (WUAs). The objectives were also consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
which emphasized infrastructure, institutional reform, decentralization, and the strategic management of
natural resources. Within the irrigation sector itself, these objectives had already been emphasized in the
Irrigation Sub-Sector Project (ISSP) II, which helped to pioneer the transfer of small schemes, EOM, cost
recovery through ISF, and river basin management on a pilot basis.

3.1.4    Although they were both clear and desirable, the objectives of substantially expanding EOM and
ISF (leading to an efficient "steady-state" O&M regime and a nation-wide fee supplement to government
O&M subventions) were unrealistic in the light of known and emerging institutional and implementation
problems under the ISSPs (e.g., the lack of adequate, stable funding for O&M; the effective de-linking of
ISF charges from the level and quality of irrigation service provision; and the failure to "recycle" collected
revenues to the scheme of origin's O&M needs). A significant change of Bank policy towards irrigation
O&M was introduced into the project design compared to that which had been promoted under the ISSP I
and ISSP II. The Bank no longer funded O&M expenditures (such as EOM) on a declining basis* and
these expenditures were to be covered fully by the GOI. The Bank did, however, fund other EOM costs
(such as staff training for EOM and WUAs, as well as non-vehicular equipment).

[*   The rationale for external O&M funding on a declining scale was that, by project closure, the
Government would assume O&M funding responsibility for infrastructure investments on a sustainable
basis. All previous projects had this provision because, in effect, Government never made good on its
promise and the Bank unrealistically continued with the support of O&M funding on a declining scale,
accepting each successive "promise" as a bona fide commitment.]

3.1.5   The project was complex and ambitious in that the project design had strong policy and institutional
goals based on a detailed institutional action plan for both river basin water resources management
(RBWRM) and irrigation O&M.            The RBWRM action plan covered: (a) integrated surface and
groundwater management in selected river basins; (b) the establishment of four provincial and five river
basin water resources coordination committees (PTPA and PPTPA); (c) five provincial river basin water


                                                    - 3 -

resources management units (Balai PSDA); (d) the development at the Directorate General of Water
Resources Development (DGWRD) of an in-house capacity to prepare or up-date river basin water
resources management plans; and (e) the ultimate introduction of river basin Water Service Fees (including
ISFs) to cover the O&M of bulk water supply and administrative costs to municipal and industrial users in
three pilot basins.

3.1.6    The irrigation O&M agenda covered five policy initiatives to strengthen its technical, financial and
institutional aspects: (a) recurrent O&M funding levels were to be maintained at 1993/1994 levels in real
terms from the national budget and provincial revenues through 1999/2000; (b) indirect irrigation
cost-recovery was to be established through increased property taxes on irrigated lands; (c) the ISF was to
be applied nation-wide by 2003/2004; (d) kabupaten-level irrigation agencies, and the legal status of
WUAs to undertake contractual obligations for irrigation, were to be established through kabupaten
decrees (Perda); and (d) improved mechanisms for cost-effective O&M programming and budgeting, with
transfer from national to full regional government funding, were to be supported by the ISF.

3.1.7   On the one hand, the RBWRM action plan required significant changes in institutional behavior and
incentives, administrative procedures (including the promulgation of provincial decrees for establishing
Balai PSDAs), staffing of the provincial water resources service agency (Dinas PUP) and financing
arrangements. On the other hand, the main components of the irrigation part of the project (EOM, ISF,
Turnover), although introduced in earlier projects, had not yet been sufficiently mainstreamed and lacked
both a framework of policy and enabling legislation as well as a blueprint of detailed, settled steps for
large-scale national application. For instance, the project document does not specify arrangements for
channelling ISF collections directly into local O&M budgets, adjusting ISF for service quality, ensuring
full payment of ISF, or securing reliable, institutionalized funding for EOM in relation to
Needs-Based-Budgeting (NBB): it seems to assume that technical assistance-dependent procedures,
applicable under ISSP II, would be continued and mainstreamed. The project also aimed to introduce new
(or to mainstream recent) systems and international best practices, such as Water Service Fees and cost
accounting systems in provincial river basin management units (Balai PSDA). However, there was no
substantial management policy commitment by DGWRD to internalizing these practices while insufficient
prior organizational and institutional capacity or skills base existed to implement them effectively. Further,
implementation capacity was stretched by the scale and scope of the changes required, involving various
levels of government as well as small scheme village irrigation institutions. Finally, the understanding of
and incentives for key changes were not clearly or fully established by the implementing agencies and other
stakeholders following their introduction under ISSP I and ISSP II.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1    The project objectives were not formally restructured at the Mid-Term Review (MTR), carried out
in June 1997, or at any other time. Nevertheless, a rapidly-changing sector and national environment
precipitated many changes in project design and component activity during the period 1999-2001. By early
1998, it became clear that the ISF was no longer a legal local government charge (as a result of a 1997
Government Regulation on local government revenue); at the same time, EOM and O&M subventions to
provinces were reduced by about two-thirds in 1998/1999 as a fiscal decentralization measure, on the
understanding that Provincial governments would make up the difference. This did not happen, and
distinctions in funding for EOM and non-EOM schemes disappeared. It also became clear in early 1999
that full administrative and fiscal decentralization would drastically change the whole administrative and
funding paradigm of the IOMP 1987.           When it was realized that many essential conditions (legal,
institutional, participatory, administrative and financial) for the achievement of IOMP 1987 goals, which
were enshrined in this project, were not in place, the project's irrigation activities were increasingly directed


                                                      - 4 -

towards piloting a far-reaching process of sector policy, legislation and management reform embarked upon
by the GOI under the Water Resources Sector Adjustment Loan (WATSAL - Loan 4469-IND).

3.2.2    The WATSAL Policy Matrix of April 1999 was intended, inter alia, to overcome the IOMP 1987
deficiencies in the project design by implementing the new Irrigation Management Policy Reform (PKPI)
principles, as well as applying nation-wide the improved RBWRM principles already being piloted by the
project. The PKPI is based on five principles (as enunciated under the Presidential Instruction 3 of 1999
and the Government Regulation 77 of 2001); (a) the improvement of scheme governance by empowerment
of WUAs and WUA Federations (WUAFs) up to the full irrigation scheme-level; (b) the reorientation of
irrigation agency tasks to support WUAs/WUAFs; (c) the transfer of irrigation asset management
responsibility to WUAs and/or WUAFs; (d) the self-financing of WUA/WUAF activities through a
combination of membership fees and financial support on a matching grant basis; and (e) sustainable
irrigation scheme management. Since implementation of the PKPI would more effectively achieve the
project's irrigation objectives, it was not considered necessary to change the objectives as stated in the LA;
instead, the project could be adjusted under the existing description to conform with the PKPI policy.

3.3 Original Components:


3.3.1     The River Basin Water Resources Management Component (11 percent of base cost) was
innovative and ambitious. Its implementation required significant regulatory, institutional, administrative,
staffing and budget management changes, which eventually took three to four years to develop and execute.
Although a detailed Action Plan based on RBWRM policy and regulatory benchmarks was included in the
SAR, subsequent experience suggests that complexity (e.g., regarding bulk water service fees, formal water
allocation management, distribution of roles and responsibilities between Province and Balai-PSDA) and
weaknesses in implementation capacity were underestimated in the design. The Hydrology Component
(1.5 percent of base cost), in design terms, was a small and focused intervention. It suffered significant
implementation problems because of the project's inability to use loan proceeds for vehicle purchase, the
mandatory low civil service grade of Provincial Hydrology Unit heads, and lack of support of technical
assistance from a national hydrology research institute.

3.3.2    The Transfer of O&M of Small Irrigation Schemes to WUAs Component ("Turnover") (23
percent of base cost) continued the GOI policy of turning over small irrigation schemes (under 500 ha) to
village WUAs after conducting "Special Maintenance" (i.e., major rehabilitation) where needed. The
project's design described in the SAR showed awareness of two principal lessons arising from previous
projects: (a) the importance of WUA involvement in planning, design and construction; and (b) the delays
in preparation for transfer (and in actual transfer) experienced because of Dinas reluctance to affect the
transfer. [Since irrigation O&M subventions given to a Dinas PUP were based on a unit budget cost per ha
of land under Dinas control, the transfer of a small scheme to a WUA meant that the future O&M budget
of a Dinas PUP would be reduced by an amount proportional to the area transferred to WUA management,
hence the reluctance to effect formal transfer and to delay it for as long as possible.] The component
supported key features such as WUA empowerment, following the Ministry of Home Affairs (MoHA)
Decree No. 12/1992 which allowed WUAs to open bank accounts, participate in contractual work and levy
charges. Nevertheless, legalization was not pursued during the implementation of the component.

3.3.3    Many of the lessons mentioned in the SAR remained as outstanding problems even after
implementation of this component because these governance principles were not actively enforced by the
DGWRD or the Bank in the early years of the project. In effect, project design did not deeply engage with
the crucial issues involved: operational guidelines, mechanisms and M&E systems were not developed by
which WUA empowerment, user participation, post-turnover support, etc., would be promoted and



                                                     - 5 -

monitored. In fact, use of loan proceeds for post-turnover support was not part of the program design
precisely because the schemes were supposed to be self-sufficient after turnover. A meaningful response to
lessons yielded by previous projects would have been to have taken account of local institutional realities
and weaknesses in the WUA concept contained in the IOMP 1987 by providing such frameworks in the
component design and recognizing the limitations on implementing capacity. The design of the turnover
component did, however, reflect some other good innovative practices (e.g., the involvement of local people
in design and construction, and use of small-scale contracts with WUAs for executing simpler construction
works).

3.3.4    The technical design of the Irrigation Development Component* (39 percent of base cost) with
respect to irrigation engineering and maintenance management by the Dinas PUP was satisfactory, being
oriented to the project goal of preparing irrigation schemes for entry into EOM. Nevertheless, although the
IOMP 1987 required that WUAs be formed according to the concepts and provisions of MoHA regulation
No.12 of 1992 and that rehabilitated schemes entering EOM were to have active WUAs, neither the
DGWRD nor the Bank enforced this participatory irrigation management provision in the component's
design during the pre-MTR phase of the project. During that phase of the project, neither the DGWRD nor
the Bank required that, in Annual Work Program (AWP) formulation and the Bank's mandatory clearance
thereof, loan proceeds would be dedicated to new WUA formation and strengthening of inactive WUAs
formed under ISSP I and II. This component also included further strengthening of the DGWRD Quality
Assurance Office (QAO) that had been established under ISSP II through technical assistance and
operational support. The purpose of the QAO was to "examine contract procedures and assure quality
plan of design and construction". As an additional measure, it was agreed at negotiations that annual
Technical Audits would be carried out by both the DGWRD's Inspectorate General and the Directorate
General for Public Administration and Regional Autonomy (DGPUOD) of expenditures for project
activities not subject to prior review. The technical audits would be carried out with consultant assistance
and would include a sample of completed civil works**, services and equipment procurement.                  The
technical assistance to the QAO resulted in fourteen Quality Assurance (QA) manuals; however, the
technical audit was destined to fail as its hasty inclusion in the project did not foresee that the Inspectorate
General had no experience in technical audit of the kind envisaged.

[* Support the for the Dumpil Irrigation System under this component was essentially an exercise in
"problem containment" relating to an earlier Bank-supported project (Loan 2649-IND) and was regarded
by the SAR as a sub-component of the Irrigation Development component.]

[** This was introduced into three more or less concurrent Bank-supported DGWRD projects because of
Bank Management's concerns about the quality of works and contract management in previous DGWRD
projects.]

3.3.5   The Efficient Operation and Maintenance Component (20 percent of base cost) aimed to support
EOM on about 776,000 ha of public irrigation systems. EOM had been introduced under ISSP I (starting
in 1987/1988) and was implemented through ISSP II and parallel projects supported by the Asian
Development Bank.       These experiences suggested that necessary conditions for EOM were adequate
financing (according to a NBB), proper staffing and training. Project design did not address these issues
adequately. Binding administrative procedures, developed and applied under ISSP II for determining NBB
and EOM funding were not actively monitored except for the first two years. Assurances obtained at
negotiations (concerning the adequacy of nominal government support of O&M funding through annual
disclosure of provincial subventions for EOM and non-EOM irrigation schemes) proved by 1999 to be an
inadequate tool for ensuring O&M funding from governmental sources. Finally, the project's design relied
on ISF to provide 80-100 percent of EOM funding by project closure (an unrealistic expectation, given the



                                                      - 6 -

experience until then of ISF collection, which was not even accounting for 2 percent of O&M costs). All
these observations beg the question of whether the extension of EOM on the scale attempted was
justifiable.

3.3.6   Design of the Irrigation Service Fee Component (2.5 percent of base cost) also involved the use of
flawed models and insufficient use of past lessons. The use of the ISF was piloted in ISSP I and expanded
in ISSP II, and was supposedly based on the twin principles of "fee for service" and "service for fee". As
the Performance Audit Report for ISSP II noted, a key lesson generated was that farmer commitment to the
ISF concept was based on the conviction (promoted assiduously in the pilot phase) that ISF collections
would be re-cycled for maintenance of the farmer's irrigation system. However, even under ISSP II (the
precursor to this project's ISF component), the link between the ISF and service delivery was dropped,
partly to simplify the overly-complex approach pioneered in the pilot phase and partly because of agency
reluctance to commit to a given service level. Collections were to be based on factors such as predicted
productivity and a designated service level, which bore little relationship to NBB. The revenue profile
expected from the ISF was unrealistic given that, under ISSP II, neither the amounts collected nor the
collection efficiency was high. As in the case of turnover, past lessons seemed to figure in the design only
superficially. Annex 11 of the SAR stressed the right features: the importance of legalized, functional
WUAs; joint walk-throughs to determine NBB; adjustments for quality-of-service delivery; the channelling
of ISF collections directly into local O&M budgets; and sanctions for under-payment. This contrasts with
the implementation experience in which steps and procedures laid out in the national ISF policy were
essentially not followed (e.g., for WUA formation/empowerment, walk-throughs, preparation of NBB), fee
collection was over-emphasised, link to service delivery was dropped, and no sanction was imposed for
non-payment.

3.3.7     There was a major institutional inconsistency in the design of the ISF and EOM programs.
Provincial Water Resources Services (PWRS) were responsible for the provision of decentralized irrigation
O&M services under the DGWRD (a predominantly "construction-oriented" agency) in the Ministry of
Public Works (MPW), while the DGPUOD (a MoHA agency dealing with provincial and local government
revenue) was to prepare, disseminate and manage the ISF through provincial and district administrations.
The DGPUOD had no understanding of, or experience in, irrigation and could not be expected to undertake
walk-throughs, etc., related to ISF; these needed to be done by the PWRS staff. At the same time,
DGBangda (a MoHA agency dealing with direct national funding to provincial and district governments for
their recurrent budget activities, including EOM and non-EOM irrigation O&M) was to administer EOM
budget allocations to provinces based on the area of public irrigation schemes being served. Traditionally,
there had been no effective mechanism for coordination between the DGWRD and the
DGPUOD/DGBangda, or between their satellite agencies (PWRS and Bappeda) at provincial or district
levels under the hierarchical deconcentrated system of public administration.

3.3.8   Admittedly, no design can insure entirely against a lack of political will, incentives or institutional
arrangements at various levels of government to implement programs as designed. The relevant question,
though, is one of assessment of the political, institutional, technical and financial feasibility of large-scale
expansion of (pilot) schemes. The SAR "reasonably expected that by the close of the project, nearly all
publicly-managed irrigation systems in Java would have ISF introduced" (Annex 11, paragraph 2) and
that ISF collections would rise to fund fully EOM in five to six years. This expectation was crucial: it
underpinned the EOM component that, in turn, provided the rationale for rehabilitation under the Irrigation
Development component (otherwise civil works undertaken for rehabilitation and expansion would simply
fall into the cycle of deferred maintenance and costly premature rehabilitation which this project, and the
preceding ISSPs, were trying to break). In a sense, therefore, 62 percent of original project costs for the
turnover and rehabilitation components was justified by this expectation.



                                                     - 7 -

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1    There was no formal re-structuring of project components at the MTR. However, significant
changes occurred over the project's life. The funding of the EOM program (as originally designed) was
essentially eviscerated by 1998 and ceased altogether by December 31, 1999. The reason was that, in view
of the long-term trend to administrative decentralization, the GOI reduced its O&M subventions to
provinces through MoHA by about two-thirds from 1999-on, based on the assumption that provinces
would make up the agreed balance from their own revenue sources. The provinces did not do so because of
other priorities, with the result that their policy of deferred maintenance was exacerbated. Consequently,
most of the provinces had ceased to distinguish between EOM and non-EOM areas and the central
government had drastically reduced its funding for EOM. Hence, the objective of EOM did not necessarily
carry the specific features/connotations of EOM after that. Expansion of the ISF under the project was put
on hold in 1996 after the Bank suspended disbursements for the ISF component because of poor
performance by its executing agency, the DGPUOD. The struggling ISF program ground to a halt
throughout Indonesia in the wake of Government Regulation No.18 of 1997 aimed at simplifying the local
taxation system, which raised legal complications with respect to the implementation of the ISF*. The area
target for the Dumpil Irrigation Scheme was reduced to 4,700 ha as it was determined that there was not
enough water reliably to irrigate a larger area.

[* Supervision reports until July 1997 listed all components in the SAR (although in a more disaggregated
form as eight components). Following the DGPUOD directive that ISF payments could be retained in a
WUA bank account and the fundamental change of the ISF concept from a service fee to a WUA
membership fee, the next PSR (in September 1998) dropped EOM from the PSR component list, an
omission maintained until project closure. The ISF was still retained as a full component in the LA and
after the lifting of the ISF component suspension, as loan proceeds were being used for IMPR
implementation through development of WUA institutions and participatory irrigation management under
Inpres No. 3 of 1999, implementation of the "new ISF" concept following the revised component design.]

3.4.2   On the positive side, potentially far-reaching changes occurred at the level of activities. Following
the realization after the MTR that the basic conditions were not in place to deliver on overall project
objectives (which were essentially the same as IOMP 1987 goals), project resources were used to support a
large-scale irrigation sector reform embarked upon by the government. Following amendments to the LA in
January 1999 and December 2000, loan proceeds were used for the preparation of WATSAL reforms, for
the revival of ISF* to pilot institutions for more effective O&M through WUAFs and self-financing
through membership fees of WUAs, and for works undertaken by WUAFs through participative
construction. The project set out to implement the five PKPI principles through: (a) the piloting of WUAF
establishment; (b) the involvement of WUAs/WUAFs in vetting rehabilitation designs through PRAs and
walk-throughs; and (c) the involvement of WUAFs in construction works, either as small sub-contractors
or (as in some cases) where almost all rehabilitation was carried out by WUAFs. This led, in October
2001, to a detailed implementation framework for PKPI which was adopted by all participating kabupatens
in a national workshop.

[* This implied conversion of ISF from a "tax for irrigation services" to a "WUA membership fee" that
was retained in a WUA bank account (Directive of DGPUOD of September 1998) as was originally
envisaged in the ISF concept, including recycling the ISF revenue back to the irrigation scheme of origin.]

3.4.3     Following the issue of Government Regulation 77 in 2001, this framework included: (a) the
adoption of the PKPI as a kabupaten development policy, (b) the development of kabupaten legislation for


                                                       - 8 -

the PKPI and reorganization of its irrigation agency to support PKPI; (c) the establishment of an
inter-agency kabupaten task force as an embryo Irrigation Commission; (d) arrangements for irrigation
management tranfer to WUAFs; and (e) the piloting of the Kabupaten Irrigation Improvement Facility (a
demand-based matching-grant fund for rehabilitation assistance to WUAFs that accept management
transfer).   Moreover, in the implementation of project components such as turnover and Special
Maintenance, WUA empowerment and involvement, as well as participatory design and construction, were
emphasised. In order to ensure implementation success, the DGPUOD was removed as the executing
agency for the "new ISF" component and replaced by the DG Bangda through an amendment to the LA on
December 7, 2000.

3.4.4     Since the MTR, the project was deliberately and increasingly oriented to serve the needs of the
PKPI and to prepare (or to pilot) key initiatives.        The emphasis was placed on deep-rooted legal,
institutional, capacity-building and incentive aspects of reforms, with the ideas and principles which are
similar to those expressed in the SAR - in effect, a "second phase" of project implementation, necessary for
creating the conditions for the realization of overall project objectives.       Similarly, the vetting and
implementation of the fourteen QA manuals were used in the same way. QA Core Teams were established
in East, Central and West Java for training provincial and kabupaten staff in QA procedures in
construction contract management and in the implementation of QA procedures in participatory
construction for scheme rehabilitation.        These procedures included the participation of WUAF
representatives as observers in the bidding process and handing-over of completed works by a contractor.
Quality Plans were also introduced as an integral part of the bidding document and contract management.
Other initiatives included an emphasis on gender participation in WUAs/WUAFs, the development of asset
management procedures, and studies of water rights.

3.4.5    In the RBWRM component, public consultations were introduced for the preparation of river basin
plans and procedures for their adoption by provincial governments. The focus shifted from developing a
central planning capability to the establishment of an operational provincial planning unit in the Central
Java PWRS. This unit also began to develop a water resources information system and served as the
model to be replicated for decentralized river basin planning in other Java provinces. In river basin
management, particular attention was placed on developing management capacity because Balai PSDA
managers had no prior autonomous management experience outside irrigation construction. In particular,
by 2002 it was accepted that Balai PSDA chiefs should be able to plan and administer their own annual
budgets instead of receiving imprest allowances from a regional budget manager. Moreover, the concept of
hydrology role-sharing was introduced, whereby actual hydrometry operations were placed under a Balai
PSDA instead of the PHU (which was to play an oversight role only).

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1     Quality at entry is rated as having been "unsatisfactory". Design weaknesses, up-scaling of
programs on the basis of unrealistic expectations, and the incorrect assessment of legal, administrative and
institutional preparedness (especially for the RBWRM and hydrology components) have already been
mentioned above for various components. There was no project-focused monitoring and evaluation system
for irrigation development capable of yielding monitoring information of operational interest as well as
assessing the specific impacts of project interventions and lessons to be learned*. Further, there was a lack
of clear strategy for maintaining the cohesiveness of various interventions and keeping focus on the
underlying development objective. In the case of the irrigation-related components (accounting for nearly
seven-eighths of base costs), when EOM and ISF were practically abandoned a "construction-focus" to the
irrigation interventions had emerged until after the MTR, in contrast to the overall objective of the project.
Interestingly, the revealed preference for "construction" (i.e., rehabilitation over maintenance) was a



                                                     - 9 -

well-established "lesson learned" from earlier project implementation experiences that could have been
factored more extensively into project design. Next, "'institutional strengthening" and "decentralisation",
rather than involving fundamental reform (including genuine empowerment of farmer organisations) were
initially attempted within the context of highly centralized, hierarchical implementation processes**.
Finally, the project civil works started only slowly after loan approval, due to late release of the counterpart
budget and the slow fielding of the irrigation component's consultants.

[* For example, performance targets and indicators for quality of irrigation service such as adequacy,
equity and reliability were either lacking or ill-defined. Similarly, financial targets like unit cost of water
delivered, water productivity and collection rate for water charges were largely absent.]

[** Note, in this regard, that the second phase of implementation of the project, in the context of WATSAL,
differs crucially from the first.]


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1    The project outcome is rated as satisfactory because it exceeded its physical targets (Annex 1) and
validated institutional models that are increasingly becoming the norm for nation-wide replication by the
GOI and other donors. The achievement of a viable, efficient O&M mechanism that would result in
well-maintained irrigation systems on a "user-pays" basis, the principle outcome expected of the EOM and
ISF components of the project, was missed by a considerable margin. In the small schemes (<500 ha)
which, after Special Maintenance, were to be turned-over to WUAs for O&M, WUA formation and
development were initially weak and under-funded, post-turnover roles were not well defined, post-turnover
O&M performance declined in many cases, and farmers continued to have a strong expectation of
continued GOI support. However, the revival of ISF in pilot form in 2000, while helpful in creating
conditions for a sustainable O&M regime, could not and did not lead to a viable, comprehensive O&M
system for all the irrigation schemes rehabilitated under the project.          Though physical targets for
rehabilitation and Special Maintenance were generally over-achieved, rehabilitation was not the raison
d'être of the project and in itself does not connote success. Indeed, the rehabilitation costs were justified on
the assumption that complementary development of O&M systems (under Turnover and EOM/ISF) would
protect the value of these investments.

4.1.2   A "second" phase of implementation, with a different management approach, that started after 1998
in the context of the WATSAL has resulted in a number of significant achievements. The legal basis for
irrigation management reform has been more securely established: a Presidential Instruction (PKPI No. 3
of 1999) was followed in 2001 by the creation of legal bases for Irrigation Management Reform Policy
(Government Regulation 77/01), WUA Empowerment (Decree MoHA 50/2001) and Irrigation
Management Transfer (Ministerial Decree Settlement and Regional Infrastructure 529/2001).                   This
contrasts with the reforms inspired by the IOMP 1987 which were based on a letter from the then-Minister
of Planning to the Bank and a national policy ratified by the GOI. The achievements of the project's PKPI
pilots led to an implementation framework for both small and large schemes that could be replicated
nationally and could lead to improved irrigation governance and the creation of conditions for sustainable
O&M with participation of autonomous, self-financing WUAs/WUAFs.                      These frameworks and
procedures were also adopted by Asian Development Bank and the European Union for their forthcoming
projects. Implementation of participatory aspects of PKPI is yielding positive results (see Annexes 8 and
10). Thus, institutional arrangements for the management of irrigation sector reform have been further
rationalized.



                                                     - 10 -

4.1.3    Measures such as the securing of legal under-pinnings, WUA empowerment, capacity building for
participatory irrigation management, and new institutional and financial arrangements which have been
assiduously undertaken in the last few years have created enabling conditions for viable O&M systems. In
other words, they are instruments for the achievement of the project objective of well-maintained,
sustainable irrigation systems. In the context of the present project, despite these recent steps, that
objective is currently far from being achieved (though these measures have significantly increased the
likelihood of it being achieved in any follow-on project).        The overall reform achievements appear
impressive and worthy of record, especially for the innovativeness and the intensity of effort of
implementing parties*. The reform initiatives have been piloted only in the last 3-4 years and details of key
institutional, organizational and financing reforms are in the process of being finalized. Therefore, it may
be a little early to assess their eventual impact regarding achievement of a viable, sustainable O&M
system, because they need to be applied on a larger scale under non-pilot conditions when actual "stress
testing" occurs.

[* An indicator of the nature and pace of progress is the change in the Bank's approach to the irrigation
sector. During the first phase of this project, when IOMP 1987 goals seemed undeliverable because of the
adverse institutional conditions and the failure of key components (such as EOM and ISF), the Bank in
1996 suspended new lending operations in the irrigation sector until WATSAL-related reforms had been
made. Once these reforms were in place, the First Water Resources & Irrigation Sector Management
Project (WISMP 1) was negotiated on May 14, 2003 and approved by the Board on June 26, 2003.]

4.1.4   With regard to the river basin components, the project was successful in establishing institutions and
capacity for river basin planning and water resource management that may be replicated nationally.
Although there is a lack of sufficiently skilled and motivated staff, institutional capacity to maintain and
up-grade human capital, and adequate routine financial resources to undertake the regular activities, these
short-comings are to be addressed in the proposed Bank-supported WISMP 1 from January 2004. The
RBWRM institutional developments are expected to be fully sustainable, as the WISMP 1 is the first
project of a ten-year Adjustable Program Loan that will address all river basin governance and Balai PSDA
capacity building needs.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1    Basin Water Resources Planning (BWRP). The overall performance of the sub-component is
rated as "highly satisfactory". SAR targets have been surpassed. From the second river basin plan, the
planning process has involved public consultations, and four of the five plans prepared have been legalized:
these processes were not foreseen in the SAR. Until 2000, the plans were largely technical in nature which
limited their institutional development impact.            Since then, they have been given a more
management-oriented character, with attention to organizational and fiscal impact aspects, including
linkages with other agencies and stakeholders. Most importantly, a successful provincial planning unit was
established in the Central Java PWRS that serves as a model for the establishment of such units elsewhere.

4.2.2    Basin Water Resources Management (BWRM). Overall performance of this sub-component is
rated as "highly satisfactory". Cross-sectoral institutions for RBWRM have been established in all project
provinces. The establishment of five pilot Balai PSDAs, in line with SAR objectives, was followed by the
setting-up of nineteen more. The Balai PSDAs are established as structural units with their own staff and
modest (but growing) structural funding from provincial sources.         Cross-sectoral involvement of the
stakeholders is implemented through regular meetings (generally 2-3 times a year) with the PPTPA, and
non-governmental stakeholders are also members in some cases (comprising 20 to 50 percent of
membership).


                                                     - 11 -

4.2.3   With regard to activities, data-bases have been installed in all Balais and each has been provided
with a Geographical Information System (GIS), for which the completion rates varies between 40 and 85
percent. With respect to installation and use of water allocation programs, all Balais were provided with
software for water allocation calculations. Most Balais preferred to use the simpler, spread-sheet model
based on previous practices and irrigation-based systems of water allocation. This involves two cycles of
water allocation of 10-14 days' duration.      With regard to cost accounting, a methodology for cost
accounting and allocation was developed for introduction in Balais.          Pilot Balais have prepared an
incidental cost accounting report for fiscal year 1999/2000. A systematic and routine up-date of these
costs was not presented to the mission. Also, no system of water accounting was presented. On the other
hand, flood forecasting and flood warning systems appear to be operational. Further, in selected Balais
where water quality is an issue, sampling, analysis and reporting are being carried out. Many Balai
PSDAs are also involved in the monitoring of dam safety. The basic function of the Balais are to undertake
efficient, effective and equitable management of available water resources. However, in some river basins
(especially in West Java) this function has been hampered by a lack of clarity regarding the distribution or
assignment of roles and responsibilities between Province and District in irrigation following the issuance
of the decentralization regulations in 1999.

4.2.4      Hydrology.     This performance of the component is rated "unsatisfactory" because of poor
implementation,     insufficient  outcome/impact,     and   organizational   and    sustainability  problems.
Implementation was severely affected in the first years for a variety of reasons, including: (a) the
weak/insignificant position of the PHUs in the provincial water resources agencies; (b) the limited authority
of the heads of hydrology units; (c) an inadequate capacity to acquire and retain capable staff; and (d) the
insufficient provision of resources (e.g., vehicles, equipment/instrumentation repair workshops, and
allowances for field operations). The Hydrology Component took off only in the second half of the project.
In 2001, the GOI took a number of steps in legislative and institutional areas to strengthen the organization,
human resources, funding and management aspects of the hydrology program. A new Sub-Directorate of
Hydrology was established at the center in DGWR. The functions of the PHUs were revised during
2000/2001: operation of the hydrological network, including data collection and station maintenance, has
been gradually handed over to the Balai PSDAs, limiting the PHUs to data analysis, publication and the
provision of technical guidance to Balai PSDA. A rationalization of the hydro-meteorological ("hydromet")
network is in progress, aimed at reducing costs for data collection and systems O&M. However, guidelines
are not yet available for routine and annual inspection, monitoring and reporting on the hydromet network.
The quality of data collection and analysis is still a matter of concerns because of lack of sufficient skilled
staff at the Balai and PHUs, especially for data analysis; poorly- or non-functioning observation posts
(involving 15-25 percent of water-level gauging stations in Yogyakarta and almost 80 percent of stations in
West Java); and service disruption because of the failure to pay observers routinely. With respect to
sustainability, staffing and funding issues need to be resolved at all levels (Central, PHU, Balai) and
investment in staff capacities should be continued. These problems and issues are to be addressed in the
forthcoming WISMP 1.

4.2.5   Turnover. The implementation of Special Maintenance works, comprising deferred maintenance
and minor up-grading on about 356,340 ha of irrigated land, exceeded its target by 25 percent [Special
Maintenance consisted of: (a) maintenance repairs to existing head works, canals, structures and inspection
roads; (b) additional structures for better control, distribution and maintenance of water; and (c)
construction of new houses and offices for O&M and WUA staff]. Similarly, the target for "turnover" of
completed schemes has been exceeded by 24 percent.             However, this numerical "output" disguises
draw-backs with the turnover process. In the initial "phase" of implementation (until 1998/1999) there was
very little WUA development and empowerment. After Special Maintenance, delays of up to a year


                                                     - 12 -

occurred in the holding of turnover ceremonies which consequently delayed the formal take-over of O&M
responsibility by WUAs. Turnover was supposed to remove schemes from provincial O&M budgets but to
leave the responsibility for difficult or emergency repairs with the District Water Resources Service
(DWRS).      In practice, the post-turnover division of roles and responsibilities was ambiguous, asset
ownership was ill-defined, and there was little post-turnover support and monitoring of WUAs by the
PWRS. Systematic data on O&M indicators for turned-over schemes do not appear to be available to
allow a full assessment of the impact of this component. However, data pertaining more generally to
post-turnover performance in West and East Java (i.e., also from other projects, such as the ISSPs) reveal a
deteriorating trend over the period 1993 - 1998/1999.

4.2.6     The surveys and designs for the turnover schemes were carried out under force accounts by
provincial design units (Cabang Dinas) and contracted to third-party national consultants. Turnover
construction (Special Maintenance) was implemented by contracts or by force account. Most of the work
was carried out under small packages which seem more suitable considering the scatterered locations of the
small schemes; contractors were from the local area and were familiar with the WUA mobilisers, which
had a positive impact on the quality of works. According to the SAR, farmers were expected to contribute
around ten percent of the costs of civil works. The farmers' contributions came from: (a) the provision of
land (i.e., there was no compensation from the project); (b) earthworks (e.g., excavation and fill covering,
de-silting operations); (c) masonry; and (d) building works for WUA meeting place or office. These
contributions were not monitored throughout the project period so that their extent cannot be determined.

4.2.7   Overall, this component is rated as "satisfactory", although this assessment is not straightforward.
The description of this component in the SAR main text (although not that in Annex 4) focuses essentially
on physical aspects such as area targets, Special Maintenance, and design and construction. Since the
evidence suggests that these targets have been exceeded and that work is of an acceptable quality, the
implementation of this component (in the SAR-specific sense) is deemed satisfactory. More generally,
though, problems related to WUA empowerment, turnover and post-turnover performance suggest that the
component as originally designed might not have served its purpose adequately. However, these issues
were not adequately addressed or operationalized during implementation; hence, to avoid
"double-counting", they are regarded as being part of the design problem in Quality at Entry.

4.2.8    Irrigation Development. Performance for this component is rated as "satisfactory". In physical
terms, project achievements exceeded the SAR targets. It rehabilitated 239 technical and semi-technical
schemes covering a total command area of 285,377 ha (compared with the SAR target of 218,000 ha). The
net area expanded was 6,244 ha (compared with the area of 15,543 ha envisaged at appraisal). The
Cibareno scheme was cancelled after the design stage because of land acquisition problems whose
resolution may not have been satisfactory in terms of the Bank's current social safeguard policies.

4.2.9    The primary objective of rehabilitation was to repair the degradation and reverse the decline of
water delivery/distribution capacity of existing irrigation and drainage systems caused by deferred
maintenance and to bring the systems back to an acceptable level of performance. The repair works have,
to a certain extent, improved performance of irrigation schemes through: (a) the extension of the useful life
of existing irrigation schemes; (b) the reduction of leakage from main and secondary canals through
selective lining and water-control structures; and (c) increased water-use reliability, availability and
efficiency through the repair of weirs, turnouts, cross-drainage structures/outlets, division boxes and water
measurement structures. Their impact has been confirmed by a satisfactory ERR for this component (see
Annex 3).




                                                    - 13 -

4.2.10    The main expenditure item was for rehabilitation and up-grading. The hydraulic and structural
works were based on standard criteria. In planning rehabilitation, in some individual cases economic
analysis and prior approval of the Bank for inclusion in the AWP were required because of agency
concerns about individual sub-project cost limits imposed by the component design. All cases and issues of
this type were resolved or remedied by revision of the rehabilitation designs and packages during
supervision and the AWP process. The selection of schemes for the project works was governed in
principle by a set of criteria established at appraisal (e.g., water availability, area unaffected by floods,
environmental impact, and unit cost per ha). There was considerable initial variation in the quality of the
completed works but there was a general trend towards improvement over the project period. Towards the
end of 1999, participatory design and construction were introduced, especially joint walk-through with
farmers to consult on irrigation system improvements. Eventually, participatory design and construction
took place in about 27 percent of the rehabilitated area.       Field evidence suggests that participatory
construction for simple civil works tended to be cheaper and less disruptive to local communities, in
addition to improving the quality of construction and also the completion of works in time.

4.2.11     This component also sought to consolidate initiatives for QA for contract procedures and
assurance of quality plan of design and construction undertaken during ISSP II. The QA sub-component
was expected to be fully functional by mid-1997, reporting findings, identifying deficiencies, determining
causes and recommending remedial measures for project-related contracts, designs and constructions.
Apart from substantial slippage in the date, the envisaged roles were not really performed, with QA
predominantly taking the form of production of fourteen QA manuals and providing training to provincial
staff. However, in 1999, the manuals had been vetted and the three principal construction-related manuals
had been field-tested. Provincial core teams were established for training staff in construction contract
management, and the QAO embarked on a major QA training program. The QA procedures were adopted
by Central, East and West Java and implemented as standard PWRS procedures. In the case of Central
and East Java, Quality Plans were incorporated in the bidding documents for remedial works for
dams/barrages/weirs.    A foundation was thus laid for the introduction of QA procedures in twelve
provinces in the forthcoming WISMP 1.

4.2.12   Efficient Operation and Maintenance. This component is rated as "highly unsatisfactory". The
concept of EOM was linked closely to NBB which, in turn, was based upon a Plan of Maintenance (POM)
(the SAR for the ISSP II [Annex 4, p. 69] explains the "content" of these notions and their inter-linkages).
The SAR for this project mentions the following funding arrangement: (a) recurrent O&M expenses to
come from provincial budgets; (b) incremental EOM costs to be met by the project (from national budget
rather than loan proceeds) on a steadily-declining basis over a five-year period; and (c) eventual budgetary
support to be provided mainly by ISF (rising from an initially-set level of 40-50 percent of NBB). In
practice, none of the elements of the design worked as expected. Available data suggest that the target
annual allocation for EOM for all Indonesia was fixed at Rp.39,200/ha in 1993/1994, Rp.42,000/ha in
1994/1995, Rp.34,444/ha in 1995/1996 and Rp.41,753/ha in 1996/1997. There is no clear evidence
regarding the link of this standardized national rate to POMs and NBBs at local levels.               Actual
expenditures, which is the key to sustainability, diverged significantly from target for the years for which
data is available: 54 percent (Rp.21,321) in 1993/1994 and 58 percent (Rp.24,155) for 1994/1995. As
noted below, collection of the ISF never reached significant levels. By 1998, provinces had generally
stopped distinguishing between EOM and non-EOM areas in the application of O&M budgets. Eventually,
the program was effectively dropped. It is noteworthy that, because the justification for the Irrigation
Development Component under the project was to prepare for entry into the EOM regime, failure of this
component has wide implications.




                                                   - 14 -

4.2.13    Irrigation Service Fee. This component is rated as "highly unsatisfactory" in its original form.
However, following the design revision incorporated in the LA amendment of December 7, 2000, it is rated
as "satisfactory" because of the institutional impact of PKPI and the formation of WUAFs. The program
initially suffered from uneven, ineffective coverage and unsatisfactory levels of fee collection. Among
implementation difficulties faced were: (a) the apparent lack of commitment, incentives and institutional
arrangements at all levels of government to implement ISF as designed (emphasising the twin principles of
"fee for service" and "service for fee"); and (b) a lack of transparency regarding spending of fees collected.
The collections were very modest and collection efficiency was low. In 1997/1998, actual ISF collection in
Java provinces was Rp.1.53 billion compared with a target of Rp.8.42 billion, a collection efficiency of 18
percent. It could patently not serve as a viable funding basis for O&M. At the peak of collections in
1994/1995, ISF covered less than 2 percent of O&M expenditures. Only 25 percent of ISF collection in
1997/1998 was reinvested in O&M support. Given this poor performance, a moratorium was imposed in
1996 on the use of loan resources for ISF although government reiterated its commitment to the program.
The ISF program was later revived in a modified form after a new directive was announced in September
1998 (allowing ISF to be retained by farmers in newly-established WUA bank accounts). It has been
developed into the concept of a WUA membership fee as part of the PKPI program.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1    During project preparation, economic analysis was carried out for the Irrigation Development and
Turnover components, which together accounted for 62 percent of the project's base costs. The main
perceived benefits were improved crop yields, higher cropping intensities and area salvage (i.e., the
avoidance of a reduction of the irrigated area reduction through better maintenance), in the case of the
Irrigation Development component, and increased second season cropping intensity in the case of the
Turnover component.       Average economic rates of return (ERRs) were 17 percent for rehabilitation
(development) and 15 percent for turnover. At the MTR, the ERR for rehabilitation was estimated at 26
percent and expected to be higher for turnover. As in case of the MTR, economic analysis for this
Implementation Completion Report was hampered by the lack of project-specific benefit data; mission
estimates suggest that the ERR is 16 percent for rehabilitation and 15 percent for turnover. Although close
to SAR figures, these are lower than the MTR estimates.               The lower ERRs reflect deteriorating
"terms-of-trade" for crops; product prices in 2002 are lower than in previous years while inputs costs at the
farm gate are higher. It also reflects a more cautious outlook on area salvage and the need for periodic
maintenance, relating to the fact that a sustainable O&M system could not be established.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1   No financial rate of return or other financial indicator was calculated for the project or any of its
components. For an analysis of farm incomes, see Annex 3.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1   The impact of the project on institutional development is rated as "high". With regard to RBWRM,
coordination and implementation committees and Balais were established and are operational in the project
provinces.    These institutions are embedded in a new legal framework.             Planning units have been
established at the Centre and West Java, and in Central and East Java, and river basin plans have been
developed and legalized for use by other planning agencies. The hydrology program has been legislatively
strengthened and is now organized under a national-level sub-directorate. With regard to irrigation O&M,
although the project development goal for fiscally-sustainable O&M was not reached, the project was
instrumental in the dissemination and general acceptance of the principles of demand-driven,



                                                     - 15 -

community-managed irrigation systems as well as user involvement and the payment of fees to cover
O&M.      WUAs, which lay dormant for many years, have been revived as legalized autonomous
organizations that are federated into larger management structures and oriented towards serving the needs
of their members (rather than those of the government). Moreover, the redoubling of effort towards
irrigation management that has occurred since 1999 in the context of support for the PKPI program has
helped to put in place a set of laws, policy and regulatory frameworks, blueprints for institutional
arrangements (between different levels of government, government and water users, and other
stakeholders), and good practices regarding WUA/WUAF involvement/empowerment, which provide a
sound basis for the development of a sustainable system of O&M. The project has also played a key role
in piloting key initiatives under the WATSAL reform program.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1   The economic crisis during 1997/1999 was a major event that affected project outcomes in a variety
of ways. First, the sharp depreciation of the Indonesia Rupiah meant increased local currency resources
were available, which allowed some portions of the loan to be cancelled and the loan period to be extended
by two years. Ensuing political changes led to genuine devolution through increased regional autonomy
(which gave prime responsibility for the management of natural resources - hence water and irrigation - to
the district administrations) and fiscal decentralization. This created the right conditions for far-reaching
water sector reform (under the WATSAL) in which, as attempted by this project, a genuinely participatory,
demand-driven, user-managed and partly user-funded system of O&M could be developed. On the other
hand, the fiscal crisis led to counterpart funding constraints and delays in the release of annual budgets
which affected implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1    Project implementation was hampered by a number of factors. There were persistent delays in
providing legal or regulatory underpinnings for various changes (e.g., setting-up of Balai PSDAs,
addressing jurisdictional issues in policies on water rights, allocation, and pollution abatement). Staffing in
some cases, especially for the RBWRM and Hydrology components, suffered from problems of inadequate
numbers, inappropriate skills and assignment of full-time staff still having other duties and responsibilities.
Government commitment to implementing key aspects of the project (such as ISF and EOM) did not appear
sufficiently strong and were, in effect, rendered obsolete by the administrative decentralization and fiscal
equalization legislation in 1999. Problems were also experienced in the adequate and timely release of
counterpart funds which caused implementation to be "bunched-up" at certain points of the fiscal cycle: this
particularly affected the work of Community Organizers, introduced in 2000, to promote PKPI. During the
project period, there were several changes of government and reorganizations of departments (including the
abolition of the Ministry of Public Works, its split into a Ministry of Settlements and Regional
Development and a State Ministry of Public Works, the abolition of the latter in 1999, and the creation of
the Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure in 2001). This led to changes in key personnel at
the top and an atmosphere of uncertainty.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1   There were several weaknesses in implementation which adversely affected project progress. There
were insufficient funding and provision of basic resources for many activities. The hydrology component,
in particular, suffered persistent problems. Some reflected organizational and institutional uncertainties



                                                     - 16 -

relating to the existence, role and responsibility of the Public Works Agencies until its consolidation in
2001. Others related to the insufficient provision of resources such as vehicles, equipment/instrumentation
repair workshops and allowances for field operations.          To institutionalize water resources planning
activities within the DGWRD, a planning unit was established in line with the SAR. However, because of
the continual reorganization of ministries responsible for water resources, this unit was disbanded for all
practical purposes. It was later re-established in 2001. There were also significant delays in the hiring of
some consultants, especially for the ISF in the project's initial stages. There was a marked tendency in the
pre-MTR period, noticed in earlier projects as well, to focus more on physical activities than on
institutional changes, thus departing from the project's original design and purpose. Gaps and weaknesses
in project or component-specific monotoring and evaluation indicators meant that operationally-relevant
monitoring information was not readily available. However, it should also be recognized that the project
was complex, with a high "innovation" content, and involved actions across a wide range of fronts: legal,
administrative, institutional, organisational, physical and community-based. Implementation in most cases
responded well to these challenges, especially after the MTR.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1    At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US$304.0 million, of which US$165.7 million
was to be financed through the Bank loan, US$133.8 million by the government and US$4.5 million by
WUAs. There were three partial cancellations of the loan: US$22 million on August 26, 1998, US$12.0
million on December 13, 1999 and US$7.2 million on September 14, 2000. The steep fall in the value of
Indonesian Rupiah against the US dollar following the economic crisis released additional funds in local
resources, making it possible to effect these cancellations without having an impact on project activities.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1    Project sustainability, in the specific sense of the probability of maintaining the level of benefits
generated (or expected to be generated) in relation to the objectives over the lifetime of the project, is
regarded as "likely".

6.1.2   River Basin Water Resource Management. The sustainability of the planning capacity in central
and provincial planning units appears relatively weak for two main reasons: (a) the planning teams are
essentially functional (i.e., not institutionalized as structural units with a regular source of funding for
routine activities); and (b) the maintenance and up-grading of the recently acquired skills base is unlikely
because of attrition (through staff transfer, promotion or retirement) without adequate replacement because
of a lack of training resources.         With respect to river basin resource management, the Balai is
institutionally stable, having an appropriate basis in current legislation. However, although there are
differences between provinces, overall operational sustainability looks weak because of a lack of sufficient
skilled and motivated staff and only modest levels of secured budgetary funding. These shortcomings are
to be addressed under the forthcoming WISMP 1.




                                                      - 17 -

6.1.3    Hydrology. At present, the sustainability of the hydrological network is weak because: (a) the
Sub­Directorate's work load is extensive while the current human and budgetary resources available are
inadequate; (b) there is insufficient funding for operation, inspection and maintenance provided from
routine budgets at the Provincial and Balai level; and (c) staff skills and capacities are still inadequate.
More generally, a major constraint on the performance of hydrological units is the project-oriented
financing system and the allocation of financial and human resources. At present, routine allocations
provide for staff salaries, office operations and some inspection and observation costs. Maintenance and
renewal costs are covered by the national budget through a project mode, leading to uncertainty of funding
and dependency of operations on central and provincial agencies.          All these shortcomings are to be
addressed under the forthcoming WISMP 1.

6.1.4    Irrigation Development. O&M of rehabilitated schemes should have been included under the
EOM program. However, data does not appear to be available to check whether subsequent maintenance
has been or is being carried out. More generally, the sustainability of rehabilitated schemes depends on the
adoption of a regular and systematic O&M program, adequate funding (including cost recovery), and
institutional capabilities. Given that the ill-functioning EOM program had to be abandoned half-way
through, the present situation regarding all these essential elements is either weak or unclear. In the last
three years, the project has piloted the PKPI program but that has not resulted in a decisively sustainable
O&M system at this stage. These recent steps, however, create favorable conditions for a viable and
sustainable O&M system to emerge, especially under the project design of WISMP 1 (to be applied in all
Java provinces) and the forthcoming PISP supported by the Asian Development Bank.

6.1.5    Turnover. Small-scale schemes turned-over to WUAs are still likely to require some intervention
from district authorities should major repairs become necessary. Another issue is the difficulty of getting
the irrigators to take care of the weirs and gates at the headworks and the main canal. In Yogyakarta, for
example, 40 out of 194 small-scale schemes covered under Special Maintenance showed a lack of main
canal maintenance by WUAs. At this stage, it is not clear what the roles and responsibilities of the district
in this regards are and how budgetary allocations will be made for such work. Under the new PKPI, the
idea of a "Service Agreement", which describes the sharing of irrigation management and financing
between districts and WUAs, is being piloted. At this time, however, these Service Agreements are not
backed by any system of enforcement or sanction, and their implementability in practice is not clear.
Finally, the size of the schemes can also be important. In smaller schemes (less than 150 ha), which have
some shared O&M experience and a stronger sense of community, WUAs may be easier to activate and
more effective in undertaking O&M than in larger schemes. A JIWMP-supported national workshop held
in November 2002 addresses the needs of small village schemes under PKPI.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1      Post-completion operational plans aim to sustain institutional changes and other project
interventions and to develop them further. However, firm arrangements for technical and financial support,
including provision of adequate inputs, staff and training, have not been presented. The plans, therefore,
seem dependent upon the nature of annual budgetary priorities and allocations.

6.2.2   It would be desirable for the Bank to monitor key "outcomes" or "impacts", in particular: (a) the use
of river basin plans as tools for effective coordination, long-term investment planning and other allocational
decisions; (b) the functioning of Balais to ensure greater cross-sectoral inputs into river basin management
and further development of water and cost accounting systems; and (c) O&M in areas rehabilitated and
small schemes turned-over by the project (the current state of O&M, the current funding sources and the



                                                      - 18 -

size of any "funding gap" to secure steady-state, sustainable O&M, and the current roles being played by
the key agencies involved. However, performance targets or indicators to measure these are either lacking
or ill-defined within the current monitoring and evaluation system.

6.2.3    The project should be evaluated 24-30 months after loan closure. Points of specific focus should
be: (a) the quality and timeliness of river basin plans and their relevance as a coordination and decision
tool; (b) the impact of the river basin water management approach on operations/processes relating to
allocation and utilization of water; (c) the funding of O&M, including sources of funding, their
sustainability, and the size of any funding gap; (d) incentives for farmers to participate in irrigation
cost-recovery schemes, as well as in WUAFs and other forums; (e) transparency in collection, accounting
and expenditure of farmer fees; and (f) accountability within community organizations, including
regularity/fairness of elections, democratic decision-making, and sanctions for breach of contracts.

6.2.4    Given the ground work that has been laid in the last three years under IMPR and water sector
reform and the fact that sustainable O&M still remains a tantalizing goal in an economy where irrigated
agriculture is a priority sector, a follow-up project is desirable to capitalize on the opportunities that have
recently opened up. This should be based on a thorough testing of designs regarding devolution, locally
autonomous funding and participatory, community-driven processes with respect to: (a) the strength and
"reliability" of individual and group incentives (including the scope for and gains from deviating from
agreed rules); (b) accountability and transparency; and sanctions for contractual non-compliance; and (c)
simplicity and robustness of design.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1 The Bank's lending performance is rated as "unsatisfactory". The Bank's strong endorsement of the
replication of the ISSP II model and its role in developing and approving the project design is questionable.
The basis for main-streaming of ISF and EOM on a large scale and the problematic institutional
arrangements should have been more robustly queried. In appraising the project, an overly-optimistic
assessment seems to have been formed about the government's commitment to legal, institutional and
administrative reform in the initial phases, the capacity of the implementing agency, and the extent of initial
preparedness

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1      The overall supervision performance is rated as "satisfactory". Supervisions were generally
thorough and diligent.      The Bank was flexible and responsive in suggesting or approving needed
modifications, including two extensions of the Loan's Closing Date, which became important as the
economic conditions and the political regime changed. Component ratings during supervision are typically
more generous than those included in this report.          With hindsight, supervision may be faulted for
insufficient problem perception or proactive response (e.g., EOM is rated as "unsatisfactory" only once,
just before it was effectively scrapped by the government). However, it should be remembered that the
project was being implemented in unusually challenging political and economic conditions. In these
circumstances, there is some value to keeping options open, in the hope that implementation difficulties
related to turmoil or political "short-termism" may disappear. Bank supervision documents show an
awareness of the implementation problems with respect to several key components in the early years of the
project. Under the circumstances, the Bank strategically chose to remain engaged, perhaps to retain
leverage over the emerging reform process. This strategy seems to have paid off in the post-crisis years


                                                     - 19 -

when this project could be used as a vehicle to serve the needs of the government's major irrigation reform
process and to prepare or to pilot key initiatives. This was done energetically by the Bank, using the
opportunities available to try out ideas inherent in the original SAR design as well as to extend them in the
light of implementation experience. This has created a significant momentum of reform, with widespread
stakeholding (amongst government, farmers, civil society and other members of the donor community), and
has led to the emergence of an approach which, with due testing and modifications, could prove to become
a viable model for irrigation management and reform.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1   Overall Bank performance is rated as "satisfactory". The Bank started out with a poorly-designed
project (even though it seemed to accord with prevailing conventional wisdom) and encountered substantial
implementation difficulties arising from political uncertainty and administrative inaction (including
extended delays in the hiring of key consultants). Progress in the initial phase in both river basin and
irrigation components was difficult because of the lack of suitable legislative and institutional support
(including lack of empowered users' institutions). However, its continued engagement produced a situation
in which it was able to strategically support the GOI's efforts at large-scale water sector reform and,
through it, create conditions that are genuinely conducive to the original development goals of the project.
The recent energetic use of the project as a vehicle for piloting reform ideas is a commendable exploitation
of circumstances that were unforeseeable at the stage of appraisal, even though it is in the context of an
evolving reform agenda and process.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1    The Bank's performance in preparation is rated as "unsatisfactory". Project design and approach
suffered from several deficiencies. The design of the irrigation component can be questioned because of its
emphasis on rehabilitation and repair of the existing system, as exemplified in the Special Maintenance
sub-component, rather than on the "modernization" of the system to make it more O&M-friendly before
graduating the schemes to EOM. It was also not clear how the expansion, by about 15,500 ha, of existing
medium-sized public irrigation schemes would be achieved. The main components of the irrigation part of
the project (EOM, ISF, Turnover), although introduced in earlier projects, had not yet been sufficiently
main-streamed and lacked a blue-print of detailed, settled steps for transition from the old system. In
irrigation management, neither design nor implementation was sufficiently participatory.            Too much
attention was paid to the critical path sequencing of SM and EOM while more fundamental problems of
user "ownership" and involvement in design and construction, institutional strengthening and capacity
building were neglected. The issue of the lack of institutional coordination between DGWRD, DGPUOD
and DGBangda was either not recognized or not faced up to, and proved an important factor in the early
failure of the ISF program. The target dates for full-scale operation for activities such as the establishment
of Balai PSDA and PPTPA, Quality Assurance and Technical Audits proved wildly optimistic. The
project design was heavily reliant on consultant inputs, even for aspects of project coordination (e.g., the
consultant for the national coordination team), work programming, M&E and some implementation-related
activities. This raises questions about the extent of capacity building enabled by the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1 This is rated as "satisfactory" because of the performance after 1998. Initially, components such as
RBWRM and hydrology, which were dependent upon the introduction of a comprehensive set of policies
and actions related to integrated basin management, were delayed because of the lack of timely



                                                     - 20 -

governmental legislative and organizational inputs. There were delays and difficulties in approving or
implementing organizational changes and appointing managerial staff.           Changes in the government's
position with respect to EOM and ISF undermined these two critical components of the project. Release of
funds, particularly counterpart funds, became a problem, especially after the economic crisis. This caused
implementation effort to be "bunched-up" at certain points of the fiscal cycle. It should also be borne in
mind that during the project period there had been a number of changes of government and reorganization
of ministries. This led to changes in key personnel at the top as well as an atmosphere of uncertainty,
which no doubt explains some of the problems faced by the executing agencies.

7.5.2    However, since 1998/1999, the GOI has taken a number of significant steps which created a
favourable environment for water management reform. In 1999, Inpres 3/99, Law 22 on decentralization,
and Law 25 on the arrangement of regional and national finance were issued. Beside the legalization of the
PKPI policy, the decentralization legislation, in effect, gives the provinces full planning authority with
respect to resources located inside the province and kabupaten. Similarly, the Ministerial Decree on
hydrology, issued in 2001, has elevated the status of hydrology nationally.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1   Overall, this is rated as "satisfactory". The performance of the two agencies (DGWRD and
DGPUOD) involved before the MTR was unsatisfactory but that of their successor agencies (DGWRD and
DGBangda) has been satisfactory.        The DGWRD focused more on "physical" activities rather than
capacity building and participatory activities; in the initial "phase" of implementation (until 1998/1999)
there was very little WUA development and empowerment, both the preparation for and the actual turnover
of small schemes by provincial governments took a long time (a year or more), post-turnover division of
roles and responsibilities was ambiguous, and there was little post-turnover support and monitoring of
WUAs. Staffing difficulties (insufficient numbers, inappropriate skills, assigned staff having other existing
responsibilities elsewhere) seriously affected implementation in the RBWRM and Hydrology components.
There were inadequacies of oversight in engineering design by DGWRD staff (e.g., the design of major
works was done without sub-soil investigations or design of contour, canals were constructed without soil
sampling or test pits). As may be inferred from the descriptions above, the DGPUOD's performance was
so weak that it had to be formally replaced by DGBangda for the period 2000-2002.

7.6.2   From mid-1998, a number of implementation changes were introduced with the active support of
DGWRD and DGBangda.             Pilot reform measures and innovative practices were accepted by these
implementing agencies and the project management, adequate and appropriate staff support was provided,
and a sense of ownership was fostered by undertaking joint supervision missions with the Bank. Both
DGWR and DGBangda played important role in the implementation of the PKPI, in addition, DGBangda
has greatly supported the implementation by utilizing its relations with the newly-autonomous provincial
and district governments to improve management and performance in PKPI.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1  Overall performance is rated as "satisfactory". Unsatisfactory preparation and initial unsatisfactory
performance over the first half of the project's life meant that the objective of achieving sustainable O&M
funding by project closure could not be realized and that the presumed benefits from the sizable investments
in the earlier phase of the project may not be ensured. However, there has been praiseworthy performance
in recent years in promoting PKPI and introducing river basin-related institutional reforms.             The
achievements under the JIWMP enabled its institutional models to be replicated for 2002-2004 in seven
off-Java provinces under the Indonesia Water Resources & Irrigation Reform Implementation Project



                                                     - 21 -

(supported by a Netherlands Grant of US$12.1 million administered by the Bank). It is expected that these
institutional developments will bear fruit under follow-on projects, such as WISMP 1 and PISP.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1 The following lessons arise from a review of the project implementation experience:
·        Transferring water management to farmers on a gradual basis is critical for effective and
         sustainable reform.      Transferring governance authority to WUAs/federations improves water
         allocation decisions, the prioritization of maintenance works, and the design and quality of
         construction. User-focused financial arrangements, where irrigation fees are collected from and
         managed by farmers, are the key to long-run financial sustainability and accountability. Also, the
         devolution of irrigation responsibility to lower levels of government is necessary to enable the
         government effectively to play the role of enabler, regulator and occasional provider of repairs and
         improvements beyond the capacity of farmers. Project experience suggests that recent political and
         administrative decentralization in Indonesia has provided opportunities for genuine and significant
         progress in this regard.

·        Long-term commitment to reform agenda. For those components, such as EOM and ISF, where
         continued government support is crucial, modes of engagement need to be devised to keep
         government policy on agreed trajectories, especially in the face of short-term considerations. More
         realistic assessments of the risk of loss of political momentum need to be factored into project
         design. Recently issued government regulations and ministerial decrees provide a more credible
         framework for the design of medium- to long-term intervention strategies.

·        Effective water resources management is best undertaken within a river basin framework
         that: (a) takes account of all water users to ensure efficient and effective (surface and groundwater)
         allocation; (b) integrates irrigation development with land-use planning; (c) pays attention to
         environmental aspects of water use, including up-stream water management and water quality; and
         (d) undertakes integrated reform of government and farmer irrigation institutions.             Project
         experience shows that ensuring success of this process of inter-connected reforms requires
         adequate ground work at the design stage (especially legislative, administrative, financial and
         institutional preparedness) and adherence to the required sequence of reforms during the
         implementation stage.

·        "Transfer first, then rehabilitate, based on the demand". The project attempted to improve
         schemes and then transfer them in order to build up incentives for users to participate in the
         system. In practice, disagreements between water users and project implementers regarding the
         adequacy and extent of improvements (e.g., is the rehabilitation fully completed? should it cover
         tertiaries or secondaries?) made this a contentious, moving target. Also, such a sequence allowed
         project implementation to become more easily "construction-focused". More general experience
         suggests that the path of "transfer first, then rehabilitate" leads to better prioritization and user
         involvement in selection, design and execution of capital works and to greater community
         ownership over subsequent management and reform. It also provides the opportunity for a more
         explicit negotiation about cost-sharing between government and water users.             However, two
         caveats should be noted: (a) transfer should not be equated with government withdrawal from and
         abandoning of all irrigation responsibilities to farmers, since the farmers will then resist transfer;
         and (b) agreements made between the irrigation agency and water users need to be respected and
         enforced.




                                                      - 22 -

·       Sustainable O&M: full funding of NBB. A necessary condition for a sustainable O&M scheme
        is that the adequate funding should be available to meet fully the NBB year-by-year; otherwise, the
        scheme necessarily becomes one of deferred O&M, creating a need for periodic (costly)
        rehabilitation, rather than one of efficient, sustainable O&M. Therefore, current or proposed
        projects for sustainable O&M that aim to gradually build up revenue sources (e.g., through
        increasing collections from water users) to meet the target NBB will be necessarily associated with
        some deferral of maintenance.       Hence, these projects cannot be considered truly viable or
        sustainable unless they make provisions for capital expenses required for eventual rehabilitation -
        which is typically not the case.

·       Launching scaled-up versions of pilot or small-scale schemes. The following pitfalls need to be
        avoided. First, the key ingredients of a successful pilot scheme, rather than the formal features
        alone, should be present (e.g., in the case of ISF, farmers' expectations in pilot schemes are that
        ISF collections will be re-cycled for their use). Second, scaling up should not weaken or subvert
        the original design (e.g., it should be checked that the transparency and accountability that is
        possible within the informal structure and functioning of tertiary-level WUAs, with 50-300
        farmers, will obtain in WUA federations at the secondary and primary canal level, with 1000-1800
        farmers). Third, scaled-up versions should be transactionally viable and sustainable. Adequate
        analysis, using an appropriately designed M&E system, should be undertaken to understand the
        extent to which success of the pilots was related to intensive levels of preparation, implementation,
        and supervision - which may not be sustainable for scaled-up versions - and to Bank (or donor)
        presence, which creates an obvious pressure to succeed. Finally, given the dearth of available
        models of public administration devolution, decentralization, and participatory approaches, project
        design should pay more attention to detailed steps and have less ambitious implementation plans.

·       Project-focused M&E to monitor, manage and learn.               In O&M-related investments, it is
        important to use O&M-specific indicators (e.g., water quantity, reliability, area served,
        distributional equity, cost-effectiveness) rather than proxies such as agricultural output or farm
        income (where the contribution of irrigation can be overwhelmed by stochastic factors, such as rain
        fall). More generally, in projects such as this which involve physical investments as well as policy,
        process and institutional reforms, the nature of outcome/output should be defined more carefully
        and a structured set of quantitative indicators, tied to objectives, should be specified. The M&E
        program should include a base-line survey and independent qualitative assessments of major
        outputs during implementation and on completion. These are important in order to draw valid
        lessons from pilots and experimentations, assess specific impacts of project interventions and
        provide monitoring information of operational interest.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

This report covers all aspect of the components in the JWIMP SAR and provides the ratings for each
component. It is, however, disappointing to note that the rating of the project at the entry is unsatisfactory
due to unforseeable condition of the project during the initial stage. The government pleased to note that
the outcome has been rated as satisfactory.




                                                    - 23 -

It may be noted that the assumption of increase in production will directly increase of the farmers income
and therefore their ability to contribute to the O&M costs, may not always correct, therefore the project
design / formulation should take this item into consideration.

Reorganization at central level implied frequent disruptions in supervising directorates and staff, and
project concepts had to be explained frequently to new supervising officers.

The project concepts were prepared under the guidance of the former directorate of Irrigation I, in
DGWRD of the Ministry of Pubic Works. However, after the reorganization of DGWRD in 1994, the task
of physical implementation and institutional support were devided between directorate of Implementation
Guidance (Binlak) and Directorate of Utilization of water resources and conservation (PPSDA), which
need greater efforts for coordination to implement the project activities.


(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.


10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix




  Outcome / Impact Indicators
  Indicator/Matrix                           Appraisal Estimate            Actual (December 2002)



  DO1: Basin Water Resources Management

  Basin Plans                                                 3                           5
  Legalization of Basin Plans (after Public                   -                           4
  Consultation)
  Number of Balai PSDA established                            5                           24
  Number of Balai PSDA with full capacity                     5                           5
  for target range of BWRM activities
  DO2: Support for Efficient O&M (EOMa)
  Java Area under EOM                                   776,000 ha                   726,181 haa/
  Area introduced to EOM regime                         260,267 ha                   210,000 ha
  DO3: Expand cost recovery through ISFa//
  Introduce PKPI institutions & fees
  Area under ISF                             1.2 million ha (44 new Java    Reliable data not available a/

                                             Kabupatens)
  Cost recovery: Level of fee                80-100 percent of Need Based   Reliable data not available a/

                                             Budget (Rp 30,000-40,000b/ ha)
                                             by end of project
  Number of WUAFs in Java schemes ( >                                       378 WUAFs in 235 schemes
  500 ha)                                                                   covering 313,748 ha
  Irrigation management authority transfer                                  61 schemes in 18
                                                                            kabupatens covering 73,000
                                                                            ha
  Establishment of Kabupaten PKPI Task                                      76 kabupatens
  Force or embryo Irrigation Commission
  New ISF Pilot in ten schemes                                              Rp.10,000 ­ 70,000/ha in
  (WUAF/WUA membership fee)                                                 cash and kind (57 percent
                                                                            collection)
  DO4: Turnover of Small Schemes

  Area of small schemes managed by WUAs                 356,000 ha                   446,000 ha
  DO5: Remedial Works on Dumpil Irrigation
  Systemc/
  Area to be rehabilitated                              11,300 ha                      4,700 ha
  DO6: Rehabilitation/Development of Large
  Schemes (< 500 ha)
  Area for Rehabilitation/Development                   218,000 ha                   299,500 ha
  Participatory Design & Construction in                                    84,494 ha (27 percent of
  Rehabilitation/Development (from 1999)                                    total area rehabilitated )


a/Stopped in 1998 but re-established in 1999 under PKPI for WUAFs establishment and with membership fees.
b/Based on Appraisal "Needs-Based Budget".
c/Limited to 4,700 ha because of inadequate water availability.



                                                     - 25 -

Output Indicators:
                     Indicator/Matrix                       Appraisal Estimate         Actual (December 2002)




  BWRP Manuals                                                         -                           11
  Establishment of Balai PSDA                                         5                            24
  Establishment of Provincial Water Coordination                      4                            5a/
  Committee (PTPA)
  Establishment of Basin Water Coordination                     5 by Nov 1994                   5 in 1996
  Committee (PPTPA)                                                                            18 in 2000
  Public Consultations on Basin Management                             -                             6
  BWRM Manuals                                                         -                           70
  Number of Data-bases set up                                          -                           69
  Number of Basins/Balai PSDA with:

  Water Allocation Management                                         5                              8

  River Infrastructure Maintenance                                    5                            10

   Flood Management                                                   5                              6

   Water Resource Management Database                                 5                            23

   Hydrological Data-bases                                            5                            23
   Strengthening of Provincial Hydrological Units                     4                              5 a/


   Survey and Design for 'Turnover' Schemes                      398,400 ha                    401,700 ha  c/


   Survey and Design for Rehabilitation of Large                 161,000 ha             283,400 ha (of which
  Schemes (>500ha)                                                                      95,610 ha is
                                                                                        participatory)
   Number of Quality Assurance Manuals                               14 d/                         14
   Number of PKPI Manuals                                              -                           14
   Number of Community Organizers Deployed                             -                           388



 a/  Due to the formation of a new province in 2000
b/ Started after 1999
c/  100% by national consultants and design groups
d/ It is not clear if fourteen manuals were an appraisal target as they are not mentioned in the SAR




                                                          - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


                                       Project Cost by Component
                                         (US$ million equivalent)



                       Component                        Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                        Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
                                                       US$ million   US$ million
A. River Basin Water Resources Management

   A.1 River Basin Water Planning (BWRP)                   3.98         3.05            77
   A.2 River Basin Management (BWRM)                      24.12        19.66            82
B. Hydrology                                               3.80         3.50            92
C. Irrigation Turnover (IDTO)                             53.42        52.64            99
D. Irrigation Development                                 93.27        82.36            88
E. EOM                                                    47.25        22.59            48
F. ISF                                                     6.10         3.65            60
Project Administration                                     3.80         5.32           140
Physical Contingencies                                    24.22          -              -
Price Contingencies                                       44.04          -              -
Total Baseline Cost                                       304.00         -              -
Total Project Costs                                       304.00         -              -




                                                 - 27 -

                    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
                                              (US$ million equivalent)



      Expenditure Category                              Procurement Method       1/                      Total Cost
                                         ICB            NCB             Other  2/        N.B.F.
 1. Civil Works                          4.20         154.23              19.98              -            178.41
                                        (2.50)        (99.00)            (15.40)             -           (116.90)
 2. Equipment & Materials                7.50           0.97                -              3.44            11.91
                                        (7.50)         (0.70)               -             (0.00)          (8.20)
 3. Incremental Operating                 -               -               19.23              -             19.23
    Expenditures & Training               -               -              (14.30)             -            (14.30)
 4. Consultants Services                  -               -               21.38              -             21.38
                                          -               -              (15.90)             -            (15.90)
 5. Engineering Services                   -               -              10.31               -            10.31
                                                                         (9.60)                           (9.60)
 6. Efficient Operation and               -               -                 -             53.52            53.52
    Maintenance                                                                           (0.00)          (0.00)
 7. Administration                        -               -                 -              9.24            9.24
                                                                                          (0.00)          (0.00)
 Total                                  11.70         155.20              70.90           66.20           304.00
                                       (10.00)        (99.70)            (55.20)          (0.00)         (164.90)


1/
  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/
  Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
   contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
   operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
   units




                                                         - 28 -

                  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)
                                               (US$ million equivalent)



      Expenditure Category                              Procurement Method       1/                      Total Cost
                                         ICB            NCB             Other  2/        N.B.F.
 1. Civil Works                           -           101.77              2.08               -            103.85
                                          -           (72.16)            (1.56)              -            (73.72)
 2. Equipment & Materials                2.36           4.44              0.19             0.11            7.10
                                        (2.36)         (3.24)            (0.00)                           (5.60)
 3. Incremental Operating                 -               -               21.49              -             21.49
    Expenditures & Training               -                -             (17.10)             -            (17.10)
 4. Consultants Services                  -                -              22.13              -             22.13
                                           -               -             (18.42)             -            (18.42)
 5. Engineering Services                   -               -              10.29              -             10.29
                                                                         (9.67)                           (9.67)
 6. Efficient Operation and                -               -                -             22.59            22.59
    Maintenance                                                                           (0.00)          (0.00)
 7. Administration                         -              -                 -              5.32            5.32
                                                                                          (0.00)          (0.00)
               Total                     2.36         106.21              56.18           28.02           192.77
                                        (2.36)        (75.40)            (46.76)          (0.00)         (124.51)


1/
  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/
  Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
   contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
   operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
   units.




                                                         - 29 -

                              Project Financing by Component
                                  (US$ million equivalent)


         Component           Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of Appraisal
                             IDA    Govt.   Co-F.  Bank    Govt.   Co-F. Bank   Govt.     Co-F.
A. River Basin Water
Resources Management
   A.1 Basin Water Resource   3.26    0.72     -     2.71   0.34     -    83      47       -
        Planning (BWRP)
   A.2 Basin Water Resource  18.81    5.31     -    17.10   2.56     -    91      48       -
        Management (BWRM)
B. Hydrology                  3.15    0.65     -     3.12   0.39          99      60       -
C. Irrigation Turnover       33.76   15.16   4.50   36.52  12.17    3.95 108      72       88
D. Irrigation Development    64.52   28.75     -    61.77  20.59     -    96      65       -
E. EOM                        0.00   47.25     -     0.00  22.59     -            48       -
F. ISF                        4.94    1.16     -     3.29   0.37     -    66      31       -
   Sub-total:               128.45   98.99   4.50  124.51  58.99    3.95  97      57       -
Project Administration        -       3.80     -     -      5.32     -    -      140       -
Physical Contingencies       13.23   10.99     -     -        -      -    -        -       -
Price Contingencies          24.02   20.02     -     -       -       -    -       -        -
TOTAL:                      165.70  133.80   4.50  124.51  64.31    3.95  75      46       88




                                            - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Project Benefits

1.   The main perceived economic benefits from the project were increases in agricultural output. It was
assumed that rehabilitation/Special Maintenance, accompanied by sustainable O&M, would lead to higher
crop yields and cropping intensities and area salvage (avoidance of irrigated area reduction through better
maintenance) at the rate of 0.5 percent per year (15 percent over the project lifetime of 30 years).

2.       During project preparation, economic analysis was carried out for the irrigation development and
turnover components which together accounted for 62 percent of base costs. Sixteen ERRs were calculated
for rehabilitation depending upon initial yields and cropping intensities (four cases each) which ranged from
11 percent to 21 percent. Prospective project schemes were mapped on to cells of this matrix according to
yield/intensity characteristics generating a frequency distribution. Average EERs were estimated to be 17
percent for rehabilitation and 19 percent for expansion of irrigation schemes, with a weighted average for
irrigation development of 16.6 percent. The ERR for the turnover component was estimated at 15 pr cent.

ICR Re-estimation

3.       The economic benefits from rehabilitation and turnover have been re-evaluated for the ICR. For
comparability, the re-estimation tracked the original analysis as far as possible.                 The main
assumptions/features of the economic analysis are:

         (a) A project life of 30 years.
         (b) All costs and benefits have been updated to 2002 prices. Parity prices of major traded goods
              have been used, based on World Bank Commodity Price Projections for 2002. Financial
              prices of non-traded goods and services have been adjusted using a standard conversion factor
              (SCF) of 0.90 for all non-tradables except labour for which a SCF of 0.85 has been used.
         (c) In line with the SAR, the "without-project" situation is taken to be one in which there is a loss
              of five percent of irrigated area every year. In the case of turnover, in the "without-project"
              situation cropping intensity for the second crop is assumed to fall from 80 percent to 70
              percent.
         (d) Maize is taken as a representative palawija crop. Increase in the cropped area, associated
              with an increase in cropping intensity under the project, is allocated half to paddy and half to
              maize.
         (e) Increase in yields and cropping intensities are realized in two years.
         (f) O&M costs are included in the economic analysis at Rp 180,000 (US$20) per year. In fact,
              this appears to be roughly half the level required for sustainable O&M.
         (g) Given that a sustainable O&M system could not be established, it is assumed that some
              rehabilitation will be required approximately every six years, costing twenty five percent of
              the original rehabilitation costs. Area salvage gains are therefore also assumed to accrue for
              the first six years, after which they remain constant at that level.

4.       The ERR for rehabilitation is estimated to be 16 percent and that for turnover to be 15 percent. At
the MTR the ERR for rehabilitation was estimated at 26 percent and was expected to be higher for
turnover. Although the ICR estimates are close to the SAR figures, they are lower than MTR estimates.
The lower returns reflect deteriorating "terms-of-trade" for crop cultivation: parity prices for crop outputs
in 2002 are lower than in previous years while inputs costs at the farm gate are higher. It also reflects a
more cautious outlook on area salvage and the need for periodic maintenance, relating to the fact that a
sustainable O&M system could not be established.




                                                      - 31 -

5.       Farm Income. Increases in crop yields and cropping intensities have resulted in a corresponding
increase in production and farm incomes. It is estimated that, at 2002 prices, the net farm income in
rehabilitated schemes has increased by 6 percent. For a farm size of 0.5 ha, this would imply an estimated
annual income of Rp 3.2 million. Again, the magnitude of income increase in reduced by the fact that
parity prices for crop outputs are lower than before while input prices are higher.

Data

6.       The ICR analysis is based on mission estimates and partial, secondary data. As in case of the
MTR, lack of project-specific benefit data has hampered analysis despite a specific recommendation being
made at the time of the MTR for the strengthening of benefit M&E in order to assist economic analysis at
project closure.




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1992                      3    TEAM LEADER (1),
                                             IRRIGATION SPECIALIST(1) ,
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              1993                      7    TEAM LEADER (1),
                                             ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1), AGRONOMIST (1),
                                             WATER MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST(1), SENIOR
                                             ENGINEER (1), IRRIGATION
                                             SPECIALIST (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              1994                      8    TEAM LEADER (1),
                                             IRRIGATION SPECIALIST
                                             (2), ECONOMIST(1),
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1),
                                             AGRONOMIST (1),
                                             SENIOR ENGINEER (1),
                                             WATER RESOURCES
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision

              07/06/1994                3    IRRIG. ENGINEER (1);             HS              S
                                             WATER RES. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT/IRRIGATION
                                             (1)
              04/13/1995                3    IRRIG. ENGINEER (1);             U               S
                                             WATER RES. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT/IRRIGATION
                                             (1)
              11/15/1995                3    SR. ENGINEER (1);                U               S
                                             PROCUREMENT/IRRIGATION
                                             (1); SR. IRRIGATION ENG. (1)
              05/03/1996                4    TASK MANAGER (1); WATER          S               S
                                             RESOURCES (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT/IRRIGATION
                                             (1); QUALITY ASSURANCE
                                             (1)
              11/29/1996                6    TASK MANAGER (1); WATER          S               S
                                             RESOURCES (1);
                                             IRRIGATION/PROCUREMENT
                                             (1); ANTHROPOLOGY (1);
                                             QUALITY ASSURANCE (1);
                                             HYDROLOGY (1)



                                              - 33 -

      03/10/1998    5 MISSION LEADER/IRRIGAT       S     S
                      (1);
                      IRRIGATION/PROCUREMENT
                      (1); QUALITY ASSURANCE
                      (1); WATER USER
                      ASSOCIATION (1); WATER
                      RESOURCES MANAG. (1)
      08/14/1998    5 MISSION LEADER (1);          S     S
                      IRRIGATION/SOE REVIEW
                      (1); PROCUREMENT/TECH.
                      AUDI (1); BASIN
                      MANAG./HYDROLOGY (1);
                      IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT
                      (1)
      02/26/1999    6 MISSION LEADER (1); IRRIG.   S     S
                      DES. & DISB. (1); SOE
                      REVIEW (1); PROCUREMENT
                      & QA (1); WATER
                      MNGT./HYDROLOGY (1);
                      IRRIG. MGMT. TURNOVER
                      (1)
      02/26/1999    6 TEAM LEADER (1); IRRIG.&     S     S
                      SOE REVIEW (1); PROC. &
                      QUALITY ASSUR. (1); IRRIG.
                      CONSTRUCTION (1); WUA
                      DEVELOPMENT (1); WAT.
                      RES. MANAGEMENT (1)
      02/25/2000    6 MISSION LEADER (1);          HS    S
                      IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
                      WATER RESOURCES EXPERT
                      (1); IRRIGATION
                      MANAGEMENT (1); SOE
                      REVIEW (1); QUALITY
                      ASSURANCE (1)
      02/25/2000    6 MISSION LEADER (1);          HS    S
                      WATER RESOURCES EXPERT
                      (1); IRRIGATION
                      MANAGEMENT (1); DEPUTY
                      MISSION LEADER (1); SOE
                      REVIEW (1); QUALITY
                      ASSURANCE (1)
      03/30/2001    6 TEAM LEADER (1); TEAM        HS    S
                      MEMBER (2); CONSULTANT
                      (3)
      11/09/2001    4 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        HS    S
                      CONSULTANT (3)

ICR

      03/14/2002    5 TEAM LEADER (1);                   HS
                      CONSULTANT (3); CIVIL
                      ENG. (1)




                      - 34 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                       75.4                            246.1
  Appraisal/Negotiation                            18.3                             65.8
  Supervision                                    174.6                             922.8
  ICR                                            26.5*                              96.5
  Total                                          249.8                           1,331.2
*Estimated.
  Note: According to Bank's accounting system, consultant weeks were recorded only until Fiscal Year
          1999. Input values include all expenses, including consutlant staff weeks (fees).




                                                       - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.  ICR Mission Aide-Memoire

2.  Terms of Reference for Beneficiary Survey ("Study on Process Documentation and Impact of the
    Implementation of Irrigation Management Policy Reform in Indonesia")

3.  Report on Beneficiary Survey ("Study on the Impact of Irrigation Management Policy Reform
    (IMPR) Implementation in Indonesia")

4.  Questionnaire for Farmer Household Survey




                                              - 38 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

Background

1.       A beneficiary impact survey was carried out between Nov 2002 and Jan 2003 by a consortium of
independent researchers.The survey was initially scheduled to take place before the ICR mission so that its
results would feed into both the mission investigations and the subsequent Stakeholder Workshop.
However, this plan could not be realized. The survey was focused on the impact of implementation of
Irrigation Management Policy Reform (PKPI) in which JIWMP played a crucial role.

2.        The IMPR was formally introduced by the issuance of Presidential Instruction (INPRES) No. 3
in 1999.    It consisted of 5 main policies: (i) redefinition of tasks and responsibilities of irrigation
management institutions; (ii) empowerment of farmers via Water User Associations; (iii) transfer of
irrigation management to Water User Associations; (iv) financial reform in irrigation management; and (v)
sustainability of irrigation systems. Key aspects of it (especially the second and third objectives) were
already being piloted in seven irrigation systems ("field laboratories") across Java and Yogyakarta since
1998/99. In 2000, following draft regulation on irrigation based on the INPRES 3/99, GOI decided to
extend IMPR to more districts in Java as well as to provinces outside Java with partial financial support
from JIWMP. Field activities of the irrigation management reform program were started in 2001. In the
same year the new regulation on irrigation (PP77/01) was accepted by parliament.

3.       The Terms of Reference of the survey, consultants' report on the study (unedited) and
questionnaire used are provided as supporting documents (listed in Annex 7).

Organization and Methodology

4.       The study was based on primary data collected through (i) the household survey, (ii) PRA through
Focus Group Discussions (FGDs) at the grass root level (Water Users Association Federation ­ WUAF or
GP3A in Bahasa), and (iii) FGDs at district levels; and relevant secondary data. Twenty-one Java districts
were selected: six each from east Java, from west Java, and from central Java and Banten, and three from
Yogyakarta province. In each district, the best and worst performing GP3A, ranked by the irrigation
commission, were chosen for study.

5.       Household surveys were conducted in 12 of these districts. For the survey, 60 respondents were
selected from each of the two WUAF/GP3As in the chosen districts: 20 each from head-, middle- and
tail-end of the irrigation system. The sample of 20 respondents from each hydrologic section was selected
by stratified random sampling to adequately reflect size, tenancy status and gender variables.

6.       The study was undertaken on behalf of the World Bank by a core team of nine senior researchers
belonging to member institutions of the NGOs-Universities Consortium for Water Resource Development.
In implementing this study, several members belonging to provincial consortium were recruited as district
researchers. Moreover, field enumerators were also mobilized to help the district researchers in the conduct
of household surveys.

7.       The study, which was carried out between November 2002 and January 2003, was also enriched
by several workshops conducted during preparation, mid-term and final stages.           Initially, workshops
between senior researchers and the Bank were organised to formulate an acceptable proposal of the study
for both sides. Internal workshops were also conducted at provincial levels under the coordination of each
provincial coordinator. The mid-term workshop conducted in Malang, in the first week of February 2003,


                                                   - 39 -

was aimed at reviewing progress of the study under the supervision of the Bank's consultant. The final
workshop was scheduled to be held in Jakarta in April 2003, involving stakeholders representing donor
agencies, bureaucrats, NGOs and university personnel.

Synthesis of Survey Results

8.      The findings can be summarised under: (i) institutional impact; (ii) technical impact; and (iii)
socio-economic impact. By design, the study refers to IMPR/PKPI and not to other aspects or components
of JIWMP. These other aspects have, however, been through stakeholder workshops organised as part of
ICR mission (Annex 9 below). Also, since all study sites were included under PKPI, the results below
reflect a "before/after" comparison rather than a "with/without project" comparison (i.e., there is no
"control" in the study design to filter out other changes that may be simultaneously occurring during the
implementation period). Finally, the responses are ordinal in nature (i.e., "better" or "worse" but without
any indication of "how much" better/worse).

9.      Overall, there appears to be no significant difference between the performance between laboratory
and non-laboratory sites included in this study. Therefore, the report below focuses on the overall impact
of PKPI implementation in all the sites.



Institutional Impact

            Table 1. Respondents Views on Institutional Impact of PKPI Implementation

                   Feature                       Better (%)    Same (%)        Worse
                                                                                 (%)
Activities of P3A Organization                       66            29              5
Transparency of P3A Activities and Finance           58            36              6
Democratic Process of P3A                             61           35              4
Participation in Meetings of P3A Members              53           40              7
Labour Contribution by P3A Members                    63           33              4
Participation in Cropping Pattern Decisions           41           56              3
Farmer Water Use Awareness                            53           43              4
Decline in Water Conflict                             58           39              3
Support from Village Government                       57           37              6
Support from Related Departments                      57           35              8
Role of NGOs and Universities                         50           45              5
Role of Women in P3A                                 19            70             11




                                                   - 40 -

Technical Impact

              Table 2. Respondents Views on Technical Impact of PKPI Implementation

                    Feature                      Better (%) Same (%)  Worse
                                                                       (%)
Timely allocation of water                          51        40         9
Availability of water                               39        41        20
Fairness and Just Distribution of Water              56       37         7
Water Use Accuracy                                   40       53         7
Efficiency of Water Use                              47       48         5
Quality of Water Infrastructure                      57       31        12
Accuracy       (Suitability)    of     Irrigation   51.5      46.5       2
Infrastructure
Quality of Operation Management                      55       38         7
Area Coverage of Irrigation Water                    28       62        10
Protection of Irrigation Environment                 55       39         6
Protection of Irrigation Infrastructure              50       42         8
Maintenance of Water Leakage                         51       33         6
Irrigation Infrastructure Maintenance               61        35         4



Socio-Economic Impact

           Table 3. Respondents Views on Socio-Economic Impact of PKPI Implementation

                    Feature                      Better (%) Same (%)  Worse
                                                                       (%)
Cropping Intensity                                  37        61         2
Production of Paddy per Ha                          53        40         7
Harvesting Assurance                                 43       50         7
Crop Diversification                                 27       70         3
Business Diversification                             23       74         3
Food Availability at Household Level                 49       44         7
Food Availability at Village Level                   40       54         6
Availability of Agricultural Jobs                    33       54        13
Transactions in Irrigation Water                     28       66         6
Effectiveness of Financing for O&M and R/U           50       45         5
Influence on Farmer Income                           51       39        10
Influence on Poverty Alleviation                     40       54         6
Non-Agricultural Activities                          34       62         4
Enthusiasm for Food-Farm Business                    54       40         6
Food Farming Risk Situation                         52        42         6




                                                  - 41 -

10.      It is clear from the summary results that the PKPI process has been associated with positive impact
in nearly all the relevant aspects. The impact on social and institutional aspects has been stronger that
socio-economic ones, perhaps because the latter occur with a longer time lag.

11.      Beyond PKPI. Despite the positive experience with PKPI, strong concern has been expressed on
the ground that economic performance is highly dependent upon marketing prospects, which go beyond
issues of PKPI implementation. Market-related concerns are the most important potential constraint for
farmers in achieving greater prosperity through PKPI implementation. Marketability of products will
determine directly local capacity for financing irrigation O&M and therefore the sustainability of the
overall irrigation system.




                                                     - 42 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

Organization and Methodology

1.      A two-tiered stakeholder consultation exercise was undertaken by the ICR mission in course of its
work in June 2002. First, a set of four provincial stakeholder workshops were organised in each of the
provinces where the mission undertook field visits. This was followed by a national stakeholder workshop
at which key members from central, provincial, district and village level were invited.

2.      The methodology was as follows. For provincial workshops, individuals representing a cross
section of stakeholders (farmers, WUA and WUAF members, NGOs, consultants, and relevant university
faculty) were collected together at one venue to participate in a structured discussion regarding the project
on the following topics: project relevance and effectiveness; implementation process; participatory
orientation; benefits; sustainability; problems and constraints; opportunities; project performance;
suggestions and recommendations; and miscellaneous. The purpose of the stakeholder workshop and the
context for each topic was briefly introduced by the ICR team after which an open discussion followed.
For each topic, the respondents were given cards on which they were invited to write anonymously any
comment or suggestion they may have. These cards were collected and their responses were later collated
by the team, as input for the national stakeholder workshop. The provincial workshops were held in
Surabaya (E. Java) on June 7, Yogyakarta on June 9, Semarang (C. Java) on June 12 and Bandung (W.
Java) on June 18, 2002.

3.      The national workshop was held in Jakarta on June 21, 2002. It consisted of representatives of
central agencies, provincial agencies, district agencies, WUAFs, NGOs and Universities. The workshop
was initiated by presentations by the ICR team on the purpose of the consultation as well as key issues
arising from provincial stakeholder consultations and the mission's own field work. The main discussion
was structured around seven themes or "questions". Apart from oral presentations, participants were
invited to provide comments and quick evaluations through providing a response, for each question, in
terms of simple gradation system in terms of "red" (poor), "yellow" (fair) or "green" (good).

Synthesis of Workshop Consultations

Effectiveness of JIWMP

4.      With regard to effectiveness, prior to 1999 the project had many weaknesses. The project was
considered too construction-oriented, too project-oriented, top-down and non-transparent. After 1999,
effectiveness improved considerably for all components.         However, accountability, transparency and
democracy, aimed for after 1999, are still to show appreciable improvement. In many cases government
agencies are still very much biased towards construction. The "percentage system" in KKN (a Bahasa
acronym for an entrenched system of corruption and influence-peddling) is still perceived as having an
adverse effect on farmer participation and the appropriateness and quality of the works. Works carried out
by the WUAF are reportedly of a significantly better quality at a lower cost.

5.      The post 1999 irrigation project is highly relevant to satisfying the needs at the grass-root level. A
minority suggested need for more bottom-up orientation. Current interventions are effective in improving
productivity only, not farm income. This could have been improved if integration of the project with other
supporting farm activities was stronger.




                                                    - 43 -

6.       Whereas central and provincial institutions are considered effective, the institutions at the district
and village levels, in many cases, lack effectiveness. A clear definition of the new tasks (redefinisi tugas)
under PKPI, creation of awareness, and better coordination between district agencies and WUAF is
required.

7.       The development of institutions for the BWRM component, especially when planning and
management were integrated in BWRMP (Basin Water Resource and Management Planning), was
successful; however, capacity building activities for 19 Balai PSDA are still required.

Impact of JIWMP

8.       The outcome/impact of the BWRM/BWRMP component was more structured data bases,
improved staff capabilities, better access to information and a better understanding of integrated water
resources management. This resulted in acceptance of the Balai PSDA as the authority in the river basin
and facilitated organised bulk water allocation and distribution.

9.       The major impact of the irrigation component is that JIWMP made implementation of PKPI
possible through piloting and development of implementation procedures for WUAF establishment and,
participatory design and construction. Systems have been turned over, institutions have been established
and management capacity has improved (though this still needs to be done much better). More specific
impacts of the irrigation component, especially after 1999, are mentioned as: improved participation, better
water distribution, increase in production, improved cooperation among farmers, and better physical
management.

10.      The transfer of management authority to WUAF has a good impact; however, it requires follow up
to attain sustainability. The duration of Community Organizers' involvement should be increased and the
scope of activities should not only concentrate on water-related activities but also on the wider
socio-economic environment of irrigated agriculture.         The increase in agricultural production has
unfortunately not led to increased income for farmers due to lower farm-gate prices. Policy and other
regulatory aspects are not conducive in supporting JIWMP objectives. Most important among them are
market policy, input price policy and floor price policy.

11.      Where implemented, the project developed awareness and a sense of belonging in farmers.
Involvement of WUA in the project has been widely acknowledged. Though its role as well as its
confidence to accept management responsibilities has increased, self-reliance of WUAs is still far away as
it cannot be expected that WUAFs will have the capability to undertake major rehabilitation and
improvement works at this stage in their development.

Sustainability

12.      To keep up the momentum behind PKPI, BWRMP and the overall reform process, JIWMP needs
to be continued but must be significantly improved. It seems premature to stop the program as JIWMP
outcome will only become sustainable if new financial support is available for a follow-up program. In
case this project is continued, careful evaluation is needed for providing supporting regulations, suitable
manpower and equipment, and availability of fund. A project specific M&E system, run by third party,
has to be put in place.        Continuity has been facilitated through the Netherlands-supported and
Bank-administered FY 2002-2003 Indonesia Water & Irrigation Reform Implementation Project (IWIRIP)
for mainly 12 Outer Island provinces. As of January 1, 2004, full PKPI implementation and, WUAF and


                                                    - 44 -

kabupaten irrigation agency capacity building will be supported by the recently negotiated First Water
Resources & Irrigation Sector Management Project (WISMP 1).

13.      Institutionally, BWRM existence is clear and sustainable because it is stated in regional
regulations. However, institutional strengthening is still needed. Routine operation of BWRM is being
supported by provincial budgets. BWRM and hydrology are two among important components that must
be continued due to their positive impact on regional development.            Some provinces have strong
commitment to Balai PSDA. Human resource availability may be a serious problem because there is no
new recruitment, but former irrigation staff can be retrained for BWRM. In the future, some Balai PSDA
could be converted into river basin corporations (e.g. in the Jratunseluna and Serayu-Bogowonto basins of
Central Java) .

14.      Government funds are limited and farmers still need external support. The problem is that PKPI
has just started while JIWMP is about to finish. Therefore, it is required that the program to be continued
for its sustainability. Sustainability of PKPI results depends also on the preparedness of district authorities
to turn over the systems to the WUAF and to continue providing assistance and coordinated support.
These continuity requirements will be fulfilled through WISMP 1.

15.      While JIWMP's sustainability was questionable because commitment of district and provincial
government was sometimes poor in the period 1999-2002 and project-oriented activities are still very
dominant. In particular, the Pokja (task force) in many districts do not understand policy reform well but
this has greatly strengthened from 2001 with their transformation into Kabupaten Irrigation Commissions
as required by PP 77/01, preparation of kabupaten Perda for PKPI and reorganization of their irrigation
agencies as a prelude to WISMP 1 and a parallel ADB-supported Participatory Irrigation Sector Project
(PISP) for many former JIWMP kabupaten on Java. Thus, institutional strengthening will be continued,
including an awareness campaign for the bureaucrats. Training and socialization, as well as coordination
among stakeholders will be improved under WISMP 1 and PISP along the lines set out by JIWMP.

16.      JIWMP has been able to develop both the irrigation network and WUAF to perform better.
However, to move towards sustainability, support is still needed to stimulate farmers' contributions for
O&M. It is impossible to make sustainability in funding the full responsibility of farmers, especially for
expensive rehabilitation works. However, from FY 2003, assistance for small repairs is being provided
and from FY 2004, the Kabupaten Irrigation Improvement Facility (piloted in Mojokerto and Jombang in
East Java) will be operational under WISMP 1 and PISP with Kabupaten Irrigation Commission
management for this purpose and based on small matching contributions from WUAFs.

World Bank's Role and Supervision

17.      The Bank performance is good, as the Bank has been willing to support policy reform and
process-oriented programs, and not project/construction-oriented programs. The orientation of the Bank
has been shifted in favour of the people. Involvement of farmers in the Banks' program is very good but
support for the involvement of farmers needs to be intensified.

18.      The role of the Bank and it supervision team was very good in supporting and monitoring program
implementation, ensuring that it was in accordance with the rules and regulations. Bank and supervision
teams were very good in motivating institutions concerned to work better. For example, almost all Balai
PSDA were invited to present their progress, followed by field visit. It motivated the Balai PSDA to
perform better because it involves a third-party in monitoring the activities.               Moreover, the
recommendations documented in Aide Memoirs provided a very good basis for follow-up activities.


                                                     - 45 -

19.      Sometimes the supervision team is also perceived to be not serious in field visits, which normally
are being `engineered' and very ceremonial. It is suggested that Donor should conduct intensive monitoring
and evaluation, not merely in a few days, and not relying on reports. The Supervision team must be
interdisciplinary, not comprising just engineers and economists.

20.      Supervision is meaningful only for project managers and consultants because it is very much
concentrated on the TOR, without deep understanding of process. Bank's supervision on the transparency
and accountability is not very meaningful. The Supervision team should have conducted periodic public
consultation, not just at the completion of the program. Recommendations through Aide Memoire were
often late. There were delays in implementation due to delays in counterpart and matching funds from the
provincial and the district governments.

21.      An effective monitoring and evaluation model needs to be created. Socialization of legislative and
executive bodies is extremely important for this case.

22.      Bank's role is still concentrated on loan provision, without being accompanied by the necessary
technical assistance in guiding the project. However its role in stimulating inter-sectoral integration and
inter-agency level reciprocal processes, as well as in participatory-based policy formulation, is poor. Its
role in people empowerment is fair.

23.      Support of the Bank is still required for ensuring sustainability of water resources. Bank has to be
selective in providing the loan. Loan should not be discussed at the top level only. Real needs of people at
the grass -root level need to be intensively taken into account.

Commitment of the Government to Efficient and Sustainable O&M

24.      Government commitment on O&M is there but still very low. Funds allocated for O&M are too
small as compared to the need. Consequently, the majority of infrastructure is in very bad condition. Only
few of them are still good and well functioning. It is very hard for WUA to manage such irrigation
facilities, especially based on the fact that WUA has just started to participate.

25.      Government should start the search for new approaches that are acceptable to all stakeholders in
O&M, while the financing mechanism needs to be improved. Strong commitment of the government would
only be measured by good implementation of PP 77/2001.

26.      District government commitment varies from district to district. Anyhow, fund availability is not
enough to finance major rehabilitation works. At the district level, Pokja (task force) should be changed to
Irrigation Committee, and WUAF and informal village leaders be invited join as members.

Effectiveness of PKPI in the Future Irrigation Development

27.      PKPI is good and will be much better than the previous approach if the concept and objectives of
PKPI are implemented in a participatory, transparently, accountable and democratic manner. It is very
effective for: (i) empowering the community which will be responsible for sustainability of irrigation
development, (ii) decreasing the dominance of bureaucrats, and (iii) accommodating local aspirations in the
local-based irrigation development. Therefore, a strong government commitment is required.

28.      However, the following improvement at district level is needed: socialization and understanding of
PKPI must be intensified, periodic coordination with provincial government effected, turn-over of personnel
avoided, and, resistance of central government in supporting PKPI eliminated.



                                                     - 46 -

29.     Successful implementation of PKPI also requires involvement of WUAF in planning, design,
contract bidding and supervision, construction and ultimately O&M. Participation of farmers in fact
depends on how transparent, accountable and democratic the processes carried out are.              KKN still
represents a serious problem. But to be more effective, PKPI must be strengthened by focusing on
micro-economic development aspects to enable PKPI to achieve its objectives. It will be better if it is
supported by other sectors. PKPI socialization needs to be continuously conducted to local bureaucrats for
better support. The active involvement of local councils (DPRD) would enhance the effectiveness of PKPI
implementation considerably. Involvement of NGO in M&E is very important. Also the involvement of
NGOs and Universities in planning and programming of the PKPI activities should be enhanced.

30.     There is a significant participation of farmers and WUAs in the PKPI process. This participation
needs to be intensified as this social involvement has just started. The participation is in the form of
finance, material and labour, with the last being the most significant. Participation in construction resulted
in better quality of construction.       The level of participation very much depends on transparency,
accountability and democracy. Participation of relevant institutions from village to district levels is still
very poor. Achievement is still limited because it has just started. However, process achievement is good.
Support of local Dinas (departments) is necessary. In case of a well-performing, fully turned-over scheme,
the support of Dinas and the Community Organizer could be reduced.

31.     The PKPI program provided many new opportunities. Water has been better distributed with
better efficiency.    Production has been enhanced and economic opportunities are being created.
Participation has created the opportunity for farmers to be the subject, not object, of development. WUAFs
get alternative employment opportunities which to some extent will make their capacity for O&M better.
The capacity of farmers in development participation is improved, especially in connection with irrigation
matters.

32.     For this irrigation reform to be effective, more time, patience and wisdom are crucial.

Achievement of JIWMP Objectives

33.     JIWMP programs have been formulated well, but implementation of the program is often very
inappropriate. The implementation was often being disturbed by political instability. JIWMP has not
touched overall process of the activities yet. As of now, project reached only the output (outcome, benefit
and impact are still being awaited). Physical targets of SAR have been attained. However, ultimate
objectives in the form of income and sustainability have not been achieved yet. The score of achievement
of the objectives is about 75 percent, with the main objective (income improvement) considered to not be
met. The objectives might be criticized as over-idealistic. Therefore, follow-up activities for PKPI are
requested. It is unrealistic to stop the program that has just been introduced.

34.     BWRM component is a good start but its socialization is still poor. For the pilot Balai PSDA,
JIWMP objectives are achievable, but for other Balai PSDA, a learning process is needed to improve their
capacity. It is suggested that BWRM and Hydrology components should be continued.

35.     In terms of irrigation management, programs before PKPI was issued were not good. Those after
PKPI issuance are better and relevant to the changing governance scenario. PKPI has just been introduced
and due to this reason consistent commitment to PKPI is needed. To improve WUA performance, capacity
building and external support are still required. Stakeholders must be involved since the early stage of
program formulation. Local governments have to improve their commitment.




                                                     - 47 -

Additional Annex 10. Improved Accountability & Performance in Irrigation Works
Delivery


Improved Accountability and Performance in Irrigation Works Delivery through Participatory
Arrangements - Lessons from a Technical Audit of Works in Central, East and West Java Provinces

Background and Objective

1.      Under the JIWMP, the Federations of Water User Associations of irrigator-farmers (WUAF ­
Gabungan Perkumpulan Petani Pemakai Air GP3A) were established and empowered at the secondary
irrigation canal level.   They comprise 1,500-4,000 farmer members.         The empowerment implies: (a)
legalization/incorporation of the association (which was not allowed by the government until 1998); (b) a
licence to collect, retain and manage fees for the system maintenance (hitherto such fees could only be
collected by the local tax collector); and (c) formal transfer of the O&M authority and responsibility for the
secondary and tertiary canal system.        This empowerment intends to increase the farmers' sense of
ownership over the irrigation infrastructure, and to get them strategically and financially committed to
improved management of both the water itself and of the infrastructure. This approach was introduced in
1998 but only became well under way since 2000.

2.     Such a program typically is implemented by involvement of the WUAF through the participatory
approach, in the process of irrigation system rehabilitation starting from participatory design and leading
into O&M which normally would be undertaken by the WUAF. Central Java, and East Java, in addition
introduced    this   participatory    approach    late   2000     into the  tendering    process    for    the
construction/rehabilitation contracts, the construction supervision and in the final handing-over of
completed works from the contractor to the owner (district government).

3.   In 2000, participatory construction was introduced. Participatory construction followed three models:
(a) the contractor sub-contracts a portion of his package to the WUAF, normally 10-15 percent of contract
value; (b) the WUAF representatives are involved in the tendering process and in the final handing over of
completed works; and (c) the construction package is contracted directly to the WUAF, based on unit prices
and a negotiated contract. There is also a variant in (b) in that the WUAF representatives are formally
requested by the project management to participate in the construction supervision as well. In 2001 in
Central Java, for example, small-to medium size contracts (around US$4,000) for a total value of Rp
1,894 million (approximately US$190,000) were assigned directly to the WUAFs. In that year, a total
contract value of Rp 7,939 million (approximately US$800,000) was awarded to contractors after
tendering, in packages averaging US$40,000, of which some 10 percent was executed in a participatory
way. In other places, such as Kabupaten Cianjur, West Java, the packages were larger. In one Cianjur
scheme in 2001 the Gabungan was awarded three packages each of US$20,000, which were all completed
before November 2001.

4.   This survey aimed at deriving lessons from the participatory construction experience in terms of cost
and quality of works, and satisfaction of the end users. The original hypothesis was that works would be of
higher quality when executed by contractors under contracts that had been awarded by tender committees
on which the WUAF had a seat. The underlying assumption is that such participatory arrangement
increases transparency and accountability, and lowers the risk of collusion.




                                                     - 48 -

Survey Method

5.   A representative number of works under 16 "contract packages" in about 20 irrigation schemes in nine
districts were sampled in June and July 2002. The sample reflected the participatory approach (which was
started in 2000 and became important in 2001), the non-participatory contract awarding (which was still
implemented after 1999), as well as the "traditional" non-participatory contract awarding of up to 1999.
The sample covered some 10 percent of the total awards in each province under the project in 2001. The
survey was based on in-depth interviews with WUAF, contractors, and project staff, including the project
manager, tender committee, and site supervisor. Contract documents, including those relating to the
procurement process of the selected sites, were reviewed to compare the cost and transparency of
procurement process. Site observations were conducted to assess the quality of the product.

Cost and Quality Comparison Between The Participatory and Non-Participatory Construction

6.   Cost. The major items in most contracts are fairly comparable stone-masonry works for canal lining
and rehabilitation of weirs. The unit prices that could be compared easily concerned mainly the cost of the
stone-masonry, with a specification of 1:4 Portland cement and sand. Variation of the unit prices was
caused mainly by the difference in local labour costs, the distance over which materials needed to be hauled,
and the degree of field difficulties. There is no systematic distinction between the unit prices in the
participatory and the non-participatory contracts in 2001. However, the cost saving in the participatory
construction model (c) and in the sub-contracted packages is systematic and significant. The WUAF, in
general, could exceed the originally agreed work volume by 10 to 20 percent for the same price.
Nonetheless, the WUAF reported that they could in addition keep some of the savings from the contract
payment, which they then spent on maintenance in the system.

7.   Works Quality/Sustainability. The survey concluded that the quality in participatory construction is
marginally better than in non-participatory construction in 2001, but is significantly better when executed
completely by the WUAF. However, the quality of all works was systematically better in 2001 than in
2000, and even more so when compared to works executed in 1998-1999.

8.    Other Aspects. The involvement of WUAF in the participatory construction clearly supported the
acceleration and timely delivery of works in the field. This related to many factors, such as: (a) effective
socialization of the project with the community prior to construction; (b) smoother provision of labor; and
(c) acceptance by the local community to use the village roads for transport of material and dewater the
canal for construction. The interviewed contractors confirmed their satisfaction. The contractors reported
that social control of their performance has increased greatly since 2001.

9.     The satisfaction of the neighboring communities also was found to have increased, because of
increased confidence in the transparent procurement process, the possibility for formal and informal site
supervision, and the acceptance of the contractors' works. This was reported to give a positive impact on
the communities' participation in the system management, especially in O&M.

Conclusions

10.   The positive impacts of the WUAF involvement in participatory construction are: (a) the creation of a
more transparent environment enhancing accountability; (b) better quality of works; (c) more volume of
works completed for the same cost; and (d) improvement of WUAF's finance for O&M. It could not be
concluded that WUAF involvement in the tender process and in the construction supervision, by itself, has a


                                                    - 49 -

significant direct impact on the performance of the contractor. The quality of all works from 2001 onward
had improved compared to 2000 and before. Contractors, WUAFs and local project officers reported that
this was the result of a sharply increased social control over the contractor by the WUAFs since late 2000.
Thus, WUAF participation in the tender process had become only one practical way to improve
accountability and performance.

11.   Where contracts were directly assigned to WUAFs, systematically better quality was observed in the
field. Moreover, the volume of works that could be completed by the WUAFs exceeded by 10 to 20 percent
the volume originally agreed in the contract. Furthermore, the direct assignment of contracts to WUAFs
has been shown to improve their sense of ownership over the irrigation infrastructure and to improve their
technical and administration skills. This, in turn, boosted their willingness and capacity to conduct proper
O&M after construction is completed. The economic lifetime of the infrastructure is possibly 2-3 times
longer, increasing markedly the reliability of the supply of irrigation water and reducing the rehabilitation
costs in the future.




                                                    - 50 -

- 51 -

