Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3762 IND
                              Loan Agreement
                       (Java Irrigation Improvement
                    Water Resources Management Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated July 25, 1994
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3762 IND
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated July 25, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
    WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph
(l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
    "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
          any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
          inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
          3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
    (a) "Bupati" means the head of an administrative district (kabupaten);
    (b) "DGWRD" means the Directorate General of Water Resources Development
in the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works;
    (c) "Efficient Operation and Maintenance" means routine operation and
maintenance activities carried out on an irrigation system so as to provide
the expected service to water users and to maintain such irrigation system
in sustainable working condition;
    (d) "Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing
April 1 and ending March 31;
    (e) "Project Area" means the Borrower's provinces of Central Java, East
Java, West Java, and D.I Yogyakarta;
    (f) "Provincial Water Resources Services" or "PWRS" means such Services
as established within the Borrower's provincial governments in the Project
Area;
    (g) "Real-time Basin Water Resources Management" means the monitoring
and management of the flow conditions within a river basin at hourly
intervals for flood flows and at daily or weekly intervals for water
operations;
    (h) "Rp" and "Rupiah" means the Borrower's currency;
    (i) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement;
    (j)   "Special Maintenance" means those deferred maintenance needs that
have accumulated in a system that had been fully rehabilitated or
constructed and that otherwise contains the essential structures required
in the systems; and
    (k)   "Basin Water Operations Unit" means such unit as established for
a river basin and administratively responsible to the relevant PWRS.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred
sixty five million seven hundred thousand dollars ($165,700,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Page  3
Indonesia or in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at
the rate of three-fourths of one  percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                in which this Agreement is signed.
          (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the
                Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest
                rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
                (a) of this Section.
          (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
          amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
          at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
          one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
          pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
          the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
          during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
          the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
                "(c)   (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing
          on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Page  4
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering, environmental and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                of this Section including those for the Special Account for
                each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                not later than nine months after the end of each such year,
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                requested; and
          (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
                shall from time to time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
                the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
                withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the
                Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                such expenditures;
          (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;
                and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
Page  5
                annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
                preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
                withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
    Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          c/o Directorate General of Budget
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P. O. Box 2458
          Jakarta 10710, Indonesia
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                FINMINISTRY                    45799 DJMLN-IA
                Jakarta                        44319 DEPKEU-IA
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.               82987 (FTCC)
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                               197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                       By  /s/  Arifin M. Siregar
                                                Authorized Representative
Page  6
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By  /s/  Marianne Haug
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                   East Asia and Pacific
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                    Dollar              to be
          Category                Equivalent)         Financed
(1)       Civil works:                                60%
          (a) Part C of             17,300,000
              the Project
          (b) Part D.1              79,300,000
              (except deferred
              schemes),
              D.2 and D.3 of
              the Project
          (c) Deferred schemes       4,200,000
              under Part D.1
              of the Project
          (d) Part D.4 of            4,900,000
              the Project
(2)       Equipment and              8,200,000        100% of foreign
          materials (except                           expenditures,
          vehicles)                                   100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory
                                                      cost) and 65%
                                                      of local
                                                      expenditures for
                                                      other items
                                                      procured locally
(3)       Incremental                                  80%
          operating
          expenditures
          and training:
          (a) Part A of             10,700,000
              the Project
          (b) Parts B, C,            3,600,000
              E and F of
              the Project
(4)       Consultants'              15,900,000         80%
          services
(5)       Engineering                9,600,000         100%
Page  7
          services
          for PWRS
(6)       Unallocated               12,000,000
                                   ___________
          TOTAL                    165,700,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower;
    (c)   the term " deferred schemes" means the following irrigation
schemes in the Project Area: Rawa Jabung and Waduk Gondang in East Java
Province and Lewigoong in West Java Province; and
    (d)   the term "incremental operating expenditures" means expenditures
for real-time operation and maintenance of basin water management systems.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
    (b)   payments made for expenditures in respect of Category 1 (c), until
the Bank has received an environmental analysis and economic justification,
satisfactory to the Bank, for each of the deferred schemes, including, if
necessary, a resettlement plan as set forth in paragraph 12 of Schedule 5
to this Agreement; and
    (c)   payments made for expenditures in respect of Category 1 (d), until
the Bank has received (i) cost estimates and design, acceptable to the Bank,
for the remedial works, and (ii) evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, of
adequate availability of water supply based on actual measurements of the
Lusi river flows.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for
works not exceeding $ 500,000 equivalent, contracts for goods not exceeding
$200,000 equivalent, contracts for employment of consulting firms not
exceeding $100,000, and contracts for employment of individual consultants
not exceeding $50,000, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to (i) establish comprehensive and
decentralized integrated basin water resources management in selected river
basins in the provinces of Central Java, East Java, West Java, and D.I.
Yogyakarta; (ii) rehabilitate, provide special maintenance, and improve
sustainability of, irrigation schemes in such provinces; and (iii) transfer
operation and maintenance of small irrigation schemes in such provinces to
water users associations.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
PART A: River Basin Water Resources Management
1.  Preparation of long-term basin water resources plans in the following
Page  8
river basins: Citarum in West Java, Cidurian/Ciujung in West Java, and
Jratunseluna/Garang in Central Java.
2.  Carrying out of public awareness activities of river basin planning and
management activities, including water pollution and conservation issues,
in the following river basins: Citarum in West Java, Cidurian/Ciujung in
West Java, and Jratunseluna/Garang in Central Java.
3.  Establishment of institutional arrangements, including procedures and
guidelines, to enhance real-time basin water resources management in the
following river basins: Jratunseluna/Garang in Central Java,
Cidurian/Ciujung in West Java, Sampean in East Java, Cisanggarung in West
and Central Java, and Progo-Opak-Oyo in D. I. Yogyakarta and Central Java.
4.  Establishment of appropriate procedures and institutional arrangements
for the allocation and management, by provincial governments, of water
resources in selected basins in the Project Area.
5.  Establishment of procedures and guidelines for water service fees in
selected basins in the Project Area and introduction of such fees in at
least three basins in the Project Area.
6.  Establishment of a pilot river infrastructure and facilities maintenance
program in the Cisanggarung and Jratunseluna/Garang basins.
7.  Carrying out of sediment and erosion control measures around river
channels and water works in the Project Area through the introduction of
hedge row vegetation technology.
8.  Improvement of flood forecasting and water monitoring system in basins
selected for real-time water resources management in the Project Area,
including provision of equipment and training.
9.  Provision of technical assistance for river basin planning and real-time
water resources management; training for staff of DGWRD, Provincial Water
Resources Services, and Basin Water Operations Units; and provision of
equipment.
PART B: Hydrology
    Strengthening of the hydrological units of the Provincial Water
Resources Services in the Project Area through:
    (a)   upgrading of the hydrological network for operational purposes;
    (b)   provision of related hydrological and meteorological metering and
communications equipment, and computer hardware and software, for collecting
and processing hydrological and meteorological data; and
    (c)   provision of equipment, vehicles, staff training and technical
assistance.
PART C: Transfer of Operation and Maintenance of Small
        Irrigation Schemes to Water Users Associations
1.  Preparation and completion of designs and carrying out of Special
Maintenance on about 356,000 hectares of public irrigation systems of less
than 500 hectares each in the Project Area, before transferring the
operation and maintenance of such systems to water users associations.
2.  Preparation of designs for special maintenance on about 80,000
additional hectares of public irrigation systems of less than 500 hectares
each in the Project Area.
3.  Provision of engineering services for special maintenance, provision of
technical assistance for the establishment and strengthening of water users
associations, and provision of related training.
PART D: Irrigation Development
1.  Rehabilitation and upgrading of about 202,000 hectares of medium-sized
(500 to 3,000 hectares) public irrigation systems.
2.  Carrying out of works for the expansion, by about 15,500 hectares, of
Page  9
existing medium-sized public irrigation systems.
3.  Construction of the proposed Cibareno irrigation scheme on about 600
hectares in the District of Banten in West Java.
4.  Carrying out of remedial works on about 9,300 hectares of the Dumpil
irrigation system in Central Java, and provision of technical assistance for
construction supervision.
5.  Provision of technical assistance and engineering services for planning,
design and construction supervision of the works referred to in paragraphs
1 through 3 above.
PART E: Efficient Operation and Maintenance
    Provision of Efficient Operation and Maintenance on about 776,000
hectares of public irrigation systems in the Project Area, and provision of
related training and equipment.
PART F: Irrigation Service Fees
    Establishment of a program of direct cost recovery for operation and
maintenance from irrigation beneficiaries on public irrigation schemes on
about 1,200,000 hectares in the Project Area, and provision of related
technical assistance.
PART G: Quality Assurance and Technical Audits
1.  Strengthening of the Quality Assurance Office in DGWRD, including
provision of technical assistance.
2.  Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of technical
audits of Project activities under Parts C, D, E and F of the Project.
PART H: Project Coordination
    Provision of technical assistance to DGWRD for Project coordination,
implementation and monitoring.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
February 15, 2000                              3,140,000
August 15, 2000                                3,255,000
February 15, 2001                              3,370,000
August 15, 2001                                3,495,000
February 15, 2002                              3,620,000
August 15, 2002                                3,755,000
February 15, 2003                              3,890,000
August 15, 2003                                4,030,000
February 15, 2004                              4,175,000
August 15, 2004                                4,330,000
February 15, 2005                              4,485,000
August 15, 2005                                4,650,000
February 15, 2006                              4,820,000
August 15, 2006                                4,995,000
February 15, 2007                              5,175,000
August 15, 2007                                5,365,000
February 15, 2008                              5,560,000
August 15, 2008                                5,760,000
February 15, 2009                              5,970,000
August 15, 2009                                6,185,000
February 15, 2010                              6,410,000
August 15, 2010                                6,645,000
February 15, 2011                              6,885,000
Page  10
August 15, 2011                                7,135,000
February 15, 2012                              7,395,000
August 15, 2012                                7,665,000
February 15, 2013                              7,945,000
August 15, 2013                                8,230,000
February 15, 2014                              8,530,000
August 15, 2014                                8,835,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment             Premium
                                   The interest rate
                                   (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan
                                   on the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                  0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not               0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
More than 16 years but not               0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
Page  11
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to
be necessary for the purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $200,000.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Preference for Domestic Contractors
    In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to
domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part D: Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Except as provided in paragraph 2 below, contracts for civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or less per contract may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works under Part D.4 of
the Project shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more.
3.  Civil works for efficient operation and maintenance and special
maintenance may be carried out by force account.
4.  Equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or
less per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $900,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part E: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost
more than the equivalent of $500,000, and each contract for goods estimated
to cost more than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Page  12
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to (i) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (ii) single source selection of consulting
firms, (iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank, (iv) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (v)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individuals raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, maintain the
Project Coordination Unit within DGWRD with terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank, and qualified staff in adequate numbers, including a Project
coordinator who shall be the head of the Unit and shall report to the
Director of the Directorate of Planning and Programming in DGWRD.
2.  In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the
following units and committees to be established in the Project Area not
later than November 1, 1994:
    (a)   basin water management committees or similar committees, comprised
of members appointed by the relevant provincial governors and Bupatis, and
responsible for implementing the provincial policies and guidelines of the
PWRS in allocating the basin's waters; and
    (b)   Basin Water Operations Units, with experienced staff, and
responsible, inter alia, for water operations and distribution to service
areas in the basin.
3.  In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall carry out
basin water resources management in accordance with the Borrower's Position
Paper on Integrated Water Resources Management, dated December 1993,
Strategy Paper on Integrated Water Resources Management, dated May 16, 1994,
and the Detailed Inter-Agency Action Plan agreed with the Bank.
4.  In carrying out Parts B, C, D, and E of the Project, the Borrower shall
cause the PWRS' in the Project Area to carry out the functions of Project
management and Project implementation in the relevant province with
qualified staff in adequate numbers.
Page  13
5.  In carrying out Special Maintenance under Part C.1 of the Project, the
Borrower shall:
    (a)   ensure that the average annual cost of Special Maintenance
financed under the Project does not exceed the average cost limitation
agreed with the Bank;
    (b)   prepare, and furnish to the Bank for approval, additional economic
and design justifications of Special Maintenance of irrigation schemes where
the estimated cost of the Special Maintenance exceeds the review threshold
agreed with the Bank; and
    (c)   carry out Special Maintenance only on irrigation schemes where the
Borrower has obtained assurances from the relevant water users association
that, upon completion of the Special Maintenance, such water user
association will assume the responsibility of the operation and maintenance
of such scheme.
6.  In carrying out rehabilitation and expansion activities under Part D of
the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that:
    (a)   selected schemes have a dependable irrigation water supply;
    (b)   where the estimated cost of rehabilitation exceeds the review
threshold agreed with the Bank, the economic rate of return for such
selected schemes shall be acceptable to the Bank;
    (c)   the relevant provincial government has confirmed that the site of
the selected schemes will not be converted to a non-agricultural use for a
period of at least ten years after completion of the rehabilitation and
expansion works;
    (d)   the beneficiaries shall participate in water users associations;
the water users associations have agreed to have the relevant schemes
rehabilitated; and procedures have been established for irrigation service
fee collection; and
    (e)   rehabilitated, expanded and new schemes shall be provided with
Efficient Operation and Maintenance.
7.  In carrying out Part F of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the
Directorate General for Public Administration and Regional Autonomy in its
Ministry of Home Affairs to include the areas to be selected for the
introduction of the irrigation service fee in each annual work program to
be prepared in accordance with paragraph 10 of this Schedule.
8.  The Borrower shall, not later than January 15, 1995, employ consultants,
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, provided,
however, that consultants to be employed for purposes of Part F of the
Project, shall be employed not later than April 30, 1995.
9.  The Borrower shall provide the vehicles required for the Project in
accordance with a schedule and a time-table acceptable to the Bank.
10.       The Borrower shall:
    (a)   not later than September 30 in each year, commencing November 30,
1994, and until completion of the Project, prepare and furnish to the Bank
for comments a work program and cost estimates of Project activities to be
carried out during the following Fiscal Year; and, thereafter, carry out
such work program taking into account the comments of the Bank thereon;
    (b)   not later than December 31 in each year, commencing December 31,
1994, prepare and furnish to the Bank for comments the budget proposals for
the following Fiscal Year's work program, based on the cost estimates for
such work program; and, thereafter promptly finalize said budget taking into
account the Bank's comments thereon; and
    (c)   furnish to the Bank, not later than July 1 in each year,
Page  14
commencing July 1, 1995, and until completion of the Project, evidence,
satisfactory to the Bank, that the Borrower: (i) has made budgetary
allocations for the following Fiscal Year which (A) maintain, in real terms,
financing for nationwide irrigation operation and maintenance at a level at
least equal to the Fiscal Year 1993/1994 level, and (B) provide incremental
funding needed for efficient operation and maintenance; and (ii) has
substantially expended the budgetary allocations for operation and
maintenance referred to in (i) above for the prior Fiscal Year.
11.       In carrying out Part G.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   not later than June 1, 1995, prepare and furnish to the Bank for
comments, the terms of reference and proposed organiza-tional arrangements
for the carrying out of the technical audits of the Project activities under
Parts C, D, E and F of the Project;
    (b)   cause technical audits to be carried out annually, in a manner
acceptable to the Bank, during the implementation of the Project, commencing
not later than April 1, 1996; and
    (c)   annually, commencing not later than October 1, 1996, furnish to
the Bank for comments a copy of such audits.
12.       In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   take measures to avoid or minimize involuntary resettlement of
individuals; and
    (b)   where displacement of individuals is unavoidable, the Borrower
shall, before carrying out the works which would result in such
displacement:
          (i)   prepare a resettlement plan for said individuals in
                accordance with policies, planning principles,
                institutional arrangements and design criteria agreed with
                the Bank, designed to improve the living standards of said
                individuals;
          (ii)  furnish the resettlement plan referred to in sub-paragraph
                (i) hereof to the Bank for approval; and
          (iii) take all measures necessary to ensure that said individuals
                shall be resettled in accordance with the resettlement plan
                approved by the Bank.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$7,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
Page  15
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Accountsuch amount 
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
Page  16
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
