Report No. 367a-UNI                                                                FILE  COPY
Appraisal of
Gombe Agricultural Development Project
Nigeria
September 6, 1974
Agriculture Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENT EQUIVAIENTS
Currency Unit: Naira (N)
US$ 1      - N O.66
N 1      =  Us$ 1.52
N 1      = Kobo (K) 100
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, a3l weights and
measures used in this report are metric:
1 metric (m) ton   - 0.98 long ton
1 long ton         5 1.016 n ton
1 long ton         - 2,240 lb
1 hectare (ha)        2.47 acres (ac)
1 acre (ac)        50.405 ha
1 kilometer (km)      0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS
ABU       I  Ahmadu Bello University
CAP       s  Cotton and Agricultural Processors Ltd.
MIS       s  Extension Research Liaison Service
FDA       s  Federal Department of Agrioulture
FMG       s  Federal Military Government of Nigeria
FMANR     s  Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(3OPMU    s  Gombe Project Management Unit
GLA       2  Gombe Local Authority
IAR       s  Institute of Agricultural Research
ICB       s  International Competitive Bidding
LBA       :  Licensed Buying Agent
MNR       :  Ministry of Natural Resources
MITC      s  Ministry of Industry, Trade and Cooperatives
MOR       s  Ministry of Health
MOW       s  Ministry of Works
NAB       t  Nigerian Agricultural Bank
NES       s  North Eastern State Government
NPMC      :  Nigerian Produce Marketing Company
NSMB      :  Northern States Marketing Board
PID       s  Produce Inspection Division
FNEU      s  Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
TWLA      :  Tangale Waja Local Authority
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
Gombe Agricultural Development Project
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...............      ..............    i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION          .................................... .       1
II.   BACKGROUND ..........................................              1
A.  General .......         .............................    1
B.  Agriculture in Northern Nigeria ............             2
C.  Agricultural Policy .................                    3
III.   PROJECT AREA ........ .................                            4
A.  General .......      ......................              4
B.  Institutions ......        ....................... ..    5
IV.   THE PROJECT       ..........................................       5
A.  Description ......        ..........................     5
B.  Detailed Features ..........................             6
V.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ...........              9
A.  Project Costs   ..............................           9
B.  Proposed Financing ......       ...................    11
C.  Procurement ........       ........................    12
D.  Disbursement ........       .......................    13
E. Budgetary Control Funding Procedures
Accounts and Audit .....       ..................    14
VI.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .........................    15
A.  Organization ......       .........................     15
B.  Staffing ....... ............................    17
C.  Staff Training .....         ........................    18
D. Farm inputs - Procurement and distribution
and Credit Procedures ........... * ........    19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. Grimshaw and Payne (Bank) and Calkin, Glynn, Manning, Singh, Upchurch
and Yates (consultants).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VII.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, FARMERS' BENEFITS
AND FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS TO GOVERNMENT .... ......  21
A.   Yields and Outputs .....         .................  21
B.   Markets and Prices .....         .................  22
C.   Farmers' Benefits .....         ..................  23
D.   Financial Implication to Government ..... 24
VIII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...........       ....  24
IX.   RECOMMENDATIONS ........         ...........................  26



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES:
1.   Farm and Crop Development
Table 1:  Seed cotton purchases by NSMB
Table 2: Groundnut purchases by NSMB
Table 3:  Rank order of monthly rainfall at Gombe ginnery
Table 4:  Rainfall histogram for project area
Table 5:  One hectare cotton budget
Table 6:  One hectare sorghum budget
Table 7:  One hectare maize budget
Table 8:  One hectare groundnut budget
Table 9: One hectare cowpea budget
Table 10: Seed cotton production projections
Table 11: Sorghum          "           "
Table 12: Maize            "           it
Table 13: Groundnut        "           "
Table 14: Cowp'ea          "           "
2.   Project Area, Institutions, and Existing Processing and Marketing
Table 1: Summary of phasing of Project Development Program
3.   Research and Seed Multiplication
Table 1: Cotton seed multiplication
Table 2: Summary of yields of promising maize
varieties and hybrids
Schedule 1: Seed Multiplication Demonstration Farms
4.   Agricultural Roads
Table 1:  Road construction : Output rates
Table 2:   "          "       : Unit plant and Operating Costs
Table 3:  "i                  : Capital costs for plant,
equipment and materials
Table 4:   "                  : Labor and plant operating Costs
Table 5: Road maintenance unit cost
Figure 1: Typical Agricultural Road Cross Section
5.   Water and Soil Conservation
Table 1: Water and soil conservation development costs
6.   Organization, Staff Requirements and Training
Schedule 1:  Organization Organogram
Schedule 2:  Establishment of Project Management Unit
Schedule 3:  Job description and qualifications of Senior
Staff
Table    1:  Staff requirements:  Project Administration
Head Office Unit
Table    2:  Staff reqirements:   Technical services
Table    3:  Staff requirements:  Credit Services
Table    4:  Staff requirements:  Market services
Table    5:  Staff requirements:  Engineering services



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
7.   Farm Inputs
Table    1:  Basic cost assumptions on farm inputs
Table    2:  Seasonal fertilizer requirements
Table    3:  Seasonal requirements for seeds, insecticides
and battery sets
Table    4:  Summary of fertilizer subsidies, seasonal cash
sales and credit requirements
Table    5:  Farm equipment requirements
\N8.   Farm Credit
Table    1:  Illustrative cash flow for subloans
9.   Project Evaluation
Table    1:  Evaluation Unit Costs
10.   Project Costs
Table    1:  Summary of project costs
Table    2:  Vehicles, plant and equipment - Capital cost
Table    3:  Houses, buildings, furnishings and construction
material costs
Table    4:  Staff salaries and allowances
Table    5:  Running costs of vehicles and plant
Table    6:  C4neral Service Costs
11.   Project Financing
Table    1:  Details of project financing
' Table    2:  iliustrative cash flow for NES
Table    3:  Disbursement schedule of Bank loan
12.   Marketing and Prices
Table    1:  Cotton seed requirement
Table    2:  Cotton marketing costs
Table    3:  Seed cotton ginning capacity
Table    4:  Gioundnut marketing costs
Table    5:  Diagram of market layout
Table    6:  Diagram of market layout
Table    7:  Millet and Sorghum prices
Table    8:  Projected supply and demand for selected foodstuffs
Table    9:  Estimated producer prices for maize and sorghum
Table   10:       "         "       "    "  cowpeas
Table   11:            "            "    "  seed cotton
Table   12:                         "    "  groundnuts



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
13. Economic Benefits
- Table    1:  Economic costs and returns
Table    2:  Project Economic benefits
Schedule 1: Returns to farmers using work oxen
Schedule 2: Returns to tractor users
MAPS
1.   Project location
2.   Project area






NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
APPRAISAL OF GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Federal Military Government of Nigeria (FMG) has requested Bank
assistance to finance an agricultural development project in the North Eastern
State of the Federation. The project was identified by a Bank mission in
November 1972, and was subsequently prepared by the Bank in collaboration with
the North Eastern State Authorities. This report is based on the findings of
an appraisal mission that visited Nigeria in September and October 1973.
ii.       Under the present economic circumstances and associated industrial
growth, industry and the urban population are becoming more dependent on the
rural population for assured food and industrial crop supplies, and at the
same time the gap in income earnings between urban and rural communities is
becoming ever wider. The northern States of Nigeria and their rural popula-
tions are the main producers of grain crops for human consumption and of
industrial crops for processing industries, and yet their per capita income
of about US$40 per annum is the lowest in the Federation.
iii.      Except for the extreme northern areas, mu..inly north of 12' latitude,
the soils and climate of the northern States are generally suitable for ex-
tensive annual crop production. Research workers and the more responsive
farmers using improved inputs have adequately shown the response of improved
seeds to economic applications of fertilizers, and the viability of insecti-
cides for pest control purposes. Due to the disruptions caused by the civil
war (1966-68) and its aftermath, the lack of planning resources, and until
recently considerable financial constraints, very little had been done to
improve the production of the smallfarmers. Even now experienced manpower
to plan and implement rational developments in agriculture is in extremely
short supply. The Federal and State Governments recognizing the need to
increase the production from the small farm sector, 70% of the population,
now plan to accelerate the development of agriculture throughout Nigeria.
This project refers to one of three projects in northern Nigeria that the
Federal Military Government of Nigeria (FMG) would develop with the Bank's
assistance.
iv.       The project area (5,LQ00 km2) is centered around Gombe in part of
Bauchi Province of the North Eastern State. The area supports a population
of about 640,000 people (6% of the State's population) including some 58,000
families farming on average 4 ha each. The net annual family income including
the value of produce consumed on the farm is currently about US$330. The
population is expanding, the soils are rapidly declining in fertility, and the
people, are under constant pressure to increase output. As such, conditions
are ripe for project action anc. farmer response is expected to be high.



v.        The project would provide an integrated investment to cover physical
infrastructure, support services and farm inputs; specifically it would:
construct 1,000 km of low cost agricuLtural roads; 85 small earth dams and
160 ponds to provide water supplies to humans and livestock; a project admin-
istrative center at Gombe, 5 development unit centers and 50 farm service
centers; it would develop and equip two seed multiplication farms to produce
improved high yielding seed; and it would expand and create new training
facilities for project staff and fanaers. The project would also provide
better support services in the fornm of a tenfold increase in extension staff,
introduce new credit and marketing services to the farmers; and the associated
staff houses, offices and transport facilities required to support these
services. The project would procure Larm inputs to sell to farmers for cash
or credit. An evaluation unit would be established to evaluate the operations
and benefits of the proposed inlvestment, and feasibility studies would be
undertaken for the preparation of similar projects to be located in other
states.
vi.       The project would be managed by a special Management Unit responsi-
ble to an Executive Committee, both to be established under a gazetted order
of the North East State Executive Council. The committee would be chaired
by the Permanent Secretary of the State's Ministry of Natural Resources. The
Management Unit would be suitably staffed through transfer of existing Govern-
ment staff or personnel presently under training. Deficiencies in specialized
technical skills and high level management staff, unavailable in Nigeria, would
be made up through international recruitment.
vii.      The proposed Bank Loan of US$21 million would be made to the
Federal Government of Nigeria for a trerm of 20 years, including a five-year
grace period.  The loan would be 50% of total project costs, estimated at
US$42.1 million and would cover all the foreign costs estimated at US$20.2
million and 4%; of local costs equivalent to US$0.8 million. Of the US$21
million Bank loan, US$20.6 million would be onlent to the North Eastern
State Government (NES), and the remaining US $0.4 million would be retained
by FMG to finance the preparation of agricultural feasibility studies. NES
would provide US$19.3 million or 46% of total project costs for project
investment and operating costs. The remaining project costs estimated at
US$1.8 million, or 4%, would be contributed by participating farmers in the
form of cash payments for seasonal inputs and down payments on farm equipment.
viii.     Procurement of ve.licies, plaat equipment, fertilizers, insecticides,
farm tractors and implements, having a value of more than US$25,000 would be
through international competic.ve btdd'ing (ICB), and would have an estimated
value of US$13.2 million.  Contracts for civil works such as houses, offices
and warehouses valued at USS6.1 million would not be suitable for ICB, due
to the dispersed locations and slai.l size of indIvidual contracts, and would
be awarded under locally advertised comipetitive bidding. Foreign firms and
suppliers who are well represen,ed in Nigeria would not be precluded, but
bonafide domestic contractors would receive a 7-1/2% preference in bid evalua-
tion.  Construction of roads, water supplies and soil conservation works
estimated at US$6.7 millior -,2ruld` be carried out on force account due to the
shortage of suitable medi-um .ca e contractors who normally would undertake
this work, however, petty conc'ractors would be employed to the maximum extent



- iii -
feasible. A large part of project costs, an estimated US$12.3 million, would
be for labor, staff salaries and allowances, vehicle maintenance and operation,
general services, project evaluation, and preparation of feasibility studies
and as such would be unsuitable for competitive bidding. Internationally re-
cruited staff would be employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank.
ix.       Proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed to cover:  (a) 100% of
the CIF costs of directly imported vehicles, tractors, heavy plant and
equipment, or 75% of the cost of these items if locally procured - US$2.1
million; (b) 100% of the CIF costs of directly imported farm tractors and
equipment, ox drawn equipment, spraying machines, fertilizers, insecticides,
battery sets and seeds, or 71% of these items if procured locally - US$4.1
million; (c) 100% of the cost of expatriate staff - US$1.5 million; (d) 60%
of the cost of buildings, houses, furnishings, and construction materials
and labor for roads, dams and soil conservation works - US$3.7 million; (e)
60% of local staff costs - US$3.2 million; (f) 60% of the cost of the field
evaluation unit - US$0.5 million; (g) 100% of cost of consultant services
to prepare feasibility studies - US$0.3 million; and (h) US$5.6 million to
cover unallocated expenses. Disbursements of the Bank loan would be against
import documentation, contracts and certified records of expenditure, the
latter would be scrutinized from time to time by the Bank during supervision
missions.
x.        The principal direct benefits would, through the output of 32,000
project farmers, be from project year 5 the annual incremental production
of 21,000 tons of seed cotton (97,000 bales of lint), 6,000 tons of groundnuts,
8,000 tons of sorghum, 35,000 tons of maize, and 1,000 tons of cowpeas;
the project would indirectly benefit a further 26,000 farm families through
provision of better communications, water supplies and markets. Including
the non-farming population, some 640,000 people would one way or other receive
some benefit from the project, not least the project would provide additional
employment - equivalent to 12,000 manyears per annum. Intangible benefits
would include the provision of a basic infrastructure on which health and
other social services could be developed, expansion of local trade to the
non-farming population, and the strengthening of institutions including the
Local Authorities, and the State Ministry of Natural Resources. The project
established evaluation unit would provide considerable information to support
the future planning of Federal and State agricultural policies. The project
would train Nigerian staff in management and technical aspects applicable to
rural development. The economic rate of return is 17%, a 10% reduction in
commodity prices would reduce the rate of return to 9% and the project would
still be viable (10% rate of return) if production targets were reduced to
70% of those projected. The net farm income for farmers directly affected by
the project would increase frorz US$330 to US$480 per annum at full development,
and the net per capita income of the total farming population would rise from
US$41 to US$60 inferring an annual income growth rate of 8% per annum, corpat&Ct
to the present no growth situation, and is achievable provided that the physical
inputs and management needs are provided.
xi.       On the basis of the assurances that were obtained during negotiaLions,
and set out in Chapter IX, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$21
million.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises a loan application made to the Bank by the
Federal Military Government of Nigeria (FMG). The purpose of the loan would
be to assist Nigeria's North Eastern State Government (NES) to finance an agri-
cultural development program involving 58,000 small farmers in the Gombe
Division of Bauchi Province. The project would involve the construction of
vital crop extraction roads and water supplies, and would provide farmers
with the technical, marketing, and credit services, and inputs needed to
insure significant increases in production and farmer incomes. Currently,
the latter are low, about US$330 per family, or US$41 per capita.
1.02      The project is deliberately large; this is essential in order to
make a meaningful impact in such a large and populous country. The risks
that do exist are minimized provided competent management is available,
because the technical innovations proposed have been proven, the farmers
are hardworking, and the production induced by the project is in high demand
on domestic and export markets. The project concept could be applied through-
out most of northern Nigeria. One important role of the project would provide
a practical training ground for Nigerian staff in the technical and admin-
istrative management of projects of this type.
1.03      The project is within the frame of policies outlined in Nigeria's
"Perspective Plan for Agricultural Development to 1985." In particular,
it follows FMG policies to increase production of both food and industrial
crops to supply Nigeria's rapidly increasing urban populations and industries
including intensive livestock production enterprises, particularly in the
southern States. The project would assist to develop sound agricultural
credit systems tailored to provide credit to large numbers of small farmers.
It would provide also a much needed base for the expansion and improvement
of health and other social services currently planned by the State Government;
the project road development program would be a vital first phase to facilitate
the improvement of these social services.
1.04      This report refers to similar projects at Gusau (NW State) and
Funtua (NC State). These projects were appraised concurrently and are similar
in nature; while administratively totally separate, they have common production
policies, techniques and services. The three projects represent a first, but
very substantial, step by the Federal and State Governments to increase the
production and raise the living standards of large numbers of peoples in the
relatively less developed and environmentally harsh northern States.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The 12-State Federal Republic of Nigeria has a total area of about
914,000 sq km, and in 1971, a population estimated at 68 million. About 35%
of GDP estimated at US$9.1 billion in 1972/3, is generated in the agricul-
ture sector, which employs 70% of the labor force. In 1972/3, total domestic



-2-
exports amounted to US$2.1 billion, of which petroleum represented about
82% (US$1.8 billion). The main agricultural exports are cocoa, groundnuts,
and groundnut oil and cake. Oil palm products used to be exported, but with
increasing domestic consumption and a general decline in the industry, palm
oil is no longer exported, and palm kernel exports are dwindling. Cotton,
once a major export, is now fully utilized by the local milling industry and
local supply cannot meet demand. By and large, Nigeria is self-sufficient
in food; food imports are estimated at US$2.6 per capita.
2.02      Nigeria can be divided into three major agricu:Ltural and ecological
zones (see map): a southern wet forest zone, south of the confluence of
the Benue and Niger Rivers, mainly growing perennial tree crops, including
cocoa, oil palm and rubber; a central dry forest zone known as the middle
belt which is underpopulated and tsetse infested, but has a high potential
for annual food crops and livestock; and a northern zone, covering about 50%
of the country, with a tree savannah ecology, and which supports Nigeria's
cattle population, and produces its main cereal crops, and groundnut:s and
cotton.
B. Agriculture in Northern Nigeria
2.03      North Eastern State is one of four States in northern Nigeria
which have very similar agricultural and ecological systems. The four have
also a closely associated history of institutional development and agricul-
tural policies, as prior to '968, the whole region, including two other
States, was administered as one from a regional capital at Kaduna.  Thus,
a description of the North Eastern State, its policies and problems, would
apply closely to the situation in North Western, North Central and Kano
States.
2.04      North Eastern State, with a population of about 10 million, liIs
between latitudes 7-13' north and 9-14° east; comprises about 270,000 km
and is the largest state in the Federation. Within the State there is
considerable climatic variation, and rainfall varies from 1,500 mm in its
south to less than 750 mm on the border with Niger. Much of the State has
an assured monomodal rainfall (4-5 months) of at least 750 mm per annum;
although the distribution within the total is sometimes erratic, leading to
"drought" years such as occurre-d in 1973.  Most of the State has a tree
savannah ecology, and in those areas of higher tree densities, the incidence
of tsetse is high and trypanosona&-asil is a constraint to livestock production,
as well as being a human health -probiem.  The proposed project which would be
centered on Gombe covers about 2% of the State and includes 6% of the population.
2.05      The major crops are ainuals such as millet and sorghum, the princi-
pal cereals, and groundnuts, co:ton, and cowpeas. Minor crops include maize,
tomatoes, chilies, cassava a:n. yams. Livestock plays an important role in
the economy and include cattle, sheep, goats and poultry.  The Fulani people,
who are nomadically inclined, oxwn most of the livestock, and have a consider-
able impact on the arable farmer. Traditionally, cotton and groundnuts have
been the north's main cash crops and are likely to remain so; but as the



- 3 -
savannah areas of Nigeria are generally well suited for cereal production,
they could play an important role in the future in producing cereals for the
expanding market created by intensive livestock industries and urban popul-
ations of the south.
C. Agricultural Policy
2.06      Agricultural production in the State is virtually stagnant, and
any increase that is occurring is due to population growth. Although signi-
ficant improvements in crop yields have been demonstrated to be technically
and economically feasible by the research institutions, very little has been
done to help the farmer to obtain and use the innovations necessary to improve
his production. Until very recently, NES had no clear-cut policy for in-
creasing production, and, in the absence of specific plans to implement the
policy, the Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR) still tends to function on a
basis of maintaining the status quo. The extension service is weak and poorly
staffed, credit and marketing institutions barely exist, planning is poor, and
the expertise needed to implement successfully major agricultural and rural
development projects is in very short supply.
2.07      Nigeria's manufacturing industries that are based on farm products
such as cotton and groundnuts, and the rapidly expanding urban population
(estimated to be increasing at 5% annually) are totally dependent on the
small traditional farmer for their raw materials and food supplies. These
farmers, as throughout Nigeria in general, are very poorly serviced, do not
use improved and drought resistant varieties and have very limited access
to fertilizers and agro-chemicals. Production is, therefore, irregular and
is governed by the vagaries of climate and other influences, such as pest
attack, that remain beyond the farmer's control. Given the foregoing, the
small farmer is unable to bank on producing an assured surplus.
2.08      FMG is becoming increasingly aware of the need to rectify the
current situation, and in its discussions with the Bank and NES has agreed
that, in the short term, at least, the quickest way of improving farm pro-
duction and incomes would be to provide a concentration of support services
to areas of reasonable potential and dense farm population. In such areas,
farm sizes cannot increase and farmers, with declining land fertility, are
facing the problem of maintaining, let alone increasing, production. Such
farmers are likely to respond well to any improvements that may be offered to
them. For the longer term, it will be important to develop programs to open
up areas of unused land, particularly in the now tsetse-infested middle belt,
for settlement by farmers and graziers.
2.09      The project appraised in tais report would provide a package of
services to existing farming communities with the objective of increasing
production of cash and food crops; it would train agricultural, credit,
marketing, administrative and engineering staff, and would develop NES
agricultural planning capacity. The increase in farm incomes, generated
by project actions, would be significant. Further background information



- 4 -
is available in Report 416a UNI titled "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Nigeria" dated August 5, 1974 with special reference to Vol III on "Problems
and Prospects of Food Production."
III. PROJECT AREA
A. General
3.01      The project area covers 5,300 km2 and comprises three districts in
Gombe emirate, and part of West Tangale, Waja and Kaltungo Districts, all
within Gombe Administrative Division of Bauchi Province. Map shows area
location within Nigeria.
3.02      The annual rainfall is about 900 mm and is confined to a 7-month
period from April through October. Under reasonable management and utilization
of improved seeds and fertilizers, high yields can be achieved under the
prevailing climatic regime. Due to the seasonality of rainfall and the im-
pervious underlying basement complex, groundwater is severely restricted, and
with increasing land pressures stream flow has markedly diminished and water
supplies for human and livestock resources are a limiting factor to develop-
ment.
3.03      The project area is occupied by the people of the Hausa tribe,
many of whom have emigrated from the Sokoto area of the North Western State,
and by mid-1974 is estimated to have some 58,000 farm families that support a
total project area population of 640,000. The social structure is significant
because of the relative strength and influence of the hierarchical structure
of the Local Authority. The part of project area comes within the jurisdic-
tion of the Emir of Gombe whose hereditary authority is delegated through
salaried district and village heads. The latter are responsible for village
level administration of land tenure arrangements based on Islamic law and
on customary usufructory rights.
3.04      Information on farm size is scant but it is estimated that the
average size farm holding is 4.0 ha. There are some large farms (over 50
ha) within the project area, but these are relatively few. Cropping patterns
(see Annex 1) are dominated by sorghum and millet as food grains, and cotton
and groundnuts as the major cash crops. Numerous minor crops are grown.
3.05      The project area is well served by main roads, and has a railhead
at Gombe. However, crop extraction and minor roads are virtually non-
existent, and communities are seasonally cut off from each other and the
outside world. Transportation of farmer produce and inputs is therefore
difficult and expensive. Further project area data is at Annex 2.



- 5 -
B. Institutions
3.06      State institutions that would be concerned with the project and
their relevant responsibilities are described in Annex 2. They include: the
Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR) that would have the responsibility of
carrying out the project; the Ministry of Works (MOW), responsible for State-
financed public works programs; the Ministry of Health (MOH), responsible for
all aspects of human health in the State; the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and
Cooperatives (MITC); and the Gombe (GLA) and Tangale Waja (TWLA) Local Authori-
ties. The project area comes under the control of these LA, whose functions
include the collection of tax in respect of people and cattle (haraji and
jangali, respectively); the administration of land allocation; and the pro-
vision of services such as feeder road construction and maintenance, dispen-
saries, and primary education as a complement to State Government activities
in these fields.
3.07      Other institutions that would be concerned with or affected by the
project and which are described in Annex 2 would be the Gombe Cooperative
Union; and the Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR) which was created in
the early 1960's from the Research Division of the then Northern Nigeria
Ministry of Agriculture, and which now is a semi-autonomous body linked with
Ahmadu Bello University (ABU).
3.08      Institutions concerned with crop marketing and processing are the
Northern States Marketing Board (NSMB) which as purchasing agent of the Nigerian
Produce Marketing Company (NPMC) is responsible for organizing the domestic
purchase, through its Licensed Buying Agents (LBA), of controlled crops such
as cotton and groundnuts at prices predetermined by FMG, and the Cotton and
Agricultural Processors Ltd. (CAP) which was formerly the British Cotton
Growers' Association (Nigeria) Ltd. and which has had a monopoly for ginning
Nigerian cotton since exports began over half a century ago. CAP has ginneries
throughout the cotton-growing zones of the northern states. The present gin-
ing agreement between CAP and NSMB expires in 1976 and for this reason assur-
ances were obtained from NES during negotiations that any future ginning agree-
ment would not adversely affect the production, marketing or ginning of cotton
within the project. The Produce Inspection Division (PID) of MNR has important
responsibilities for grading controlled produce. Crop processing, marketing
and grading arrangements are described in Annex 2.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The project would be carried out over a five-year investment period
1975/76-1979/80, and would involve:
-    constructing about 1,000 km of low cost agricultural roads,
85 earth dams, 160 tapkis (ponds), and associated soil
conservation structures;



-6-
constructing an administrative center in Gombe, 5 development
unit centers, and 50 farm service centers;
developing and equipp:ing seed multiplication farms at Kumo
and Tumu;
expanding training facilities at Tumu and constructing
a new project training center at Kumo;
provision of adequate farmer extension, credit and marketing
services, including staff, vehicles and equipment;
provision of seasonal and medium-term loans to farmers for
the purchase of crop inputs and farm equipment;
establishing a project evaluation unit;
provision of consultant services for the preparation of
feasibility studies; and
-    preparation of plans for the continued provision of project
services after the investment phase of the project is
completed.
4.02      The project would be managed by the Gombe Project Management Unit
(GOPMU) which would carry out the day-to-day management operations. GOPMU
would be responsible to the Gombe Project Executive Committee (GOPEC) for
budgetary and policy control. A committee would be set up to coordinate
project activities at Federal level. Details at Chapter VI.
B. Detailed Features
4.03      A summary showing the expected scheduling of project activities
is at Annex 2, Table 1; it includes the construction program, the rate of
village involvement, and the number of farmers affected by the project
annually.
4.04      Agricultural Road Development.  The project would provide a network
of 1,000 km of agricultural roads, of a design adequate to allow light traffic
during most of the wet season, and heavy trucks during the dry season. The
roads would permit the efficient evacuation of farm produce, the timely
supply of inputs, the effective movement of project service staff, and much
improved general access to farms and hamlets. This basic infrastructure would
allow other Government programs including health and education to expand into
areas wihich currently are inaccessible. Annex 4 gives details of construction
methods, specifications, and plant and equipment requirements. In view of an
acute shortage of local contracting capacity, and the probable lack of interest
of foreign contractors in work of this sort, construction would be undertaken
by force account through a project operated and managed field construction
unit which would make some use of petty contractors and would thereby assist



- 7 -
in their development. Maintenance of roads and dams would be the responsi-
bility of the Gombe and Tangale Waja Local Authorities. In order to build up
GLA and TWLA operational effectiveness, their respective road maintenance staff
would be seconded to the project for training and operational control. The
project would provide, during the investment period, funds for the purchase
and operation of the necessary maintenance equipment.
4.05      Water Development.  The project would set up and operate a unit
to construct some 85 Small and nedium size earth dams, each of a minimum
capacity of 100,000 m , equipped with simple systems to reticulate the water
away from the reservoir. The reservoirs would supply water for human and
livestock needs and would be located in strategic areas. They would also be
used to supply water for compaction purposes during road construction. In
addition, some 160 tapkis (ponds) would be developed to provide a better
distribution of water for livestock for all but the last 3 months of the dry
season. In a very few instances, the dams and tapkis, where land and water
availability allows, would be used for the irrigation of village vegetable
production. Abundant dam sites are available. Annex 5 provides detail on
design and specifications.
4.06      Soil Conservation.  In association with the water development
program, soil conservation me sures would be undertaken within the catchment
areas of the dams (about 5 km each). These would include the construction
of cutoff ditches, artificial waterways and contour ridging and be aimed to
reduce siltation of the dams and control erosion. Further soil conservation
measures would be taken in providing the farmers with marker ridges to assist
in contour reglignment of crop ridges. During the project investment period,
some 2,700 km or 51% of the project area would be so protected; these
programs should be continued beyond the investment period. Annex 5 provides
the details of this project component.
4.07      Building Development.  The project would include construction of
houses, offices and stores needed for project services. It would include
the construction of 260 houses of various sizes, a project office, 5 devel-
opment center offices, a railhead store and other facilities. In addition,
50 farm service centers, each including a 500-ton capacity warehouse
would be constructed, and improvements made to three market depots associated
with existing and future cotton ginneries. Those houses and buildings not
required by MNR after the project investment period would be taken over by
other Government departments operating within the area.
4.08      Seed Multiplication Farms.  The project would develop and equip
new seed multiplication farms at Kumo and Tumu. Investments would include farm
buildings, water supplies, farm machinery and equipment. These seed farms
would, in association with larger farmers, provide project and other State
farmers with improved seeds, act as demonstration and research centers, and
provide practical training in farm management. Details are at Annex 3,
Schedule 1. During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from NES
that the forest reserve at Kumo and suitable land in the vicinity of Tumu
would be made available to GOPMU for development as seed multiplication
farms.



- 8 -
4.09      Training Facilities.  The project would expand boarding accommoda-
tion at the Tumu training center from 20 to 40 trainees and construct a new
center at Kumo, also catering for 40 residential trainees. Initially, the
centers would be used for project staff training, but progressively emphasis
would be on farmer training.
4.10      Farmer Support Services  The project would expand and intensify
support services for farmers. It would increase the farmer extension person-
nel ratio from the current 1:2,150 to 1:210. This would involve an increase
in extension agents from 28 to 280. The extension personnel would include,
besides basic extension agents, personnel specialized in livestock husbandry,
seed multiplication and farm management, farmer training, and farm equipment.
The tractor hire service now operated by MNR at a loss would be phased out,
and gradually replaced by project sponsored and assisted private operators.
A credit service would be established to operate a project controlled credit
revolving fund and the contingent services to farmers (para. 6.17). A market-
ing service would also be established to improve market liaison, quality con-
trol, price information, produce weighing and to control traders. The credit
and marketing services would employ some 180 staff of various grades; of these
only about 15, mainly produce examiners are now employed by MNR. Consequently,
the majority of personnel employed in these services would receive in-service
training from the project (details are at Annex 6).
4.11      Other MNR services such as veterinary, fisheries and forestry
would continue to work within the project area, and would coordinate their
activities with GOPMU.
4.12      Farm Inputs.  Under the project, seasonal inputs would be made
available to farmers for cash and credit. Such inputs and equipment are
estimated to amount, during the project investment period, to 32,000 tons of
fertilizer, 2,400 tons improved seeds, 900 tons insecticides, 33,000 ultra
low volume insecticide sprayers, 5,000 ox carts, 5,000 ox plows and 50 tractors
and associated implements. Inputs and equipment would be sold at the farm
service centers. Details are at Annexes 7 and 8.
4.13      Project Evaluation.  A field evaluation unit comprising of two
enumeration units would be established to collect relevant data necessary
for the evaluation of project actions and resultant social and economic
benefits. Much of the data would be processed by the evaluation section of
the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) to be established by the
Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (FMANR) and financed
under the loan for the Funtua Agricultural Development Project. The field
evaluation unit would receive technical direction from PMEU, but would be
administered by the Project (Annex 9 for details).
4.14      Provision would be made for the necessary support items such as
motor vehicles, equipment, etc. to ensure that the objectives of the project
are fulfilled. Details at Annex 10.



- 9 -
4.15      Feasibility Studies.  Provision is made under the project for the
FMANR to employ consultants (60 man months) to assist Federal and State
Government agricultural planning teams to prepare feasibility studies for
similar projects. In most instances consultants would be individually
employed.  Support services for the consultants would be provided from normal
Government budget allocations. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that the terms of reference, qualifications and conditions of employment of
the consultants would be mutually satisfactory to the Bank and FMG.
4.16      Post Project Development.  During the project investment period,
MNR and GOPMU would draw up detailed plans and arrange for the allocation
of staff to allow project services to continue undisrupted to farmers within
the project area after the end of the investment period. Presupposing no
radical changes in NES organizatiorn extension and development services would
be handled by MNR's regular provincial organization suitably strengthened;
the field evaluation units would be absorbed by the MNR Planning Unit; NSMB
would take over market control and liaison; and the Gombe and Tangale Waja
Local Authorities or any other appropriate agency would maintain roads and
water supplies provided under the project. Assurances that roads and dams
would be maintained were obtained during negotiations.
4.17      During the project the evaluation section of PMEU would consider
various alternatives for the future use and operations of the revolving
credit and the supply of farm inputs. It is important that by 1980 credit
and farm supplies should be commercially orientated, and that the institutions
involved should be relatively independent of Government with control in the
hands of participating farmers. Prior to negotiations the intention was to
set up a Farmer Finance Company to control and operate the revolving credit
fund. During negotiations FMG indicated that it would prefer to postpone
the formation of such a company to a time when (a) further evaluations of
farmer credit institutions and requirements had been made by Pl'EU during
the first three years of the project; and (b) evidence, if any, of improve-
ments in the performance of the existing cooperative system under new Federal
policy and guidance. The exclusion of the proposed Farmer Finance Company
should have no adverse effect on the project during the development period,
provided that firm plans are made for the proper transfer of the fund to the
appropriate institution prior to the project's completion. Thus, PMEU would
play an important role in evaluating the problems and requirements for future
commercial services to project farmers.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
5.01      Project costs are estimated to total N 27.7 million (US$42.1 million)
of which the foreign exchange component would be N 13.3 million (US$20.2
million) or 48% of total costs.



- 10 -
5.02      The breakdown of project costs is detailed in Annex 10 and is
summarized in the following table:
Summary of Project Costs
%        - - N million ----- --- US$ million ---
Distribution Total Foreign Local Total Foreign Local
Investment Costs
Vehicles, plant
& equipment                 (  7        1.9    1.4    0.5   2.9    2.1    0.8
Houses, buildings,         21(
furnishings & con-          (
struction materials         ( 14        4.0    1.2    2.8   6.1    1.8    4.3
Operating Costs in Development Period
Vehicle & plant
operating                   (  6        1.6    0.7    0.9   2.4    1.1    1.3
General services             (  5        1.4    0.4    1.0   2.1    0.6    1.5
Staff:  Local              27( 12        3.5     -      3.5   5.3      -     5.3
Expatriate Management       (  2        0.5    0.5      -    0.8    0.8      -
Expatriate Technical        (  2       0.5    0.5       -    0.7    0.7      -
Farm Inputs
Incremental farm inputs  25( 14          3.8    2.7    1.1   5.8    4.1    1.7
Fertilizer subsidy           ( 11        3.1    2.2    0.9   4.7    3.3    1.4
Field Evaluation Unit       2   2       0.5    0.2    0.3   0.8    0.3    0.5
Feasibility Studies         1   1       0.2    0.2       -    0.3    0.3      -
Contingencies
Physical                   24(  3        1.0    0.5    0.5   1.5    0.8    0.7
Price                        ( 21        5.7    2.8    2.9   8.7    4.3    4.4
Total Project Costs                  27.7   13.3   14.4  42.1   20.2   21.9
Distribution %                         100     48      52   100      48     52
5.03      Project costs include a 5% physical contingency, and a variable
price contingency 1/ over the proposed five-year loan disbursement period.
Contingencies amount to N 6.7 million (US$10.2 million) or 24% of total projeci
costs. Costs are based on current quotations for vehicles, plant, equipment,
1/   Based on the Bank's Central Projects Staff guidelines for treatment of
project costs. Total price contingency equivalent to 32% of baseline
costs. Fertilizer costs, which have increased out of proportion to other
costs were amended at negotiations to reflect current prices, and because
the average current 1980 prices have been projected to be about the same
as the current 1974 prices, price contigencies for fertilizer have not
been included.



- 1 1 -
materials and farm inputs; on current contract rates for building construction;
and on up-to-date salary and wage scales inclusive of allowances. Costs of
expatriate staff are based on current international salaries, and include
standard benefits and allowances. In the case of farm inputs, only incremental
requirements are costed. Participating farmers would, as now, receive a 50%
subsidy on the cost of phosphatic and nitrogenous fertilizers and the costs
of this subsidy is included in project costs. Project costs include import
duties and taxes (internationally recruited staff salaries and the cost of
specialized consultant services are estimated net of tax). Total taxes amount
to N 0.9 million (US$1.4 million). Analysis of the costs, Annex 10, Table 1,
shows that 7% (N 2.0 million) is for project administration; 25% (N 7.0 million)
is for extension, credit and market services; 16% (N 4.4 million) is for road,
soil and water conservation; 25% (N 6.9 million) for incremental farm inputs
and fertilizer subsidies; 2% (N 0.5 million) for project evaluation; 1% (N 0.2
million) for feasibility studies; and 24% (N 6.7 million) for contingencies.
Internationally recruited staff costs are estimated at 4% of total costs,
about half of which would be for specialized technicians currently unavailable
or in critically short supply in Nigeria.
B. Proposed Financing
5.04      It is proposed that IBRD make a loan of US$21 million to FMG,
repayable at 8% over 20 years including a five-year grace period for principal
during which interest and commitment charges on the loan would be paid. Such
a loan would be equivalent to 50% of total project costs and would cover all
foreign costs, estimated at US$20.2 million (N 13.3 million), and 4% of local
costs amounting to US$0.8 million (N 0.5 million). Of the US$21 million,
N13.6 million (US$20.6 million) would be onlent to the NES, and N 0.2 million
(US$0.4 million) would be retained by FMG to finance the preparation of
feasibility studies. During negotiations it was agreed that the subsidiary
loan agreement between FMG and NES would have been approved by the Bank.
5.05      NES would provide N 12.7 million (US$19.3 million) or 46% of
total project cost as its contribution to investment and operating costs.
The remainder of project costs estimated at N 1.2 million (US$1.8 million)
or 4% would be contributed by participating farmers in the form of cash
purchases of seasonal inputs and down payments on farm equipment. Details
of the project financing plan are shown at Annex 11, Table 1, and are summa-
rized in the following table:



- 12 -
Summary of Proposed Financing
Total       IBRD        NES        Farmer
 _______------- N '000 
Investment Costs
Vehicles, plant and equipment          1,873.1      1,405.6      467.5
Buildings, construction material,
houses and furnishings               4,034.7      2,420.8   1,613.9
Operating Costs in Development
Period
Vehicle and plant operating            1,639.8            -   1,639.8
General services                       1,354.4            -   1,354.4
Staff:  Local                          3,489.4      2,093.6   1,395.8
Expatriate management            545.0        545.0         -
Expatriate technical             425.0       425.0          -
Farm Inputs
Incremental farm inputs                3,809.4      2,704.7      230.3       874.4
Fertilizer subsidy                     3,114.4            -   3,114.4
Field Evaluation Unit                    494.1        296.5      197.6
Feasibility Studies                      200.0        200.0          -           _
Contingencies
Physical                               1,049.0        504.6      500.7        43.7
Price                                  5,682.2      3,220.0   2,182.4        279.8
Total N'000                         27,710.5    13,815.8  12,696.8    1,197.9
US$'000                             42,120.0    21,000.0  19,299.1    1,820.9
Distribution %                           100           50        46            4
5.06      It was agreed that as from the date of loan negotiations retro-
active financing of up to US$150,000 would be made available for the employ-
ment of key personnel (para 6.09).
C. Procurement
5.07      Procurement of vehicles, plant, equipment, fertilizers, insecticides,
farm tractors and implements, where orders or contracts had a value of more
than USS25,000, would be through international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with IBRD guidelines. Such procurement is estimated to have a
value of about N 8.8 million (US$13.4 million). Domestically manufactured
goods would be allowed a 15% preference when comparing domestic bids with
those of foreign manufacturers. Contracts for the construction of buildings,



- 13 -
houses, and the purchase of construction materials and furnishings valued at
N 4.0 million (USS6.1 million) would not be attractive to foreign contractors,
due to the disbursed location of the work and the small size of individual
contracts and orders, and would be awarded under locally advertised competi-
tive bidding. In the latter case, foreign firms and suppliers would not be
precluded from bidding as such work would be advertized in at least one local
newspaper, but bonafide domestic contractors would receive a 7-1/2% preference
in bid evaluation. Construction of roads, water supplies and soil conserva-
tion works estimated at N 4.4 million (US$6.7 million) would be carried out on
force account due to the shortage of suitable medium scale contractors who
normally would undertake this work, however, petty contractors would be
employed to the maximum extent feasible. A large part of project costs, an
estimated N 8.1 million (US$12.3 million), would be for labor, staff salaries
and allowances, vehicle maintenance and operation, general services, project
evaluation, and feasibility study preparation, and as such generally be
unsuitable for competitive bidding. Those items not included specifically
under procedures for ICB or local competitive bidding would be purchased
through local commercial channels. The remaining N 6.7 million (US$10.2
million) of project costs would be contingencies. Nigeria has no preferential
import tariff arrangements and competition between foreign manufacturers on
the domestic market is keen.
D. Disbursement
5.08      The proceeds of the Bank loan (US$21 million) would be disbursed
over five years (1975/76-1979/80) to cover 50% of total project costs and
would be expended against the following categories:
100% of the cif cost of directly imported vehicles,
heavy plant, and equipment (Annex 10, Table 2) or 75% of the
cost of these items if locally procured totalling US$2.1
million (N1.4 million);
100% of the cif cost of directly imported farm tractors
and equipment, ox drawn equipment, spraying machines,
fertilizers, insecticides, battery sets and seeds
(Annex 7, Tables 2-5) or 71% of the cost of these
items if procured locally totalling US$4.1 million
(N 2.7 million);
100% of the cost of internationally recruited staff (Annex 10,
Table 4) totalling US$1.5 million (Ni.0 million);
60% of the cost of build-ngs, houses, furnishings,
and construction material and labor for roads, dams
and soil conservation works (Annex 10, Table 3) totalline
US$3.7 million (N2.4 million);
60% of local staff costs (Annex 10, Table 4) totalling
US$3.2 million (N 2.1 million);



- 14 -
60% of the cost of the field evaluation unit US$0.5
million (N 0.3 million) (Annex 9, Table 1);
100% of the cost of consultant services to prepare
feasibility studies US$0.3 million (N 0.2 million); and
an unallocated amount totalling US$5.6 million (N 3.7
million) to cover physical and price contingencies.
5.09      Disbursements of the Bank loan would be against import documentation,
contracts and certified records of expenditures. For disbursements made
against certified records of expenditures, documentation would not be sub-
mitted for review as a matter of course, but would be retained by the project
management unit for scrutiny by Bank supervision missions. Any surplus loan
funds after the completion of the project would be used to further develop
the project area providing expanded services to farmers.
E. Budgetary Control Funding Procedures Accounts and Audit
5.10      Budgets.  Annual budgets would be prepared by GOPMU management and
approved by GOPEC for inclusion in the MNR development budget.  The initial
budget would use as its base the cost estimates set out in this report, but
would be amended where necessary to tie in with changes in costs and project
policies and development schedules. Major changes in policies and procedures
would have to be approved by NES and the Bank. GOPMU management would, there-
after, amend its monthly cash flow statement indicating costs, revenues and
working capital requirements. These monthly statements would be submitted
to GOPEC for monitoring but GOPMU would be authorized to operate on such
monthly statements unless officially informed to the contrary by the Chairman
of GOPMU. Assurances that the above arrangements would be employed were
obtained from NES during negotiations.
5.11      Funding Procedures.  On the basis of the annual budget approved by
GOPEC, NES would make the necessary allocations in its annual development
budget to cover its contribution to project costs as well as about 25% of the
remaining annual costs of the project to meet working capital requirements,
the latter amounting to about N 0.7 million. In order to insure an adequate
flow of funds to the project, assurances were obtained during negotiations,
that when necessary adequate guaranteed draw down procedures would be made
by NES with a bank of its choice to allow GOPMU full access to funds within
the limitation of the approved annual budget. As a condition of loan effec-
tiveness, NES would furnish the Bank with satisfactory evidence that a project
bank account with adequate funds had been established.
5.12      Accounts and Audit.  Accounts for GOPMU would be kept under accept-
able commercial accounting procedures. However, such accounts would be set
up to facilitate the retrieval of cost accounting and project evaluation data,
as well as for audit control. Accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors, mutually acceptable to NES, FMG and the Bank. Audited annual accounte



- 15 -
balance sheets and operating statements for GOPMU would be submitted simul-
taneously to NES, FMG and the Bank within four months of the closing of the
financial year. During negotiations, assurances to these effects were obtained.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization
6.01      The project being the first of its kind in the State would have to
be carefully controlled. Because of its size and responsibilities for various
development aspects not normally associated with any one Government Ministry,
it would need a degree of autonomy not normally given to Ministerial Depart-
ments. Thus, the project would be implemented by the Gombe Project Management
Unit (GOPMU), headed by a Project Manager who would be responsible to the
Gombe Project Executive Committee (GOPEC); the chairman of which would be the
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Natural Resources of NES. GOPMU would
have its headquarters at Gombe, the Divisional town and center of the project
area. GOPMU would coordinate its activities with other similar projects at
a Federal level through a Federal Coordinating Committee. As a condition of
loan effectiveness, the North East State Executive Council would gazette an order,
mutually acceptable to FMG and the Bank, establishing GOPMU, setting out its
terms of reference and responsibilities. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations (a draft proposal for the gazetted order is at
Annex 6, Schedule 2).
6.02      Gombe Project Executive Committee would, inter alia, determine
policy, coordinate project activities with those of associated State Ministries
and Departments, exercise budgetary and audit control, approve the appointment
of professional grade staff, and review and set salary scales. GOPEC would
meet at least once a quarter and would comprise: the Permanent Secretary
MNR as Chairman, and representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Local
Government Works, Economic Planning, and NES Water Board, a representative
of the Federal Department of Agriculture, Chief Agricultural Officer for the
North East State, and two members residtng in the project area to be appointed
by the Military Governor. The Project Marager would be secretary of GOPEC.
6.03      A Federal Coordinating Committee would be established to review the
progress of the Gombe and similar projects in the northern states. It would
provide coordination between other Bank-financed agricultural projects of
similar nature in northern Nigeria, and would ensure a full exchange of ideas
and results. In its review of project progress, it would be aided by the
evaluation section of the Proiect Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) set
up under the Bank loan for the Funtua Agricultural Development Project. The
committee would meet at least twice a year and would comprise: The Director
of the Federal Department of Agric.ilture (FDA) as Chairman; Chief Agricultural
Planning Officer (FDA) as Secretary; a representative from the respective
project executive committees; Project Managers of Gombe, Funtua and Gusau;



- 16 -
Director of the Institute of Agricultural Research, the Read of PMEU evaluation
section; representatives of NAB and NPMC; and representatives of the Federal
Ministry of Finance. During negotiations assurances were obtained that a
Federal Coordinatina Committee would be established, with terms of reference
and composition satisfactory to the Bank, within three months of loan effec-
tiveness.
6.04      Project Administration would fall under the direct responsibility
of the Project Manager for all operational procedures and actions. He would
be responsible to GOPEC. GOPEC, in consultation with the Project Manager,
would appoint one of the senior project staff as Deputy Project Manager.
The Project Manager would be assisted by: Chief Administrative Officer,
Chief Accountant, Chief Technical Officer, Chief Engineer, Chief Marketing
Officer, and Credit Manager (Annex 6, Schedule 3 provides details of the
tasks of key personnel). A summary showing the functions of the project's
six operational sections follows:
(a) Administration Section would be responsible for all project
personnel matters, staff transportation, registry, security
and public relations.
(b)  Finance Section would be responsible for project accounts,
procurement, stores, internal audit, budget control and would
set up systems to provide accurate cost accounts for evaluation
and management purposes.
(c) Technical Services Section would be responsible for farm
extension advice, staff and farmer training, seed multipli-
cation, farm management advice to larger farmers, and tractor
hire services. The main development effort would be through
the extensiorn service and structurally it would consist of
five development unit centers based on the towns of Gombe,
Kumo, Tumu, Wagari and Telassie, each headed by a development
officer, 1/ who would supervise agricultural assistants (AA)
posted to 50 farm service centers of the project area. Each
AA would supervise an average of four agricultural instructors
(Al) who would live in the hamlets associated with the service
center and who would work w-cth the hamlet farmers and their
committees. In -his way, tne extension system would be
tailored to the traditional village structure.
(d) Credit Services Section. Credit services would work parallel
with the extension services. Credit Officers would be posted
to Development Unit Centers, and two Credit Assistants to each
Farm service center.
1/   Normally, the minimum grace or the officer filling this post would be
that of agricultural officer. However, in the early stages of the
project, it is likely that most of the posts would be filled by
agricultural superintendents.



- 17 -
(e) Market Services Section would monitor the existing marketing
system, liaise and provide market information for buyers and
farmers, control the activities of Licensed Buying Agents (LBA),
and supervise the work of produce examiners (PE). A Marketing
Supervisor would be assisted by two Marketing Assistants posted
to each Development Unit Center and a Produce Examiner would be
posted to each market. Market Services would be responsible
for the logistics involved in procurement of farm inputs and
for their distribution and handling. As such, the produce
examiner would carry out the functions of store keeper when
the markets are closed.
(f) Engineering Services Section would be a specialized service
responsible for land use planning, road construction, water
development, soil conservation, building supervision and
workshop management. It would prepare tender documentation
for procurement of engineering equipment and supplies,
supervise building contractors, and implement all construc-
tion aspects of the project not undertaken by contractors.
It would maintain project vehicles and equipment.
6.05      Project field evaluation would be directed by the evaluation section
of PMIEU. The field enumeration staff would be administratively responsible
to the Project Manager. Details of the field unit are at Annex 9.
B. Staffing
6.06      Both Federal and State Governments recognize the need for qualified
and experienced staff to administer the project and assure high technical
standards in its field implementation. The northern States are generally
short of qualified personnel to fill key project management and senior techni-
cal posts, and the demand for personnel with such expertise is high. NES
is fully aware of the problem of staffing the project adequately and is
prepared to recruit staff internationally where qualified Nigerian personnel
are not available. Medium level technical and administrative staff needed
for the project are generally available in Nigeria, though not necessarily
in the North Eastern State. Most lower level staff needs would be met from
within the State: existing civil servants; or the output of existing training
schemes; or staff recruited and trained directly by the project.
6.07      Management Staff.  International recruitment is expected to be
necessary for the Project Manager, Chief Accountant, Credit Manager, and Chief
Engineer. The Chief Administrative Officer, Chief Marketing Office and Chief
Technical Officer would be Nigerian appointments. During negotiations assur-
ances were obtained that the qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment of appointees to the above posts would be mutually acceptable to
the Bank and to NES. A condition of effectiveness would be that the Project
Manager, Chief Administrative Officer, Chief Accountant, Chief Engineer and
Chief Technical Officer had been appointed.



- 18 -
6.08      High Level Technical Staff.  Nigeria is critically short of expe-
rienced technical personnel. Given the shortage of experienced and available
technical staff, it is likely that a farm manager, a seeds officer, a land
use planner, a road engineer, a mechanical engineer, a water and soil conser-
conservation engineer and a senior evaluation officer would have to be recruit
internationally. During negotiations assurances were obtained that their
qualifications and terms and conditions of employment would be acceptable to
the Bank and NES.
6.09      Medium Level Staff.  Professional officer (e.g., Agricultural
Officer) or senior technical officer (e.g., Agricultural Superintendent)
grades would be recruited from within the State or from other States in
Nigeria. All field technical, credit and marketing service staff would be
required to be ilausa speaking. Medium and lower level staff exist, although
many are assigned currently to non-productive posts. During negotiations
assurances were obtained from NES that a minimum of 3 Agricultural Officers,
10 Agricultural Superintendents and 48 Agricultural Assistants or experienced
agricultural instructors would be made available to the project during the
first two years.
6.10      Where possible, project staff, particularly agricultural staff,
would be appointed to the project as Government employees on full pensionable
service. Expatriate staff and other Nigerian staff such as engineers, credit
and marketing personnel would be appointed on three-year contracts renewable
on negotiation. Salaries would generally follow acceptable Government scales.
Every effort would be made to avoid transfer of staff away from the project,
except on the grounds of unsuitability, and assurances were obtained during
negotiations that transfers of senior staff into and from the project organi-
zation would be undertaken only after consultation with GOPEC.
6.11      Project staff of technical grades (or equivalent) and above would
be provided with project housing both at Gombe and in the field.  Non-
technical grades such as agricultural instructors (Al) and produce examiners
(PE), as well as clerks, drivers, messengers, etc., would be expected to
find their own accommodation in the towns and villages. At the discretion
of project management, staff would be provided with project transport.
Project staff would qualify for normal Government allowances. Annex 10,
Tables 3-4, give details. Due to expected delays in construction of houses,
costs are included for renting private accommodation (Annex 10, Table 6).
C. Staff Training
6.12      GOPMU would undertake the training of lower level staff through
special courses at project training centers (para 4.09). The training of
higher level staff would be undertaken on an inservice basis. GOPMU would
pay particular attention to training selected staff to fill managerial
positions as these are vacated by internationally recruited personnel (see
Annex 6 Tables 1-5 for possible schedule) and would undertake, as requested,
to train staff to be employed for other NES development projects. Such



- 19 -
staff would receive practical management training on the project and would
have the opportunity of decision making at various levels within the project,
but would retain executive responsiblity for their own section of the project.
NES and the Bank would ensure that adequate training of potential management
staff was undertaken, and GOPMU management would report regularly on the
progress of project training.
D. Farm Inputs - Procurement and Distribution and Credit Procedures
6.13      GOPMU would be responsible for the procurement, distribution and sale,
for cash or credit, of fertilizers, seeds, insecticides, sprayers, oxdrawn
equipment, tractors, and other necessary farm supplies; and would decide on
the suitability and composition of any package of inputs offered to farmers.
It is expected that 75% of seasonal inputs and 100% of farm equipment would
be sold on credit. The value of inputs sold during the project life is
estimated at N 6.3 million for fertilizer; N 2.0 million for insecticides,
seeds, and batteries; and N 1.6 million for farm equipment; a total of N 9.9
million.  The net cash requirement for inputs would be a total of N 6.9
million of which N 3.1 million would be the NES subsidy on fertilizers.
Annex 7 describes farm inputs and their procurement.
6.14      GOPMU marketing services would be responsible, on advice of the
technical staff, for the procurement of farm inputs and for the logistics
involved in their handling within the project area.
6.15      Currently NES subsidizes nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizers
by between 30 and 50% of their cost delivered MNR store. The actual rate
depends on the efficiency and cost of NES handling. Under the project
farmers would receive nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizer at 50% of cost
cif farm service center. Such a subsidy is justified (a) as an incentive
for farmers to use fertilizer, 1/ and (b) to compensate for generally low
marketing board prices for statutory marketed crops. During loan negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the present subsidy on fertilizers would be
maintained. Currently insecticides receive a 50% subsidy. However, as usage
is insignificant at present and the benefits of their use clearly discernible
and profitable, insecticides would be sold to farmers at their full cost.
Farm Credit
6.16      The organization of the delivery and recovery of farm credit is
described in Annex 8. The net incremental credit requirement and gross
credit disbursed during the five-year project period is estimated at N 2.9
million and N 4.6 million respectively.
1/   The gross cost of fertilizer is high in northern Nigeria, and to induce
the farmer to use more fertilizer subsidies are an added incentive.
Fertilizer subsidies are general throughout Nigeria.



- 20 -
6.17      GOPMU would set up a revolving credit fund to be operated by the
Credit Services Section of the project. Prior to the beginning of each
planting season, a schedule of proposed lending terms would be furnished by
GOPMU to GOPEC, which in consultation with appropriate Nigerian authorities
and the Bank would apply the lending terms for the said season. Interest
rates for subloans would be between 5 - 9-1/2%, and would be determined on
a basis of the category of farmers or type of inputs to be provided. Assur-
ances to these effects were obtained during negotiations.
6.18      As a basis for preparing crop budgets shown at Annex 1, it is
assumed that GOPMU would lend at a flat service rate of 10%, a charge which
can be afforded by the farmers and would include sufficient margin to cover
bad debts, etc. Repayments would be made for seasonal loans within 12 months;
sprayers over 2 years; ox-drawn equipment over 3 years; and tractors and
implements over 4 years. Except in cases of crop failure, when a moratorium
would be declared by GOPEC, a borrower not repaying his loan by the due date
would be charged a penalty of 1% per month. Funds have not been specifically
provided under the loan for cash credits to cover the employment of farm
labor as it is considered that any additional labor requirements would be
met from within the family unit, particularly as the project is directed
towards the small family operated farm holding. However, in the light of
current changes in Nigeria, specifically the advent of compulsory free edu-
cation, the need for hired labor may increase. During the project life
GOPMU in association with PMEU would establish the parameters, if any, for
cash credits, and the logistics involved in their disbursement and collection.
If the findings are positive, the Government and the Bank would agree on the
utilization of local funds or disbursements from undisbursed portions of the
Bank loan.
6.19      The revolving credit fund is an intimate part of the project, and
of necessity has to evolve into a more permanent institution so that farmers
can utilize its funds after the project is completed. Such an institution
might take the form of cooperatives, farmer finance companies, or branches
of state or national credit banks. So as to ensure a proper transfer of
responsibilities, the Evaluation Section of PMEU would, as one of its duties,
determine the future institutional form of the fund, taking into account the
performance of existing lending institutions and the needs of the farmers.
6.21      Operating procedures, which are described in Annex 8, would be
subject to modification as necessary, would be devised by the project credit
service but would include the following essential components: lending would
be limited to input items carried by the project at its service center stores,
and be in amounts specified on a simple farm management plan drawn up for
each borrower by extension service staff. Sale of items would be recorded
on a bookkeeping machine. As the farm service centers develop into the main
markets for cash crops, farmers would be encouraged to repay their debts to
GOPMU at time of sale. All borrowers would have a laminated identity card
containing their photograph, serial number, and signature or mark to facil-
itate identification and record keeping.



- 21 -
6.22      The creditworthiness of each loan applicant would be certified by
his hamlet or village head, or a project approved farmers association; this
would be part of the mutual guarantee policy that GOPMU would pursue. Under
this, once a year GOPMU would review all hamlet accounts, and where defaults
were found the village, hamlet or farmer association authorities, whichever
the smallest unit, would be informed of their defaulters and urged to collect
from defaulters, unless due cause is presented for default. If defaults were
not made good, GOPMU would withhold credit to all farmers in the defaulting
unit. It is believed that this technique would be a powerful influence in
avoiding default, under northern Nigerian circumstances. Provision would be
made to extend credit to groups or to village farmer associations if farmers
wish to pool the input requirements and assume joint liability for the credit.
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, FARMERS' BENEFITS AND
FINANCIAL INPLICATION TO GOVERNMENT
A. Yields and Outputs
7.01      The complexity of cropping mixtures and patterns in the project
area make yield variations between farms inevitable and substantial. It has
been assumed, however, that by project maturity in 1980 project area farmers
would fall into one of two or three categories for each of the five crops
that would be influenced by the project. The categories would be determined
by the extent to which the farmer had taken up improved practices. Details
are given in Annex 1. Yield improvements and increases in gross production
due to project actions are summarized for each of the five crops:
-----Before Development             ----After Development--
Area  Av. Yield  Total Prod.       Area  Av. Yield  Total Prod.
(ha)    (kg/ha) ('000 m tons)    (ha)   (kg/ha)  ('000 m tons)
Seed Cotton        51,500      310         16          60,800      600       37
Sorghum            69,600       700        49          57,600     990        57
Maize               4,800       900         3          23,000   1,600        38
Groundnuts         10,000       500         5          12,600      860       11
Cowpea              5,000       200         1           5,600      360        2
7.02      Yield improvements are conservative and fall well within experimental
and field results obtained in northern Nigeria and other similar ecological
zones elsewhere in West Africa. The proposed crop inputs to achieve these
expected increases have been well tested, and are economic. Further details
are at Annexes 1 and 3.



- 22 -
B. Markets and Prices
7.03      Currently food crops grown in the project area are marketed via
rural markets. Marketing is not efficient since although local competition
may be strong, the market open to the farmer is very small and only a fraction
of the national market. The main defects spring from the fragmented nature
of the market and farmers' lack of both accurate information and bargaining
power; the project would seek to rectify this position (details are given in
Annex 12, paras 38 and 39).
7.04      Following a FMG announcement in early 1973, statutory marketing of
cotton and groundnuts together with other cash crops in Nigeria is undergoing
a series of organizational changes which include: (a) federal responsibility
for producer price determination and support price policies; this could lead
eventually to subsidization of primary and secondary marketing operations
by FMG; (b) abolition of producer taxes; (c) closer relationship between
world and producer prices and thus an end to indirect taxation through accu-
mulation of surpluses by the Marketing Boards; and (d) the Northern States
Marketing Board (NSMB) becoming an agent for the Nigerian Produce Marketing
Company (NPMC), the latter wholly owned by FMG now being the price controlling
and setting organization within the statutory system. The reforms are being
effected, and the 1974 producer prices reflect the actual world market situ-
ation, and should provide considerable production incentives.
7.05      As there is need for considerable improvement in primary marketing
the project would take various measures to improve marketing in general.
More specifically, the project would provide improved weighing and measuring
devices and village storage facilities, and would relocate markets to improve
the ease of crop marketing. For the statutory crops a number of marketing
reforms would be necessary, such reforms initially to be confined to the
project areas include: (a) time]y announcement of producer prices; (b) pro-
vision of adequate funds to LBA for produce purchase; (c) establishment and
enforcement of quality standards; and (d) disciplining of inefficient or
dishonest LBA and produce inspection staff. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that: (i) NES would cause the NSMB to pay particular attention
to efficient produce buying within the project area, and (ii) where necessary
encourage groups of farmers to operate as Licensed Buying Agents within the
project area.
7.06      Producer prices for industrial and export crops, such as cotton and
groundnuts, are expected under the new FMG policies to improve during the
early years of the project, but would then be expected to decline by 1980
in line with prices projected by the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections
Department. Food crop prices are expected to decline somewhat from present
levels in consequence of more intensive cereal production in the project
area but are expected to remain substantially above world (export parity)
prices. The crop budgets shown in Annex 1 and farmers' budgets discussed
below use projected 1980 producer prices, expressed in 1974 constant Naira,
as shown in the following table:



- 23 -
Present and Future Prices for Project Crops
Cotton   Groundnuts   Maize   Sorghum   Cowpeas
fob        fob         cif      cif        cif
--------------------N/metric ton-----
Nigerian Port
1972                        490         156          50       47          -
1973                        520         220          80       77          -
1980                        636         156          69       63          -
Financial Producer Price
1972                        110          68           -        -          -
1973                        130          93           -        -         95
1980                        203          93          86       90         91
Economic Producer Price        268        129          76        74        99
C. Farmer Benefits
7.07      Farmers participating in project activities would obtain substantial
direct income benefits through utilizing project services and inputs. Addi-
tional indirect benefits due to improved roads, water supplies, soil conser-
vation and marketing would accrue to all farmers within the project area.
7.08      Estimated direct benefits have been calculated on a per ha basis
for the five principal crops. The summarized crop budgets below indicate
the overall benefits of improved technology over traditional practices, and
in particular show the possibilities of maize as a major cash crop within
the area.
Level of Technology
Traditional          Intermediate           Advanced
-     -------- - -----------Naira--------------- ----
Net Return/ha,
excluding Labor Costs
Cotton                       59.9              112.6 (1.2) /1       157.0 (1.5)
Groundnuts                   44.9               79.4 (0.8)              -
Sorghum                      61.4              102.5 (2.6)              -
Maize                         67.3              98.7 (1.8)          189.2 (3.3)
Cowpeas                       16.5             31.1 (0.9)               -
/1   (  ) incremental return to incremental labor requirement (N/manday).



- 24 -
7.09      The report has made no attempt to produce a typical farm budget
since farm sizes and production combinations vary considerably throughout
the project area, and any such budget would not be realistic. Instead,
expected farmer benefits have been derived from a series of crop budgets for
1 ha units of production. Project actions would result in measurable addi-
tions to net family incomes totalling N 5.7 million per annum in 1980.
Studies undertaken in areas similar to the project show net farm incomes
including income from livestock and the value of produce consumed to be in
the order of N 217 (US$330) per family or about N 27 (US$41) per capita,
The net income for the five project crops accounts for about N 143 (US$217)
per family. The additional net income derived from the improved output of
the five crops would be N 98 (US$149) per family, an increase of 45%. The
average per capita income would increase from US$41 to US$60. Such an
improvement infers a growth in net farm income of 8% per annum and would
appear feasible given efficient project management.
D. Financial Implication for Government
7.10      The cash flow for NES is summarized in Annex 11, Table 2.  The
average cost to NES inclusive of loan servicing, would be about N 3.9 million
annually until 1995. Thereafter the cost would be reduced to N 2.6 million
annually. Considerable reductions, in Government support finance, could be
made if and when the fertilizer subsidy is reduced or totally removed; such
savings would amount to N 1.5 million annually. NES could further recoup up
to N 3.0 million when the revolving credit fund is institutionalized, thereby
allowing NES to retire part or all of its capital. The recent abolition of
producer taxes on statutory crops throughout Nigeria, including cotton ancl
groundnuts, would result in NES receiving no tangible financial benefits from
the project.
7.11      The Federal Government would, through secondary or tertiary multi-
plier benefits, conservatively estimated for Nigeria at between 8 to 20%,
collect indirect taxation revenues of about N 0.7 million annually.
VIII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The project's principal direct benefit would be the incremental
increase in farm production that it would generate, and which would result
directly in higher incomes for some 32,000 farm families, and better living
standards for a further 26,000 who would benefit through the improved infra-
structure and marketing arrangements within the project area. If the non-
farming population, traders, laborers, etc., are included, then about 640,000
people would in one way or other receive primary or secondary benefits through
project activities. The economic rate of return from investment in the project
is estimated at 17%. Important assumptions used in the calculation at Annex 13
are:



- 25 -
(a) a shadow wage rate of N 0.40 per 6-hr man/day, as against
the official rate of N 0.60;
(b) the exclusion of identif:Lable taxes from economic costs;
(c) a shadow foreign exchange rate of US$1.27 per N 1.00 as
against the official rate of US$1.52 per N 1.00;
(d) economic farm gate prices for 1980 in 1974 constant Naira
as projected by the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections
Division (para 7.06) based on export parity for groundnuts
and cotton and import substitution for maize, sorghum and
cowpeas; and
(e) the exclusion of water and associated soil conservation
development costs, and the costs of the field evaluation
unit and feasibility studies since the benefits attributed
to them are intangible.
8.02      If no adjustment is made for the shadow rate of foreign exchange,
the economic rate of return would be reduced to 10%. It is possible that the
project might not meet the proposed production targets for a number of reasons,
including poor management, lack of farmer response, and the possible failure
of delivery of farm inputs due to uncontrollable circumstances; and as such
it is important to test the economic rate of return against various levels
of reduced production and the associated reduction in farm inputs, allowing
all other factors to remain constant. This analysis is set out below:
Production Levels as Percentage of Estimated
Project Output
100%     90%      80%     70%      60%   550%
Economic rate of return %    17        14       12       10       6        2
8.03      Such a sensitivity analysis, indicates that the project would
remain viable even when production targets fall short by as much as 30%.
Production at levels lower than 70% of target would infer the need for
restructuring of overhead investments, including reductions in staff and
associated investments. A comprehensive sensitivity analysis is shown at
Annex 13.
8.04      The project would have important secondary benefits that would
accrue both to the people of the project area, and for the State and Federation
as a whole. The more important ones would be for:
(a) the people of the project area would benefit from (a) a general
improvement in communications and public utilities, due to project
actions initiating change and providing a basis for extending,
by other Government institutions, social improvements including
health and education; (b) an expected increase in local trade



- 26 -
that would offer better opportunities of employment for the
non-fanming population; and (c) the strengthening of local
institutions including the local authorities and local
departments of Government.
(b) the North Eastern State would benefit principally through
part of its population being stabilized and becoming more
productive. Increased net employment accounting for 12,000
man years per annum would result from projected actions.
The State would use the project to test new development ideas
that could, if successful, be easily transposed together with
trained staff to other areas. The Ministry of Natural
Resources would be strengthened, and would derive from the
project, new credit and marketing techniques that could be
easily offered to other State farmers. The project would
set up seed multiplication centers that could provide seed
to other farmers elsewhere in the State. Finally, the
project would produce additional raw material and would demand
additional input resources to support the growth of the State's
industrial expansion.
(c) the Federal Republic of Nigeria would benefit from annual
net incremental foreign exchange earnings amounting at full
production to N 8.4 million (US$12.8 million). Project
evaluation through the project established evaluation unit
would provide a wealth of information that could assist in
determining Federal agricultural policy, and resource and
financial allocations throughout Nigeria.
8.05      Even though the economic rate of return appears very favorable, in
the long run indirect tangible benefits and intangible benefits may prove
far more valuable than direct tangible benefits. Improved farm management
practices and profits to farming would far outlive the project. A step would
be taken in the right direction to reduce income disparity and to ensure a
more even food supply for Nigeria's urban populations and expanding commercial
livestock industries. Perhaps most importantly, the people of the project
area would have the peace of mind that would come from more assured water
supplies in the dry season, the added confidence in an improved marketing
system, the satisfaction of a little more money to spend, and the hope that
they and their children would live a little better in the future.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from FMG that:
(a) the terms of reference, qualifications and conditions of
employment of the consultants employed to undertake feasibility
studies would be mutually satisfactory to the Bank and FMG
(para 4.15); and



- 27 -
(b) a Federal Coordinating Committee would be established,
with terms of reference and composition satisfactory to
the Bank, within three months of loan effectiveness.
9.02      During negotiations assurances were obtained from NES that:
(a) any new future ginning agreement would not adversely affect
the present arrangements as to the production, marketing or
ginning of cotton within the project area (para 3.08);
(b) the forest reserve at Kumo and suitable land in the vicinity
of Tumu would be made available to GOPMU for the development
as seed multiplication farms (para 4.08);
(c) Gombe Local Authority and Tangale-Waja Local Authority or
any other appropriate agency would maintain roads and water
supplies provided under the project (para 4.16);
(d) GOPEC would be responsible for approval of GOPMU annual
budgets and monthly cash flow statements and GOPMU management
would be authorized to operate on such monthly statements
unless officially informed to the contrary by the Chairman
of GOPEC (para 5.10);
(e)  when necessary adequate guaranteed draw-down procedures
would be made with a bank of its choice to allow GOPMU
full access to funds within the limitation of the approved
annual budget (para 5.11);
(f) audited annual accounts for GOPMU would be prepared by
independent auditors, mutually acceptable to NES and the
Bank, and would be submitted simultaneously to the Bank,
NES and FMG within 4 months of the closing of the financial
year (para 5.12);
(g) the qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment of the Project Manager, Chief Accountant,
Credit Manager, Chief Engineer, Chief Marketing Officer,
Chief Technical Officer and Chief Administrative Officer
would be mutually acceptable to the Bank and NES (para 6.07);
(h) a farm manager, a seeds officer, a land use planner, a
road engineer, a mechanical engineer, a water and soil
conservation engineer, and a senior evaluation officer
would be appointed with qualifications and terms and
conditions of employment mutually acceptable to the Bank
and NES (para 6.08);
(i) a minimum of 3 Agricultural Officers, 10 Agricultural
Superintendents and 48 Agricultural Assistants or experienced
agricultural instructors would be made available to the project
during the first two years (para 6.09);



- 28 -
(j) transfer of senior staff into and from the project would be
undertaken only after consultation with GOPEC (para 6.10);
(k) (i) NES would cause the NSMB to pay particular attention to
its efficient produce buying within the project area, and
(ii) where necessary encourage groups of farmers to operate
as Licensed Buying Agents within the project area (para 7.05).
9.03      Retroactive financing would be available for the employment of key
personnel (para 6.07) appointed as from date of loan negotiations amounting
to no more than US$150,000 (para 5.06).
9.04      Conditions of effectiveness of loan would be that:
(a) NES would furnish the Bank with satisfactory evidence that
a project bank account with adequate funds had been estab-
lished (para 5.11);
(b) North Eastern State Executive Council had officially
established GOPEC and GOPMU with terms of reference and
responsibilities mutually acceptable to the Bank and NES
(para 6.01); and
(c) the Project Manager, Chief Administrative Officer, Chief
Accountant, Chief Engineer, and Chief Technical Officer
would have been appointed (para 6.07).
9.05      On the basis of the above assurances, the project would be suitable
for a US$21 million loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
Gombe Agricultural Development Project
Farm and Crop Development
A. General
1.        The major crops in the project area are sorghum and millet, cotton,
groundnuts and cowpeas. Minor crops include maize, sugarcane, chilies and
okra. Production data for cotton and groundnuts are compiled from purchases
by the Northern States Marketirg Board (NSMB) (Tables 1 and 2). No production
data are available for other crops; nor is there other than qualitative in-
formation on farmers' yields, farm sizes or cropping patterns. Ecological
and sociological conditions are comparable in a number of respects between
the project area and other localities, mainly in North Central State, which
have been subjected to detailed socio-economic survey. 1/ To the extent
possible this work has been used to supplement mission judgments and local
opinion on the formulation of assumptions on present and projected farming
activities.
2.        Cattle, sheep and goats are kept throughout the project area by
farmers, and in substantially larger numbers by semi-nomadic pastoralists
(Fulani). The latter utilize fallow land (a rapidly diminishing resource),
forest and grazing reserves, and crop residues for their livestock. They
exist in an increasingly uneasy symbiosis with settled cultivators as pressure
on land increases with rising populations. Livestock management systems are
generally poor and productivity is low. There are no reliable data on stock
numbers.
3.        Cultivations are carried out mainly by hand hoe and cutlass.  How-
ever, at least 6,000 farmers are known to own work oxen and equipment. Th(
MNR tractor hiring service plows and ridges land for farmers at subsidized
rates but its overall impact is negligible.
B. The Influence of Climate on Cropping
4.        From May to October, the widest range between mean monthly maximum
and minimum temperatures is 100° to 70' F (38e C to 21e C). At project area
altitudes of 150 to 450 m cold spells do not cause any problems and rainfall
1/   An Economic Survey of three villages in Zaria Province, Samaru
Miscellaneous Paper 37, 1972: D.W. Norman.



AiNEX I
Page 2
is the major factor for limiting crop growth. Monthly and annual data for
Gombe ginnery are given at Table 3. Instead of presenting these in the
traditional manner, they have been arranged in rank order to provide an
estimate to probability First the modal value (half above and half below)
provides a demonstrable 50% probability not normally associated with arith-
metic averages. However, for a basically subsistence agriculture a more
stringent requirement is appropriate and an 80% probability has been chosen.
At this probability rainfall is still quite adequate for crop growth, April
can expect 0.2 inches and October 0.7 inches. Rainfall distribution is
critical to favorable production, and the bumper crop years have always
been associated with seasons with extended rainfall at the beginning and
end of season. Basically the farmer is a pretty busy fellow who has limit-
ed resources for carrying out his land preparation and subsequent cultiva-
tion. Thus eight years out of ten he can expect sufficient rain in April,
and occasionally as early as March, to allow timely cultivations and subsequent
planting operations (see Table 4). If the sequence is broken then late
planting particularly of cotton and sorghum occurs which result in low yields.
Provision of ox drawn equipment should allow for more timely land preparation.
At the end of the season, sometimes in September, and certainly in October,
it is important to conserve soil moisture and reduce water runoff. Thus
water conservation measures such as contour bunding and the development of
better ground cover (including closer planting of groundnuts) are all tech-
niques that should be encouraged. A progressive farmer, if taking such
measures, should have little difficulty in improving his level of output.
C. Farming Systems
5.        Although no detailed surveys have been carried out, field obser-
vations tend to verify estimates based on population and local opinion which
point to a mean farm size approximating 4.0 ha.
Size of Farm Family
6.        The Norman study 1/ reports an average farm family of 8.5.  This
figure is generally agreed to be typical of the project area. Composition of
such a family has been assumed to be as follows:
Small             Large         Female          Male          Total
Child             Child         Adult           Adult       Residents
2.2                1.5           2.6            2.2            8.5
Labor Availability
7.        Labor availability in mandays per day, on the basis of manday
equivalents used by Norman 1/ would be as follows:
1/   op cit.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Small    Large    Female    Male
Child    Child    Adult     Adult      Total
Farm Family                2.2      1.5     2.6        2.2        8.5
Manday Equivalents           -      0.5     0.75       1.0
Available Mandays            -      0.75    1.95       2.20       4.9
In the Zaria study 1/ male adult labor accounted for 89 percent of the total
family labor input; female adult labor was insignificant.  Thus, assuming 50
percent availability of labor from the large child in an average farm family,
daily labor availability would approximate 2.5 mandays.
8.        Labor requirements assessed by Norman 1/ on traditional methods
of cultivation, which imply mixed cropping and low yields, appear to be low
relative to data on similar crops grown under comparable conditions in other
areas. Substantially higher labor requirements have been assumed for pro-
posed project crops as shown in the model crop budgets (Tables 5 through 9).
9.        Adequate labor profiles are not available and, while it appears that
total labor availability (at 2.5 manday equivalents per day) is adequate for
the average small farm there may be seasonal labor shortages, particularly
at planting and weeding periods in some seasons. However, the project would
appeal primarily to the more vigorous and efficient farmers and for this rea-
son, labor availability is not regarded as a serious constraint to develop-
ment.
Cropping Patterns
10.       Intercropping is commonly practiced in a wide range of combinations.
The cropping pattern of an average farm, on the basis of adjusted areas of
sole crops might be as follows (ha):
Sorghum and Other Cereals            1.50
Cotton                               0.90
Groundnuts and Cowpeas               0.41
Others                               0.52
Fallow                               0.67
Total                           4.00
11.       This pattern may be expected to change as a result of the project
which would promote sole cropping and the introduction of improved production
practices for cotton, sorghum, maize, groundnuts and cowpeas, and would result
in changes in areas planted to different crops. Overall farm size would not
be affected by the project, however, the amount of land in fallow each year
is likely to decrease. This decrease in fallow is currently resulting in
marked decline in soil fertility, particularly in areas furthest from the
1/   op cit.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
homesteads which receive no farm yard manure. Some of these deficiencies
would be made up in the short term by supply of fertilizers, and in the long
term through the introduction of pasture. A summary of changes in crorping
patterns follows:
---Current Cropping----    --Projected Cropping Year 5--
Total     Gross    % Cropped    Total      Gross    Z Cropped
Farmers   Area ha      Area      Farmers   Area ha      Area
Cotton
Traditional     56,000    50,400                 36,000      28,800
Improved           700        700                20,000      20,000
Advanced           300        390                 4,000      12,000
57,000    51,490        22       60,000     60,800         26
Sorghum
Traditional     58,000    69,600                 28,000      33,600
Improved             -          -                32,000      24,000
58,000    69,600        30       60,000     57,600         25
Maize
Traditional     15,000      3,750                14,000       3,500
Improved             -          -                21,000      15,750
Advanced             -          -                  3,700      3,700
15,000     3,750         2       38,700     22,950         10
Groundnuts
Traditional     20,000    10,000                   9,000      3,600
Improved             -          -                12,000       9,000
20,000    10,000         4       21,000     12,600          5
Millet               50,000    39,000         17       39,000     39,000         17
Cowpeas              50,000      5,000         2       50,000      6,200          3
Fallow and Other           -    53,160        23                  32,850         14
232,000       100                 232,000       100
12.       The anticipated effect of the project on the five crops selected
for development, viz cotton, sorghum, maize, groundnuts and cowpeas is con-
sidered in subsequent paragraphs. Proposed improved practices are defined,
and their likely impact analyzed in terms of area, numbers of growers and
production on a crop by crop basis.



AMNEX 1
Page c
D. Cotton
Background
13.       Cotton of the improved Allen type (Gossypium hirsuttum) has been
grown in the project area for the past half century. Production fluctuates
widely due to the effects of climate and producer price. The mean level in
recent years approximates 16,000 tons of seed cotton, some 12 percent of mean
total production from the northern States (Table 1), and 70% of Bauchi Province
production.
14.       Seed of improved varieties produced at the Institute of Agricultural
Research (IAR) at Samaru is bulked up at the Daudawa seed multiplication farm
in the North Central State and at a temporary farm presently sited at Dadin
Kowa before distribution to farmers throughout the northern States.
15.       Seed supplies are provided free by the NSMB at a series of dumps
throughout the project area. Seed for planting is treated at the ginnery
against Bacterial Blight (Xanthomonanas malvacearum) which is eivDemic to the
area. Any one of three dressings: mercurial (3 percent) at 1:180; copper
(45 percent) at 1:180; or Bronopal (12 percent) at 1:170, are effective and
may be used.
Variety
16.       The present variety, S72 has been selected to yield highly and to
meet the needs of the textile industry. Under farmers' conditions, yields
average no more that 300 kg of seed cotton per ha, about 12% of the variety's
yield potential. Its main characteristics are shown below:
Ginning percentage                      33  )
Fibre length (32nds of an inch)         39.3)   1" to 1-1/16"
Fibre strength (g per ton)              23.1)
Yarn strength (40's) CSP /1          27766  )
/1   Count Strength Product.
Recommended Production Practices
17.       Research carried out by IAR at Samaru and at outstations has given
rise to a set of recommended practices for the crop. These presuppose a low
level of technical assistance to farmers and do not reflect optimal produc-
tion conditions. More advanced techniques including the use of ultra low



ANNEX 1
Page 6
volume (ULV) spraying for insect control are being tested under farmers'
conditions at several sites in the project area. They are likely to be fully
approved for use on a field scale under the conditions proposed for the
project in the near future.
18.       Land should be ridged on the contour at 0.91 m (3 ft) centers,
and 20-25 cm (8-10 in) high. Ridges should be completed to allow for planting
in mid-June. 6-8 seeds should be sown 2.4 cm (1 in) deep at 45 cm (18 in)
along the top of each ridge. 100 kg single superphosphate should be applied
broadcast before ridging. Three weeks after planting, 100 kg of calcium
ammonium nitrate per ha should be applied close to planting holes. Plants
should be thinned to two per stand about three weeks after planting and
preferably after a good rain, to minimize the effects of root disturbance.
Weeding and ridge maintenance should be undertaken before weed competition
is serious. Normally three weedings are required.
19.       The cotton crop is attacked by a range of pests at different
stages in the growing period.
(a) Period between germination and flowering:
No major pests, Aphis gossypii may occur but seldom
build up to serious proportions. Empoasca spp occur but
as the cotton is bred for jassid resistance no serious
damage is caused.
(b) Period of flowering and boll growth:
Pests of vegetation include the mirid Campylomma which
can be serious, Lygus which is less serious, Sylepta
derogata (F) (the cotton leaf roller), various grass-
hoppers, leaf hoppers, and leaf eating beetles occur in
August and September and are of varying seriousness
depending on the season. Pests of the flowers and bolls
include stainers, mainly Dysdercus superstitiousus (F) but
also D. Fasciatus, and the red bolloworm Diparopsis Watersi
(Roths) which are usually more serious than the American
bollworm h-eliothis artrigera (Hb), the spiny bollworm
E.arias insulana (Boisd) ard Earias biplaga (Wlk), the False
codling i-.,th crv   zr   _eucotreta (Meyr) and the pink
bollworm Pectinopnora gossypiella (Sound).
(c) Pests of bolls after the rains:
Bollworms (particu_ariy the red) and adult stainers
increase until the bolls have matured.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
20.       Ideally insecticidal applications should be timed according to
pest identification in the field. Since spotting of eggs demands considerable
skill and where pest identification may not occur, a precautionary spray
starting at 6 weeks after germination would ensure the protection of the
earlier bolls. Thereafter a succession of sprays would be undertaken and it
is likely that the advanced farmers would repeat the sprayings about 6 - 8
times.
21.       Harvesting should begin in October and be continued at regular
intervals to prevent boll spoilage. Picking should aim to avoid dirt, trash
and stained or damaged lint in order to qualify seed cotton for purchase as
Grade 1. All plants have to be uprooted and burnt by March 1, and no cotton
can be planted until June 1.
Project Proposals
22.       Increased production is expected to derive partly from increased
area planted but mainly from the adoption of new techniques.
23.       Area expansion over the project period is expected to be from
51,000 ha in 1975 to 61,000 ha in 1979, an increase of 4 percent annually.
This would come mainly from natural population growth but there would be
some area redistribution. It is estimated that the average farmer current-
ly grows 0.9 ha of cotton. At the end of the project period those using
"advanced" techniques are expected to handle about an average of 3.0 ha;
those using intermediate techniques an average 1.0 ha; and those continuing
to use traditional methods, 0.8 ha, providing an overall average of 1.00 ha
per 78,000 cotton g-owing farmers.
24.       Adoption of new techniques would be at two levels.  The use of
early planting, sole cropping, fertilizer and ULV spraying for insect control
is described as "advanced."  Such measures would result in yields averaging
1,100 kg seed cotton per ha.  The intermediate grower with more limited
resources would be unlikely to plant near the optimum date and is expected
to use about half of the inputs of the advanced farmer and would average
750 kg/ha.  Currently little or no spraying is carried out due to lack of
supply of inputs and very limited and sparsely located suppliers of water
required for the conventional high volume water based insecticides. During
the last three seasons ultra low volume sprayers (ULV) have been tested
within the project area and have proven successful. They are also being used
in an IDA financed project in Malawi, as well as in other East African coun-
tries with success. In East Africa the option for the use of high volume
sprayers exist; in the project area, due to difficulties in locating good
groundwater any large expansion of production using high volume spraying
techniques is out of the question. During the 1971/72 season in Mozambique
11,000 ha of ULV sprayed cotton averaged 666 kg/ha as against 36,000 ha of
unsprayed cotton averaging 262 kg/ha. The insecticide to be used would be
endosulphan, and would be applied at a rate of 3 liter/ha per spray.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
25.       Majority of farmers plant late and as such even under ideal con-
ditions of management the cotton crop would not yield at optimum levels
since the top bolls would not set. However, in order to assure the setting
of the bottom bolls it is essential that the farmer commences spraying before
the flower buds appear. As a crop insurance this should be at 5 weeks after
germination and continue at 10 day intervals for as much as 6 weeks, but
depending on the likelihood of continued crop production confined almost
entirely to the setting of the bottom bolls. The following table sets out
the proposed levels of technology:
Level of Technology            Traditional  Intermediate         Advanced
Variety                        Improved      Latest S 72         Latest S 72
Plant population/ha            18,000        36,000              48,000
Fertilizer application/ha      Nil           50 kg calcium       100 kg calcium
ammonium nitrate   ammonium nitrate
Nil          50 kg single        100 kg single
superphosphate     superphosphate
Insecticide control/ha         Nil           3-4 sprays ULV      6-8 sprays
insecticide        ULV insecticide
endosulphan        endosulphan
Anticipated yield of
seed cotton kg/ha              300           750                 1,100
Tables 5 and 10 provide per hectare budget, and phasing of uptake of improved
practices.
E. Sorghum
Background
26.       Sharing with bulrush millet, 1/ the role of the traditional grain
staple of the Hausa people, sorghum is grown widely throughout the project
area. White to yeliowisha grained, open headed Guinea race types, known
locally as Farafara, predominate.   -e grain is normally ground to a coarse
flour aad eaten as porridge. The sLalks, which are seldom less than four
1/   Research work to date nas yielced little information on methods for
improving yields of miller, ancL existing varieties do not show economic
responses to fertilizer, therefore the project would not at this stage
take action to improve the procuction of millet.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
meters in height, are used for a variety of purposes of which building and
fencing are among the most important.
27.       Under the traditional system of cultivation, mean yields are said
to approximate 700 kg of threshed grain per ha, but they vary widely in
response to intensity of intercropping, soil and climatic effects. No data
are available on sorghum production in the project area. Nevertheless, it
is safe to conclude that the crop is grown on all holdings, alone or in a
variety of mixtures.
28.       Norman's studies 1/ indicate that sorghum occupied approximately
30% of total area planted and, whilst most commonly grown in a two crop com-
bination with bulrush millet, was also planted alone or with up to four
additional crops. Using this as a basis, it can be calculated that some
70,000 ha of sorghum are planted in the project area which, at an average
yield of 700 kg/ha, would produce some 49,000 tons or about 5% of estimated
production from North Eastern State.
29.       Although its effects have not been quantified, the parasitic weed
Striga hermontheca is probably the most significant pest of sorghum. Others
include a range of stalk borers, but particularly Busseola fusca, and Sorghum
Midge Contarinia sorghicola. Major diseases include Downy Mildew, Sclerospora
sorghi, a variety of leaf diseases causing spotting and striping, and a number
of smut diseases, mainly of the genus Sphacelotheca. The latter are to a
considerable extent controlled by seed dressing with copper fungicides which
are readily available commercially.
30.       As befits a staple grain, sorghum is normally planted on the main
farm in close proximity to the homestead. Prior to planting land is plowed
and ridged by hand hoe or occasionally mechanically, at approximately 0.9
meters between rows and varying distances within rows according to inter-
cropping practices. Sorghum is planted in the project area ir. May/June,
after such crops as early millet. Two or three weedings and earthings-up
are normally carried out. The crop flowers at the onset of the dry season,
in late September/early October, and matures, utilizing residual soil moist-0,
by late November/December.
31.       The stalks are cut near ground level and stacked in the field af.
removal of the heads, which are bundled and stored in mud plastered granaries
(rumbus) in the farm compound. Heads are removed from the granaries as
required for domestic consumption or for sale following threshing. Storage
losses are variable, one estimate is that on average 20% of the crop is lost
in store, and though control rethods involving granary sanitation and the use
of insecticides have been developed, they are not commonly used.
Recommended Practices
32.       Research on sorghum has been carried out in the northern States of
Nigeria for tbe past 23 years.           yiger yielding varieties have been selected
from local types. A number of dwarf varieties and hybrids have also been
1/  op. cit.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
developed. This work has been accompanied by investigations including time
of planting, spacing, and fertilizer responses. Improved local varieties
grown under improved agronomic practices showed yield gains over traditional
types of six to 25 percent (averaging 18.6% or about 240 kg/ha) in over 90
trials planted at different sites in main sorghum production areas up to 1970.
Such increases are of little interest to farmers. The main thrust of sorghum
research is now directed towards production of high yielding dwarf varieties
and hybrids. Materials now available has a yield potential under field
conditions of around 2,500 kg/ha and 4,000 kg/ha from dwarf varieties and
hybrids respectively. The grain from these types is not yet widely acceptable
for human food in rural areas but it can be sold readily in urban areas for
human and livestock food.
Project Proposals
33.       Total sorghum production in Nigeria has been estimated to approximate
four million tons per year, of which between five and ten percent is marketed.
Prices have risen overall in the past three years. However, any major pro-
duction increase could be expected to result in a marked fall in price. This
situation is unlikely to arise in the near future - in the light of the in-
effectiveness of existing extension, input supply and credit services ir the
northern States as a whole. Within the proposed project area, however, there
are good opportunities for promoting some increase in sorghum production,
utilizing available technology and proposed project services, despite the
fact that many farmers are likely to continue to grow at least some local
sorghum under traditional cultivation methods. In addition to the switch
from traditional to improved varieties of sorghum that is envisaged, it is
also believed that a substantial amount of land which in the past has been
used to grow sorghum will, under the project, be used for maize, see para. 38.
34.       One level of improved technology has been assumed, based upon
results from field trials and research recommendations.
Level of Technology                 Traditional             Improved
Variety                          Local                  Dwarf
Plant Population/ha              19,200                 34,800
Fertilizer application
in kg/ha                         Nil                    100 kg of calcium
ammonium nitrate + 100
kg single superphosphate
Anticipated yield of
threshed grain (kg/ha)           ,00                    1,400



ANNEX 1
Page 11
35.       In addition to the major elements indicated, farmers would be
advised on field preparation, planting methods and other improved practices
by project extension staff. Tables 6 and 11 provide details of per hectare
budget and production projections.
F. Maize
Background
36.       Although well known, maize is presently a minor crop in the project
area. Cultivated mainly in crop mixtures on swampy areas (fadamas) primarily
as a vegetable for eating green - boiled or baked on the cob - it is unlikely
that total area exceeds 4,000 ha.
37.       High yielding, short season maize varieties and hybrids have been
developed recently by IAR and other researchers in the northern States.
Their promising performance under Northern Guinea zone conditions have created
marked interest in maize as a grain crop for the area. Trials at Daudawa,
North Central State, under different levels of plant population and fertilizer
rates using variety (096) Bulk 3 gave yields ranging from 2,000 to over 7,000
kg/ha of threshed grain depending on the level of treatments applied. Responses
under farmers' conditions in the North Central State in 1969/71 ranged from
1,400 through 2,400 to 4,000 kg/ha using comparable treatments. Planting
material with further improved yield potential is in course of development
and is likely to be available for multiplication and distribution to farmers
within two years.
Project Proposals
38.       These facts and the observation that the yellow grained varieties
produce meal which is an acceptable (some say a preferred) substitute for
sorghum meal in traditional porridge in North Eastern State, indicate that
the probability that the maize area and production could be increased markeAlv
under the project. Recent trends in maize prices, the burgeoning urban
population in the southern States, and the increasing demand for livestock
feeds and for industrial maize products provide further justification for
maize promotion under the project. Probable area increases are expected to
be at the expense of sorghum and millet, and would occur mainly on the farmns
of more progressive farmers. An expected increase in maize area from 4,000
to 23,000 ha of which 3,500 ha would be grown at the advanced levels on plots
averaging 1 ha, 16,000 ha (70 percent) would be grown under intermediate
technology on 0.75 ha plots and 3,500 ha (15 percent) would be grown under
traditional systems on 0.25 ha plots. About 39,000 farmers are expected to
grow maize within the project (Table 7 shows per hectare budget).



ANNEX 1
Page 12
39.       Levels of technology selected for application in the project area
have been based on field trials and practices advocated by workers at the
IAR. They are summarized in the following table.
Levels of Technology        Traditional   Intermediate            Advanced
Variety /1             Local          Composite             Composite
Plant population/ha   19,200          34,800                48,000
Fertilizer (kg/ha)    Nil             100 kg of calcium    300 kg of calcium
ammonium nitrate +   ammonium nitrate +
150 kg of single      200 kg single super-
superphosphate        phosphate + 50 kg
Muriate of Potash +
trace elements
Borer control kg/ha   Nil             Nil                    6 kg 5% DDT granules
Projected yield of
shelled grain in
kg/ha                  800            1,500                  3,000
/1   Presently recommended varieties such as 096 (Bulk 3) and hybrids of Biu
Yellow (BY) with other parents, such as BY x C-20, may well be superseded
by 1974.
G. Groundnuts
Background
40.       Groundnuts (Arachis hypogeas) are grown throughout the project area
but are of greatest commercial importance in drier, northern locations which
are cliniatically less well suited to cotton production. Production levels
m_v be inferred from purchases by the NSMB which have averaged about 5,000
tons annually in recent years (Table 2).
41.       The Nigerian groundnut crop is grown primarily for oil and average
kernels contain about 47Z oil with a Free Fatty Acid (FFA) content of 2 to
3 percent. Yields of groundnuts grown under traditional systems, which
include multiple intercropping, wide spacing and late planting, vary con-
siderably but are probably of the order of 500 kg/ha of shelled nuts. At
this yield level and accepting the above production assumption, area planted,
on a sole crop basis is about 10,000 ha. The high labor requirement and
the present comparatively unattractive returns from the crop probably limit
groundnut plot sizes to about 0.5 ha on farms which grow the crop for sale
to the NSMB.



ANNEX 1
Page 13
42.       A long series of agronomic trials and a number of selection and
breeding programs by staff of the IAR have resulted in the formulation of a
package of recommended practices for groundnut production. These regularly
lead to a doubling of kernel yields over traditional practices. More
advanced technology, including the use of fungicidal sprays to control
cercospora leaf spot disease is still under investigation and may be avail-
able for dissemination in the near future. However, a number of questions
still attach to the technical and economic viability of certain advanced
techniques.
43.       For these reasons, only one level of improved technology has been
suggested. This approximates to the practices recommended by ERLS. The
practices proposed, which are outlined below, would be fostered by the
provision of a physical package of inputs including seed, seed dressing,
fertilizer and advice. This would follow the lines of a successful ground-
nut seed production project in neighboring Kano State.
44.       The proposed level of improved technology would incorporate timely
planting, i.e., shortly after the first rains, on land which has been prepared
as for cotton (para 18). Fertilizer, single superphosphate at 75 kg per ha,
should be applied as a band in the old furrows before splitting to make
new ridges. Seed would be of the variety S61 which should be shelled shortly
before planting and dressed) with Aldran T or Fernasan D against seed and soil
borne diseases. Seed should be planted at two every 23 cm (9 in) on the top
of the ridges i.e., a seed rate of 40 kg/ha. By so doing, the foliar cover
achieved would be invaluable in preventing run off during the heavy rainfall
in August. Furthermore, after the early weeding and earthing, such ground
cover would reduce the frequency of weeding which must cease once pegging 1/
starts. Harvesting should begin immediately the crop reaches maturity. Pod
damage should be avoided by careful lifting. The crop should be dried by
inverting plants on the ridge i.e., with pods uppermost for about six days.
Thereafter the pods should be handpicked and transported to an appropriate
site for decortication. Care is needed, particularly in lifting, drying and
picking to avoid the creation of conditions favoring the development of the
fungus Aspergillus flavus, responsible for the carcinogen, aflatoxin, which
has been transmitted on mouldy groundnuts.
Project Proposals
45.       The improved groundnut technology proposed for the project is already
well established. Its rate of spread has been limited largely by the in-
adequacy of technical assistance and input supply services. For these reasons,
the rate of uptake under the project is expected to be rapid. By Year 5 (1979),
some 12,000 farmers are expected to be using the improved technology.
1/   Shoots which eventually bear the groundnut turn down into the Boil prior
to pod formation.



ANNEX 1
Page 14
Level of technology               Traditional              Improved
Variety                      Local                    IAR selected
Plant population/ha          27,000                   48,000
Fertilizer                   -                        75 kg/ha of single
superphosphate
Projected yield kernels
kg/ha                        500                      1,000
Details on crop budget and production projections are shown at Tables 8 and 13.
H.  Cowpeas
Background
46.       Cowpeas (vigna unguiculata) occupy an important place in traditional
Nigerian diets both in the North and South.  They provide valuable vegetable
protein for subsistence farmers and some cash income when surplus production
is sold. The crop is seldom planted sole and normally forms one part of a
number of crop mixtures of varying complexity. Under these circumstances
yields vary widely. Further, because of the range of insect pests to which
it is susceptible both before and after flowering, yields rarely average more
than 200 kg/ha of shelled peas. Local varieties have both upright and spread-
ing characteristics; those producing a pale (whitish) colored seed are preferred.
47.       Research on the crop has isolated major insect pests and established
the importance of their control for increased production. Major pests include
Ootheca mutabilis, a leaf eating beetle, Alcidodes leucogrammus, a weevil
which, in both the adult and larval forms, causes stem girdling, Maruca
testulalis, the larva of which bore into and feed on young flowers causing
them to drop, Rezotrachelus varium, a weevil which lays its eggs in green pods
wherein the larvae feed and pupate within the seeds. Further, a number of bugs
in the order Hemiptera feed on green pods causing premature drying and shri-
velling.
48.       Tlmproved Practices, including so'le cropping, the use of improved
upright varieties, phosphatic fert_lizer a-d insecticidal spraying result in
ten fold yield increases over tracitional yields. The latter treatment on
sole cropped cowpeas is th.e mnost s4ignificant.  Present recommendations are
for six weekly sprays containing 20 oercent DDT and two percent gamma BHC at
the rate of 5.5 liters of concentrate mixed in 109 liters of water per ha.
This recommendation is under review following investigation of ULV techniques.



ANNEX 1
Page 15
Project Proposals
49.       No data are available on the area presently planted with cowpeas
but it is unlikely that the crop is grown widely in sold stand. The project
would introduce cowpeas as a sole crop to those farmers who wished to grow
cotton using improved and advanced techniques since such farmers would already
own ULV sprayers and be competent in their use. It is not expected that large
plots would be planted, and a mean size of 0.25 ha has been assumed.
50.       One level of technology is proposed.  Its main element is summarized
below and is compared with the traditional system.
Traditional          Improved
Cropping                       Mixed                Sole
Variety                        Local                Local
Type                           Upright or           Upright
spreading
Spacing                        Variable             30 cm x 2.5 cm
Fertilizer                     Nil                  50 kg single
superphosphate/ha
Insect control                 Nil                  ULV spraying as
recommended by IAR
Average yield                  200                  700
shelled peas (kg/ha)
51.       It is expected that uptake of improved technology would closely
follow cotton development since materials, equipment and techniques for
spraying cowpeas approximate those used for cotton, and the benefits are
considerable. For these reasons it is expected that most farmers with one
season's experience of spraying cotton would also grow cowpeas with project
advice and assistance. Furthermore, a small proportion could be expected
to introduce improved technology to their cotton and cowpea crops simul-
taneously (for detailed budget and crop projections see Tables 10 and 15).
I.  Summary
52.       Absence of basic data on actual farming systems, let alone the
profitability from individual crops, severely hampers assessment of project
effects on a farm family income and therefore no attempt has been made to



ANNEX 1
Page 16
formulate model farm budgets for before and after farm development, since
they would be purely hypothetical and as such could lead to wrong conclusions.
Instead comparative data on a per hectare basis is shown in the following
tables.
Level of Technology                  Traditional      Intermediate        Advanced
--------------- N A I R A ----------------
Niet Return/ha - (with
all Labor Costed)
Cotton                           36.70             72.23              107.41
Groundnuts                        8.90             26.62                 -
Sorghum                         27.40              62.08                 -
Maize                           27.25              51.51              134.43
Cowpeas                          (9.50)            (1.35)                -
Net Return/ha - (All
Labor Costs Excluded)
Cotton                          59.90             112.63              157.01
Groundnuts                      44.90              79.42                 -
Sorghum                         61.40             102.48                 -
Maize                           67.25              98.71              189.23
Cowpeas                         16.50              31.05                 -
Level of Technology                  Traditional    Intermediate          Advanced
-------------N/Manday------------------
Net Return to Labor
Cotton                            1.03              1.12                1.27
Groundnuts                       0.50               0.60                 -
Sorghum                           0.72              1.01                 -
Maize                             0.67              0.84                1.38
Cowpeas                          0.25               0.38
Net Incremental Return to
Incremental Labor Requirements
Cotton                                              1.23                1.47
Groundnuts                                          0.82                 -
Sorghum                                             2.57                 -
MIaize                                              1.75                3.29
Cowpeas                                             0.91



ANNEX 1
Table 1
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPENT PROJECT
Seed Cotton Purchases by the Northern States 1iarketing Board by Years (long tons) 1/
'000 tons
Year                         Northern States        Bauchi Province
1960/61                           149.0                   27.0
1961/62                            83.4                  19.0
1962/63                           144.0                   20.6
1963/6h                           128.6                   20.3
1964/65                           128.7                   31.6
1965/66                           127.3                   24.0
1966/67                           146.h                   31.1
1967/68                            75.5                   19.8
1968/69                           166.3                   34.8
1969/70                           271.6                   54.5
1970/71                          111.4                    25.4
1971/72                          108.6                    25.6
1972/73                          142.6                    28.8
Mean                              137.1                   27.9
Mean as % Northern States         100.0                   20.3
Project area about 16,000 tons or 12% total
1/ Derived from the National Agricultural Development Committee, Report of the
Study Group on Cotton and other Fibers, Lagos 1971.



ANNEX 1
Table 2
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Groundnut Purchases by the Northern States Marketing Board by Years (long tons) 1/
Northern              Bauchi
Year                               States                 Province
1960/61                             619,051                 27,118
1961/62                             687,987                 45,127
1962/63                             870,795                 50,417
1963/64                             802,500                 47,358
1964/65                             675,9884                30,,488
1965/66                             921,358                 42,686
1966/67                           1,o53,668                 61,008
1967/68                             665,372                 48,*415
1968/69                             753,626                 82,822
1969/70                             633,782                 86,525
1970/71                             280,173                 33,593
Mean                                724,018                 50s505
Mean as % of northern
States purchases                        100                      7
1/ Derived from National Agricultural Development Co.mittee, Report of
the Study Group on Groundnuts, Lagos 1971.



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rank Order of Monthly Rainfall at Gombe Ginnery
22 Years
(Annual Modal 35 inches - 889 mm)
Probability       Jan.      Feb.      March      April      May      June      July      Aug.       Sept.     Oct.      Nov.      Dec.               Annual
1.00        .05            0         0          0          0        1.44      1.78      3.73    5.34        5.00    0.12          0         0                  26.95
0.95        .09            0         0          0          0        1.60      2.22      4.71    5.45        5.15    0.20          0         0                  28.52
0.91        .14            0         0          0          0        1.69      2.79      4.95    5.99        5.20    0.48          0         0                  29.75
0.86        .18            0         0          0          0.23    1.89       3.37      5.44    7.03        5.47    0.66          0         0                  30.44
0.82        .23            0         0          0          0.91    2.03       3.59      5.76    7.48        5.50    0.67          0         0                  33.46
0.77        .27            0         0          0          1.12    2.12       3.81      6.13    8.04        5.70    0.67          0         0                  33.57
0.73        .32            0         0          0          1.29    2.19       3.98      6.24    8.49        5.75    0.67          0         0                  34.11
0.68        .36            0         0          0          1.52    2.37       4.13      6.84    8.55        6.02    0.79          0         0                  36.42
0.64        .41            0         0          0          1.59    2.88       4.45      7.69    8.91        6.17    0.99          0         0                  37.22
0.59        .45            0         0          0          1.81    3.19       4.62      7.81    8.98        6.39      1.00        0         0                  37.83
0.55        .50            o         0          0          1.83    3.19       4.76      8.10    9.04        6.70    1.02          0         0                  38.38
0.50        .54             0         0         0          1.89    3.21       4.77      8.21    9.31        6.80    1.17          0         0                  38.91
0.45        .59            0          0         0          1.94    3.80       5.17      8.23    9.79        6.97    1.19          0         0                  38.91
0.41        .64            0         O          0          2.00    3.85       5.18      8.25   10.41         7.05    1.39         0         0                  38.94
0.36        .68             0         0         0          2.14    4.25       5.26      8.42   10.54        7.34    1.63          0         0                  41.14
0.32        .73             0         0         0          2.24    5.05       5.39      8.73   11.20        8.53    2.77          0         0                  41.68
0.27        .77             0         0         0          2.25    5.36       5.39      9.35   12.71        8.86    3.57          0         0                   42.48
0.23        .82             0         0         0.21       2.65    5.49       6.99      9.56   12.72         9.44    3.66         0         0                  45.99
0.18        .86             0         0         0.25       2.66    6.05       7.19      9.63   13.03       10.71    3.79          0         0                   46.03
0.14        .91             0         0         0.53       3.15    6.19       7.69      9.77   13.21       10.94    4.63          0         0                   50.32
0.09        .95             0         0         0.77       3.83    7.03       8.43    10.19   13.46        13.00    4.94          0         0                   58.05
0.05       1.00             0         0         0.98       4.37    9.88       8.61     16.10   15.61        18.59    0            0         0
Arithmetic Means:
Inches  =                          0.12        1.79    3.85       4.98      7.90    9.78        7.78      1.71
mId                                 3           45       98       126       201      248         198       43
50%         Inches                              0          1.86    3.20       4.76      8.15    9.17         6.75    1.10
mm                                  0           47       81       121       207      233         171       28
8%         Inches                              0          0.57    1.96       3.48      5.60    7.25         5.48    0.66
mm                                  0           14       50        88       142      184         139       17                                            U H



ANNtEX 1
Table 46
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RAINFALL EXPECTATION FOR GOMBE (C.A.P. Ginnery)
Based on 22 Years
SUCCESSION OF CROP PLANTING, MATURATION AND TIME TO HARJESTING
___ GUINEA CORN--- -
[-        _ - -GROUNCNUTS
CHES/MONTH                                          MAIZE                            M.M./MONTH
10 _                                        --COTTO N--                                 254
8 -203
6                                                                                      152
4  -102
2                                                                                      51
0                                                                                      0
APRIL     MAY       JUNE       JULY    AUGUST  SEPTEMBER  OCTOBER
F] 50 Percent Probability
80 Percent Probability
World Bank-8468



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One Hectare Cotton Budget N
--------------- Actual-nr--n-------------     -t ---al ------
I              II             III                  II                III
Farm Category
Yield seed cotton (kg/ha)                300              750           1,100                L50                800
Gross return at N O.?Y/'-Ug               60. 9,0         1 52. 2         223.3C               91 .35           162.4.0
Expenditure
Labor 2/
Cultivations                      (53)    21.20    (53)   21.20   (53)   21.20        ( -)              ( -)      -
Fertilizer application                      -       ( 8)    3.20   (12)    4.80       ( 8)      3.20    (12)      4.80
Spraying                                    -       ( 2)    0.80   ( 4)    1.60       ( 2)      0.80    ( 4)      1.60
Harvesting (20 kg/manday)         ( 5)     2.00    (38)   15.20   (55)   22.00        (33)    13.20    (50)    20.00
Sub-total                   (58)    23.20   (101)   404.0  (124)   49.60         (43)    17.20    (66)    26.40
Crop Inputs  21
Tools                                      1':100-          l.OO            l.OO-0>2
Fertilizer: N L/                                            5.1s2 41.8i                         5.2aC.
P205                           -01 5.0                         IOl                                   U.0 I.C,
Insecticide   67                            -              1 .20           32.40               16.20             32.40
Sprayer  7.!                                                9.05            9.05                9.05              9.05
Battery Set                                                 2.90           .2.90                2.90              2.90
Sub-total                            1.00            39.t2           66.29               38.62             65.29
Total Expenditure                   24.20            W.02           li5.6f              >5.02              91.6u
Net Return
With labor                                 36.70            ;  * K         l17.4L              35.53             70.71
Without labor                               9.)o           'L. _           157.01              52.7s             97.11
Per manday                                  1.0 l3                            1,27              1.2,              1.L7
1/  Cat, I = traditional with no improved inputs; Cat. II = use of fertilizer and insecticides at ½ the level of
Cat. III farmers.
2/  Labor costed at shadow wage rate for family and paid labor at N 0.4 per manday (6 hrs) - ( ) indicate number of mandays.
3/  Crop input costs include interest rate at 10% in Cat. II and III except for tools.
T/ Nitrogenous fertilizer costed as calcium ammonium nitrate Cat. III rate 100 kg/ha @ a subsidised cost of N 103.U/l to:l-
I/  Phosphatic fertilizer costed as single superphosphate Cat. III rate 100 kg/ha at a subsidi7ed cost cf  4 lU1.0/, -a.
6/  Cat. III rate 18 liters (endosulphan) per hectare at i 1.8 per liter.
J   Sprayer, gloves etc. - average life 2 years, costed over 2 years including interest at N 9.05 per annum.
A t , t1 S ' S - . C                                                                                C~~~~~~~F



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One Hectare Sorghum Budget N
---------- Actual -----------              --Incremental--
I                  II                        II
Fanmer Category /
Yield threshed grain (kg/ha)                    700                 1,400                     700
Gross return at N 0.090/kg                       63.00                126.00                   63.00
Expenditure
Labor i/
Cultivation                            (73)      29.20        (80)     32.00          7)        2.80
Fertilizer application                 (- )       -           ( 5)      2.00          5)        2.00
Harvesting                             (12)       4.80        (16)      6.40          4)        1.60
Sub-total                         (85)      34.00       (101)     404.0        (16)        6.40
Crop Inputs /
Tools                                             1.00                  1.00
Seed                                              0 0.60                1.58                    0.98
Fertilizer:  N  5/                                                     lO.Oh                    0.81
P205 i'.-                                                 10.10                   10.10
Sub-total                                    1.60                 23.52                   21.92
Total Expenditure                           35.60                 63.92                   28.32
Net Returns
With labor                                        27.4o                62.08                   34.68
Without labor                                     61.40               102.48                   41.08
Per manday                                         0.72                 1.01                    2.57
1  Cat. I - traditional with no improved inputs; Cat. II   intermediate using fertilizer and improved dwarf sorghum
from local varieties.
/ Labor costed at shadow wage rate for family and hired labor @ N 0.4 per manday (6 hrs) - ( ) indicates No. of mandays.
y Includes interest rates at 10% in Cat. II except for tools.
Cat. II seed 12 kg/ha @ N 0.132/kg.
Calcium ammonium nitrate Cat. II 100 kg/ha subsidised cost N 108.4/m ton.
6  Single superphosphate Cat. II 100 kg/ha subsidised cost N 101.0/m ton.
August 26, 1971i T h



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One Hectare Maize Budget   N
------------------Actual -------------__             ---------Incremental----------
I               II                III                  II                 III
Farmer Category 1/
Yield shelled grain kg/ha                 800              1,500             3,000                700                2,200
Gross return @ N 0.086/kg)                 68.80             129.00            258.00               60.20              189.20
Expenditure
Labor 2/
Cultivation                         (84)   33.60    (go)      36.oo    (95)    38.00    ( 6)        2.40    (11)         4.40
Fertilizer application                        -      ( 5)      2.00    (12)      4.80    ( 5)       2.00    (12)         4.80
Harvesting                          (16)    6.40   (23)        9.20    (30)    12.00    ( 7)         2.80    (14)        5.60
Sub-total                      (100)  40.00  (118)        47.20   (137)    54.80    (18)        7.20    (37)        14.80
Crop Inputs  2/
Tools                                       1.00               1.00              1.00                 -                  -
Seeds  .L                                   0.55                3.30              6.60               2.75                6.05
Fertilizer:  N   /                                            10.84              32.52              10.84               32.52
P205  6/                                         15.15             20.20              15.15               20.20
K,0   7/                                           -                6.29                _                  6.29
Stork borer control   8/                     -                  -                2.16                 -                  2.16
Sub-total                               1.55              30.29             68.77               28.74               67.22
Total Expenditures                     41.55               77.49           123.57               35.94               82.02
Net Returns
With labor                                  27.25              51.51            134.43              24.26              107.18
Without labor                               67.25              98.71            189.23              31.46              121.96
Per manday                                   o.67               U.04Z             1.38              -175                  3.29
y Cat. I = traditional with no improved inputs; Cat. II intermediate using improved composite seeds and medium level
of fertilizer; Cat. III composite or hybrid seed, higher fertilizer inputs and borer control.
2/  Labor costed at shadow rate for family and hired labor © N 0.4 per manday (6 ha/day) - ( ) indicates No. of mandays.
3/ Includes interest rates of 10% on all items except for tools in Cat. II and III.
Cat. II 25 kg/ha of composite; Cat. III 25 kg/ha of composite or hybrid.
Cat. II 100 kg of calcium ammonium nitrate/ha; Cat. III 300 kg calcium ammonium nitrate/ha at a subsidized cost of  
N 100.4 per m ton.
6/  Cat. II 150 kg of single superphosphate/ha; Cat. III 200 kg of single superphosphate/ha at a subsidized cost of
N 101.0 per m ton.
7/ Cat. III 50 kg of muriate of potash/ha - unsubsidised at N125.8 per m ton.
Cat. III 6 kg/ha 5% DDT granules at N 0.36 per kg.
August 26, 1974



ANNEX 1
Table u
NIGERRA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PRDJECT
One Hectare Groundnut Budget
--Actual----------              -  ----Incremental------
V                        I                 II                    II
Farmer Category
Yield shelled kernels kg/ha              500               1,000                  500
Gross return § .N 0.093/kg                46.50                93.00               h6.50
Expenditure 21
Labor:  Cultivations          (45)    18.00       (65)     26.00    (20)         8.00
Fertilizer applica-
tion                           -         ( 2)       0.80    ( 2)        0.80
Harvesting            (45)    18.00      (65)      26.00    (20)        8.00
Sub-total                 (90)    36.00    (132)       52.80    (42)       16.80
Crop Inputs: 3/
Seed                            1.60                6.oo                4.40
Fertilizer P205                                     7.58                7.58
Sub-total                           1.60               13.58                11.98
TOTAL:                          37.60                62.66               25.o6
Net Returns
With labor                                  8.90               26.62               17.72
Without labor                             44.90                79.42               3L.52
Per manday                                 0.50                 o.60                0.82
V   Category I farmer - traditional grower; Category II farmer - improved utilizing
a package of seeds and fertilizer.
21 Labor costed at shadow rate for family and hired labor @ N 0.4/manday (6 hr dayX - ( )
indicates number of mandays.
y Includes lO% interest charge for Category II.
IV 40 kg per hectare of improved seed cost N 0.15/kg - dressed.
/  75 kg of single superphosphate per ha @ a subsidized cost of N :LO1.o per n ton.
August 26, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
One Hectare Cowpea Budlet I
----      Actual-----                   -----Incremental------
2/                          I                     II                        II
Farmer Category
Yield shelled cowpeas kg/ha                  200                    700                      500
Gross return at N 0.09/kg                     18.00                  63.00                    5.00
Expenditure
Labor 2
Cultivation                        (49)       19.60       (54)       21.60         ( 5)        2.00
Fertilizer application                          -         ( 2)        0.80         ( 2)        0.80
Spraying                                        -         ( 2)         0.80        ( 2)        0.80
Harvesting                         (16)        6.40       (23)        9.20         ( 7)        2.80
Sub-total                    (65)        26.00       (81)       32.40         (16)        6.40
Crop InPuts  2/
Tools                                          1.00                    1.00                    -
Seeds   /                                      0.50                    1.62                    1.12
Fertilizer,                                     -                      5.°5                    5.05
Insecticide   /                                                       21.38                   21.38
Battery sets                                                           2.90                    2.90
Sub-total                                  1.50                   31.95                   30.45
Total                                     27.50                   64.35                   36.85
Net Returns
With labor                                     (9-50)                 (1.35)                    8.i5
Without labor                                 16.50                   31.05                   14.55
Per manday                                     0.25                    0.38                    0.91
2/  Cat. I traditional growers; Cat. II is an improved cotton grower who uses his sprayer to spray cowpeas
also uses fertilizer.
2/  Labor costed at shadow rate for family and hired labor @ N 0.4/manday (6 hr day) - ( ) No. mandays.
Inolude  10% interest for all inputs except for tools for Cat. II farmers.
Local seed at 18 kg/ha @ N 0.09 per ha.
50 kg/ha single superphosphate at subsidized cost of N 101.0 per m ton.
4 sprays using ULV equipment for cotton.
August 26, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seed Cotton Production Po.Jections
BEFORE THE
PROJECT       YEAR 1        YEAR 2       YEAR 3        YEAR h           YEAR 5
GROWERS
Traditional             56,ooo         56,1400       54,500        52,000         45,000          36,000
Intermediate                700          1,200        3,000         6,ooo        12,000           20,000
Advanced                    300            400          500          1,000         2.000           4.000
57,000         58,000       58,000         59,000        59,000          60,000
AREA (HECTARES)
Traditional              50,400         50,760        499,050       44,200        38,250          28,800
Intermediate                700          1,200        3,000          6,ooo        12,000          20,000
Advanced                    390            800         1.250         3,000         6.ooo          12,000
51,490        52,760        53,300         53,200        56,250          60,800
PRODUCTION (Metric Tons)
Traditional              15,120         15,228        14,715        13,360        11,475           8,640
Intermediate                525            840         2,250         4,500         9,000          15,000
Advanced                    390            880         1.261         3.300         6.600          13.200
16,035         16,948        18,226        21,160        27,075          36,840
Average yield kg/ha         311           321            342           398           481             606



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sorghum Production Projections
BEFORE THE
PROJECT      YEAR 1        YEAR 2        YEAR 3        YEAR 4           YEAR 5
GROWERS
Traditional            58,ooo        58,000         52,000        45,OOO        35,000          28,000
Improved                 -              -            6.000        14.000        24.000          32.000
58,000        58,ooo        58,ooo        59,000         59,ooo          60,000
AREA (HECTARES)
Traditional            69,600         69,600        62,400        54.,ooo       42,o0o          33,600
Improved                                -            4,500        10,500        18,000          24,000
69,600        69,600         66,900        64,500        60,000          57,600
PRODUWCTION (metric Tons)
Traditional            48,720         48,720        43,680        37,800        29,400          23,520
Improved                 -              -            6.300        14.700        25,200          33.600
48,720         48,720        49,980        52,500        54,600          57,120
Average Yield kg/ha       700            700           747           814           910             992
Is,
HH1



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPET PROJECT
Maize Production Projections
BEFORE THE
PROJECT     YEAR 1        YEAR 2       YEAR 3        YEAR 4          YEAR 5
GROWERS
Traditional             15,000         15,000       17,800        17,500        14,000         l1,OOO
Intermediate              -              -           1,000         6,ooo        13,000          21,000
Advanced                  -              -             200           500         2.000           3.700
15,000        15,000        19,000        24,000       29,000          38,700
AREA (HECTARES)
Traditional              3,750          3,750        4,450         4,375         3,500           3,500
Intermediate              -                            750         4,500         9,750          15,750
Advanced                  -              -              200          500         2.000           3,700
3,750         3,750         5,400         9,375       15,250          22,950
PRODUCTION (Metric Tons)
Traditional              3,000          3,000        3,560         3,500         2,800           2,800
Intermediate              -              -           1,125         6,750        14,625          23,625
Advanced                  -              -              600        1.500         6.ooo          ll.loo
3,000         3,000         5,285        11,750        23,425         37,525
Average Yield
m ton/ha                  o.80           o.80         1.0           1.3           1.5            1.6
Il!



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Groundnut Production Projections - Kernels
BEFORE THE
GROWERS                   PROJECT          YEAR 1      YEAR 2         YEAR 3         YEAR 4           IEAR 5
Traditional             20,000           20,000     18,500         17,000         13,000             9,000
Improved                  -500                       2.000          1ooQ0_ 8.000                    12.000
20,000          20,500     20,500         21,000         21,000            21,000
AREA ( HiECTAIRES)
Traditional            O1,000            lO,OOO      9,250          7,650          5,200             3,600
Improved                                    375      1.500          3.000          6.000             9000
lO,OOO          10,375     10,750         1.0,650        11,200            12,600
PRODUCTION (Metric Tons)
Traditional              5,000            5,000      4p625          3,825           2,600            1,800
Improved                  -                 375      1,500          3.000          6.000             9.000
5,000           5,375       6,125         6,825           8,600           10,800
AVERAGE YIELD kg/ha          500              518        570            641             768              857
CIM
HI



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cow Pea Production Pro.jections
BEFO1RE THE
PROJECT       YEAR 1    YEAR 2         YEAR 3         YEAR 4            YEAR 5
GROWERS
Traditional            50,000          49,000     48,000        46,ooo         44,0o0            42,000
Improved                 -              1,000      2,000         4,000          6,ooo             8,000
50,000         50,000     50,000        50,000         50,000            50,000
AREA ( HECTARE)
Traditional             5,000           4,900      4,800         4,600          4,400             4,200
Improved                 -                250        500         1,000          1,500             2.000
5,000          5,150      5,300         5,600          5,900             67,00
PRODUCTION (Metric Tons)
Traditional             1,000             980        960           920            880               840
Improved                 -                175        350           644          1,050             1.400
1,000          1,155      1,310         1,564          1,930             2,240
YIELD kg/ha                 200             224        247           279            327               361
IEl 



ANNEX 2
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Project Area, Institutions and Existing Processing and Marketing
A.   Project Area
1.        Bordered by the Gongola river on its north eastern side, and by
the Kaltungo Hills to the south, the project area lies between latitudes
9*45' and 10030' N, and longitudes 10°45' and 12°00' E. It extends to about
5,300 km2 or some two percent of the total area of North Eastern State. The
project area covers Ako, Yamalut and Gombe districts in Gombe emirate, West
Tangale district and the plains in the north of Waja and Kaltungo districts
in the Tangale Waja Federated Local Authority area. Gombe town in the
north of the project area is the headquarters of the Gombe Administrative
Division. Map shows location of the proposed project within Nigeria.
Climate
2.        Annual rainfall, confined almost entirely to the 7 months April
through October, is of the order of 900 mm (35 ins) with a 75 percent pro-
bability of obtaining 825 mm. Between November and March, there is virtually
no rain; this long, dry season is rendered very harsh by hot dry north-
easterly "harmattan" winds blowing from the Sahara.
3.        Beginning in April, when there is a 50 percent chance of obtaining
45 mm of rain (1.8 in), through September which has a 50 percent probability
of more than 168 mm (6.7 in), rainfall distribution is well suited to a
range of annual crops. However, due to limitations in timely land prepara-
tions and to a labor bottleneck at planting time, few farmers can plant all
their crops at the optimum time. Food crops are given priority over cash
crops, and the success of the latter is dependent on the farmer's residual
input resources, and because they are plar,ted late, on the vagaries of
climate. Gombe is more fortunate than some other parts of the Northern
States in that it is assured of some rainfall in April and October. In
particular the April rainfall allows for more time for planting of food
crops and hence the higher yields of cotton currently attained.
Water
4.        There are few perennial streams in the area, and groundwater
supplies are severely limited by the presence of the impervious underlying
basement complex.  With increasing pressure on land, the flow period of
streams has diminished markedly.  Wells comfnonly fail during the dry months,



ANNEX 2
Page 2
leading to prolonged water shortages which are becoming an increasingly
critical issue for both human and livestock populations. Fortunately, topo-
graphy is such that construction of small reservoirs appears a practicable
solution to the water problem.
Topography and Soils
5.        The area is underlain largely by sandstones of the Cretaceous period
with some tertiary sandstones to the west. The land form changes from rolling
plateaux in the west to undulating sandstone and clay plains in the east.
Altitudes range from 450 m in the west and south to 150 m in the east. A
number of small, ephemeral streams occur throughout the area, pointing to its
suitability for the proposed program of small reservoir construction.
6.        Soils vary widely from very deep red sandy loams in the west through
sandy to sandy clay loams to cracking clays derived from Cretaceous shales in
the east. The soils of the area are complex. The sandy soils have been
classified generally as leached ferruginous tropical soils generally without
iron concretions. The cracking clays are lithomorphic yertisols (known in
many parts of Africa as 'black cotton soils'). Drainage on these soils is
moderate to poor and they require careful management to maximize their
considerable crop production potential.
7.        Because the sandy soils are less difficvlt to cultivate with un-
sophisticated equipment much of the area of these soils has in fact been
overcropped and is probably low in organic matters. Fertilizer responses
at low application rates have been established for major crops on such soils,
but information concerning higher levels is not yet available. Nor is it
certain that the very high rates would provide economic returns. Less is
known about fertilizer responses on the cracking clays; however field trials
are underway on similar soils near Numan to the south east of the project
area. They should provide relevant information for refining fertilizer
recommendations for these soils.
Vegetation
S.       NNatural vegetatior ranges from savanna woodland typified by
Anogeissus and Combreturn spp or the sands and sandy loams to Acacia seyal
and A.  nolycantha savanna w.)od and on the heavier soils.  Grassland associa-
tions are dominated 7-m P&AnI  I.r -eicallatum and Loudetia togoenis in the
wesc and south, ;'serol1Ant  '!         .sAuta associations in the east.
Farm crees, suc._ a_    ?afkia clappertoniana, and Acacia
a2.hida on the light er sol>        banec hy occasional stands of Balanites
aegytiaca and Zizpphus mucrona,i-- -  tt  cracking clays to the east of the
area.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Land Use Capability
9.        According to Land Resource Study No. 9, 1/ the project area is
composed largely of land in Classes II and III with patches of Classes IV
and V confined mainly to the western quarter. The classification is related
to that used by the USDA and is biased towards mechanization. However, it
indicates clearly the project area is well suited to hand or ox farming,
and that, given attention to soil conservation practices, a degree of mech-
anization would be feasible in high potential areas.
Population
10.       The project area is occupied by people of the Hausa tribe, most
of whom are devout moslems. Literacy in English, Nigeria's official language,
and Hausa, the vernacular, is low among adults in rural areas, but is rising
rapidly with the younger generation. Available data are scant. The last
census, from which data are available was carried out in 1963 and remains
the best source of population data until the results of the December 1973
census become available in detail later in 1974. Such data will be of
immeasurable value in detailed project planning and evaluation.
11.       According to the census, population of the parts of the six districts
constituting the project area totalled 457,600 in 1963. A growth rate of
2.5 percent annually is the one normally used in connection with rural popu-
lations in the northern States. Population in the project area has probably
grown somewhat more rapidly due to immigration from other northern States.
For this reason, a growth rate of three percent per annum has been used.
At this rate, population of the project area would be 633,500 by 1974.
12.       Data on numbers of persons per family in the project area are
also sparse. No demographic surveys have been carried out. Tax data are
inconclusive due to marked variability between years and districts, probably
due in part to immigration. In the absence of data applicable to the project
area as a whole, 8.5 persons were arbitrarily selected as representing average
family size. This was in accordance with local opinion and is in line with
estimates used in other similar projects in the northern States. Thus, on
the basis of a family size of 8.5, and a population of 633,500, there would
be some 74,000 families in the area by l974. Numbers of farming families
were calculated on the assumption that about 22 percent would be engaged
primarily on non-agricultural activities. This figure was derived from
census data and observations on non-agricultural activities in the area.
On this basis, there would be about 58,000 farming families in the project
area by 1974.
1/   Transitional between the Sudan and Northern Guinea zones.  For a fuller
description of the project environment refer to Land Resource Study 9:
The Land Resources of North East Nigeria, 1972, Volumes 1-5 by Aitchison
et al, Land Resources Division, Foreign and Commonwealth Office, Overseas
Develop;.ent Administration, England.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
13.       It is proposed to divide the project area into five agricultural
development units (see Map). The estimated number of farm families attributed
to each unit would be as follows:
Biliri Unit             13,000
Kumo Unit               18,000
Gombe Unit              11,000
Wagari Unit              8,500
Telassie Unit            7,500
14.       The social structure of the area is significant because of the
relative strength and influence of the Local Authorities concerned. Part of
the project comes within the jurisdiction of the Emir of Gombe, the tradi-
tional ruler in three of the six districts affected; the remainder is in the
area of the Tangala Waja Local Authority whose Chairman has considerable
standing. In each case the Local Authorities are represented in their areas
by salaried district and village heads. Among other functions these officials
are responsible for the administration of land tenure arrangements at their
respective levels. The system operates on the allocation and maintenance of
customary usufructory rights. It is based on the grant of such rights on
land which is not so allocated, to any native Nigerian who expresses the in-
tention of settling and farming the land in question. This has happened to
a considerable extent in recent years in consequence of immigration by farmers
from more densely settled areas. There are now indications that a large part
of the surplus farm land has been allocated. Thus the system will continue
(as in other areas) such that family heads will sub-allocate land to family
members in accordance with assessed need and capability.  However, in the
event of dispute, the village heads are normally the first source of appeal.
15.       As representative of the Local Authority, village heads have con-
siderable political influence within their areas. Although this influence
is being eroded in the urban areas, such as the wards of Gombe town, it is
still considerable in the villages. For this reason, every effort would be
made to obtain the support of village heads for the project by acquainting
them with proposed and ongoing developments within their areas. District
heads would be similarly consulted and informed. Furthermore, as indicated
in Chapter VI, provision is made for Local Authority representation on the
Project Committee.
Farm Size
16.       Information on farm size is scant.  It is possible to impute a
possible mean farm size on the basis of assumed population, family size and
estimated area of cultivated land. The latter figure is estimated by NES
at 232,000 ha or 44% of total project area.  Given 58,000 farm families



ANNEX 2
Page 5
then average size of cultivated holding, i.e., excluding fallow, would be
4.0 ha.  This figure is in reasonable accord with local opinion in MNR and
Local Authority officials at district level concerned with land allocation to
immigrants in recent years.
Cropping Patterns
17.       Cropping patterns are dominated by sorghum and millet as food
grains, and cotton and groundnuts as the major cash crops. A diversity of
minor crops are grown. Local knowledge and socio-economic surveys in neigh-
boring parts of the northern States indicate that sorghum and millet typically
occupy about 45% and cotton about 25% of cultivated areas. In the north-
western part of the area cotton gives way to groundnuts-on the sandy free
draining soils. Minor crops, usually grown in mixtures with the main cereals
and cash crops, include maize, chilies, kenaf, okara and a range of vegetables.
Communications
18.       The project area is served by two main roads:  the trunk highway
connecting the north east of Nigeria with Jos and the south, passes through
the northern part, branching southwards near Combe to Numan on the Benue
river. These roads are tarred and are maintained by the Federal and State
Governments. In addition, Gombe lies on the Nigerian Railway Corporation
main line from Maiduguri (the State capital) to Jos and the south of Nigeria.
This line runs through the north of the project area and has significance as
a major channel for input delivery and produce evacuation to and from Gombe
town. There are no scheduled airports but there is an airstrip at Gombe.
Telephone facilities also exist at Gombe, operated by the Posts and Telegraphs
Department of the Federal Ministry of Communications.
19.       Unfortunately, the basic communication network barely extends beyond
that described above. Minor roads are non-existent or in poor repair.
Communities are seasonally cut off from each other and the outside world.
Transportation of produce and inputs to rural areas is both difficult and
expensive. Attempts to improve the situation by self help activities and
by the Local Authority Works Departments are hampered by shortages of funds
and executive capacity.
B. Institutions
20.       Institutions that would be concerned with the project and their
relevant responsibilities are described in the following paragraphs.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
The Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR)
21.       MNR would have the responsibility for carrying out the project.
The Ministry has representatives of its four technical divisions within the
project area, and it operates a cotton seed multiplication farm at Dadin
Kowa 1/ (see Map). While the functions of its Field Services and Produce
Inspection Divisions within the area would be incorporated into the project
organization, the administration of the two other Divisions would remain un-
changed. Thus, animal health, organization of grazing facilities and live-
stock improvement services, largely for the semi-nomadic Fulani pastoralists,
would continue to be provided by the Veterinary Division; and the Forestry
Division would continue its work, which is concerned mainly with the regulation
of reserved land, and planting of woodlots. These functions would be largely
unaffected by the project.
The Ministry of Works (MOW)
22.       Responsible for State-financed public works program, MOW has limited
facilities and a small technical staff deployed within the project area; MNW
is concerned mainly with road maintenance, building construction, and the
maintenance of State-financed structures. Executive capacity relative to
the State construction program is a major limitant to its operations.
The Ministry of Health (MOH)
23.       Responsible for all aspects of human health in the State, MOH is
in process of developing its services and facilities. Within the project
area, a Government hospital provides treatment services for both in-and-out-
patients at Gombe. This provides the referral link between the sparse network
of district dispensaries and the specialized hospital facilities operated
by MOH at the State headquarters at Maiduguri. It is expected that Rural
Health Centers and a closer network of dispensaries providing more compre-
hensive services are to be included in the forthcoming development plan
(1974-1978) of MOH.
Ministry of Industry, Trade and Cooperatives (MITC)
24.       MITC provides services to industrial investors and is involved,
for example, with the development of the new oil seed crushing mill being
constructed at Gombe. More relevantly it is responsible for the administra-
tion of cooperative societies within the State.
25.       Responsibility for the cooperative movement in North Eastern State
was transferred recently from MNR to MCDC. In common with other northern
States, cooperatives in North Eastern have made little impact on the bulk
of the rural population. Success has been hampered by shortage of support
1/   Currently leased from the New Nigerian Development Corporation.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
and supervisory staff, and by political interference in the early to mid-
1960's leading to widespread indebtedness. Primary producer and marketing
societies organized in the project area at that time formed Cooperative
Unions. Neither the primary societies nor the unions gained the full support
of farmers. In common with the cooperative movement elsewhere in the northern
States, these groups are to a greater or lesser extent indebted to the State
Government for preseason and marketing loans and are consequently inoperative.
The Goambe Cooperative Union is an exception to this general observation,
nevertheless its performance as a produce buyer for the NSNB leaves much to
be desired and it is heavily dependent on State Government for its day to
day management. For these reasons, little emphasis is placed on the coopera-
tive movement in the initial phases of proposed credit and marketing arrange-
ments for the project. On the other hand, participation by cooperative
organizations in project activities, particularly marketing, would be en-
couraged, provided that project management was satisfied as to their vi-
ability and competence.
The Local Authority
26.       The project area comes under the control of the Gombe Local Autho-
rity (GLA) and the Tangale Waja Local Authority (TWLA). Their main functions
include the collection of tax in respect of people and cattle (haraji and
jangali respectively); the administration of farming land allocations; and
the provision of services such as feeder road construction and maintenance,
dispensaries, and primary education as a complement to State Government
activities in these fields.
27.       Two functions of the LA are of immediate and direct importance
to the project. The 'irst relates to the need for open support and encourage-
ment of project activities and the cooperation of LA officials with project
management. Project concept and proposed activities were discussed at several
levels with both the Local Authorities. Reactions were favorable and full
cooperation was promised. The second is in connection with the maintenance
of the road network which the project would construct. In the course of the
development period the road construction unit of the project would liaise
closely with both the LA Works Departments in order to foster a smooth hand-
over of responsibility at full development.
The Institute of Agricultural ,esearch (IAR)
28.       Created in the early 1960's from the Research Division of the
then Northern Nigeria Ministry of Agriculture, IAR is a semi-autonomous body
linked with Ahmadu Bello University (ABU). Its governing body has represen-
tation from the Ministries of Agriculture and Natural Resources of the six
northern States. Its main researeh station is located at Samaru, near Zaria.
Further details on the organization and output of IAR are in Annex 3.
29.       IA1_ preserves contacLs vi:" :;ea' uarters and field staff of lMNR.
Field trials are carried out on an agency basis on MNR sites, supervised



ANNEX 2
Page 8
by ministry staff under the technical guidance of IAR researchers. Research
recommendations are conveyed to extension staff via the Extension Research
Liaison Service (ERLS) of IAR.
30.       While IAR has directed a major part of its resources to fundamantal
plant breeding in the search for improved high yielding varieties, wlhich
must continue, it must do more to find solutions to the practical everyday
problems of small farmers who struggle with seasonal limitations of labor
and severe shortages of capital and other resources. A practical program of
applied research aimed at identifying and resolving farmers' problems would
make IAR's program more immediately useful to the people it is intended to
serve.
Nigerian Agricultural Bank (NAB)
31.       NAB is a Federal Government institution which was inaugurated in
March 1973, with head offices in Kaduna. UNDP has provided financial assistance
to employ consultants to plan the role of NAB and to manage it for three
years; the Bank is executive agency. Four expatriate senior management staff,
including the General Manager, have been employed; and Nigerian officers have
been recruited.
Northern States Marketing Board (NSMB)
32.       NSMB is responsible for organizing the domestic purchase of controlled
crops, cotton and groundnuts at prices predetermined by FMG. As from the
1973/74 season, NSNB became purchasing agent of the Federal Nigerian Produce
Marketing Company (NPMC), under a new FMG program to improve crop purchasing.
Crop purchases take place at legally gazetted markets by Licensed Buying
Agents (LBA) of NSMB. In 1972, there were 41 cotton markets and 19 groundnut
buying points within the project area.
Cotton and Agricultural Processors Ltd. (CAP)
33.       CAP (formerly the British Cotton Growers' Association (Nigeria) Ltd.)
has had a monopoly for ginning Nigerian cotton since exports began over half
a century ago. CAP has ginneries throughout the cotton growing zones of the
northern States. In addition to ginning and lint classification, CAP arranges
for seed dressing against Bacterial Blight, seed distribution to village dumps,
and transportation of lint and seed as directed by NSNB. CAP is efficient and
capable of expanding its operations to meet the needs of the project. The
present ginning agreement expires in 1976, and CAP is exploring with State
Governments the possibilities of greater local participation in the industry.
C. Processing and Marketing
Cotton
34.       All cotton purchased for NSNB in the project area is ginned at
CAP facilities located either at Gombe or Kumo (see Map). Some increase in



ANNEX 2
Page 9
effective capacity would probably be needed towards the end of the project,
and CAP has indicated its willingness to make the necessary arrangements, in
consultation with MNR and NSMB.
35.       The gazetted cotton markets usually are temporary structures made
from grass mats, and are located on the basis of anticipated purchases
(minimum 50 tons/year) and distance between markets (minimum 8 km). A minimum
of two LBA is mandatory for each market, which is controlled by a Produce
Examiner (PE) from the Produce Inspection Division (PID) of the MNR. The
PE are responsible for the visual grading of seed cotton into one of two
grades, and should ensure that LBA pay correct amounts to farmers for their
produce. The PE are severely criticized as they seldom perform these func-
tions; apparently grading is virtually non-existent, and farmers allege that
many PE conspire with LBA to cheat farmers. The project would seek to correct
these deficiencies.
Cotton Seed
36.       Currently cotton seed is dressed against fungal infection by CAP
and is returned to the farmer. In the handling processes, enormous losses
occur which could be substantially reduced were an acid delinting process
employed. Through this, the seed germination rate would be improved, thus
requiring less seed to be returned to the farmer and releasing a greater
surplus of seed for the crushing industry. NSMB would request CAP to install
acid delinter equipment at their gin in Kumo; CAP have agreed in principal
to this suggestion.
Groundnuts
37.       All groundnuts purchased for NSNB are inspected and graded by PID
staff. Normally, this takes place after the purchases from farmers have been
made by LBA at buying points licensed by LA. Groundnut buying points like
cotton markets, are not properly supervised by PID and there are frequent
allegations that LBA manipulate weigh scales and prices at the expense of
farmers.
Other Crops
38.       Control is normally not exercised on the marketing or handling of
other crops, such as sorghum, maize and cowpeas.  Xowev r, LA has the power,
if agreed by NES, to restrict maovement GE toodcrops in times of shortage.
Such powers have been invoked in poor seasons from time to time.
39.       There is no national food zro- market as such, but rather a series
of fairly highly organized, But disconnected, local centers.  Consequently,
markets are thin and marke, tem;ra  a,. s?acial -rice irregularities occur.
The project would aim to improve  at;ers by the introduction of a market
intelligence service, increas_< .u.ers bargaining power through crop
assembly, and pzoviding Qarkc. ._      zc  ai," '-.ere appropriate helping
farmers groups to enter into contrac:s with large consumers such as livestock
feed producers and commercial starch facror_vs.






ANNEX 2
Table 1
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Phasing of Project Development Program
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Total
Project Admin. H.Q.               1                                             1
Development Centers               4       -        -        -        -          4
Service Centers (accum.)         15       30        50      -        -         50
Road Development
Surfaced                         10       60        60       60       60      250
Unsurfaced                       50      175      175       175      175      750
Water and Soil Conservation
Dams     No.                      5        20       20       20       20       85
Tapkis   No.                    -         40        40       40       40      160
Master ridges km2               -        600       600      600      600    2,400
Complete catchment km2           20        80       80       80       80      340
Maximum farmers using
inputs 1/                   1,600    6,ooo   14,000   24,000   32,000   32,000
Average nxmber of farmers
per village service center
using inputs 2/                 107       200      280      480      640
Average total farmers per
service center                1,160    1,160    1,160    1,160    1,160
Percentage farmers affected
on village basis 3/  %            9       17        24       41       55
Percentage farmers affected
on project total %                3       10        24       41       55
1/ Based on those growers using fertilizers.
2/ Credit takers expected to be 75%.
3/ Taking into account affected villages only.






ANNEX 3
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
Gombe Agricultural Development Project
Research and Seed Multiplication
A.   Research Implementation
Institution
1.        Technical and rural economic research pertaining to the project
area is the responsibility of the semi-autonomous Institute of Agricultural
Research (IAR). The Institute was created in the early 1960's and is linked
to the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) at Zaria. It has its main station and
administrative headquarters at Samaru adjoining the ABU campus. IAR serves
the six northern States. Senior officials from their Ministries of Agri-
culture and Natural Resources (MANR) help to formulate IAR policy and ap-
prove research programs.
2.        The Institute has a staff of over 150 professionals, and modern
and expanding facilities. It has established apparently good working rela-
tions with other research institutions in Nigeria and the West African region.
Its standing in research circles is acknowledged to be high. Over the years
it has produced a w4de range of research results relating to most of the crops
commonly grown in the northern States. Implementation of the results has
been hampered by lack of technical assistance and input delivery services at
the village and farmer levels; and a tendency for research to be unrelated
to the conditions encountered on farmers' farms. The latter weakness has been
high-lighted recently as a result of the activities of the Agricultural Econo-
mics Department of IAR, whose staff are cooperating with technical personnel
in the formulation of research recommendations more nearly related to farmers'
needs and capabilities than has hitherto been the case.
3.        Responsibility for transmissioa of research results to extension
staff is vested in the Extension Research Liaison Service (ERLS) of IAR.
Headed by a deputy director of the Institute, ERLS produces a range of audio
and visual aids materials suitable for use by farmer contact extension staff.
The service is responsible for formulating draft recommended practices for
farmers.  These are based on research results and an assessment of the level
of supervision and technical competence of field level extension staff employed
by the State MANR.  This is generally low, hence recommended practices tend
to be simple and conservative in order to avoid the hazard of loss of confi-
dence by farmers in extension staff who give wrong advice (due to lack of
comprehension) or who are unable to arrange for supplies of necessary inputs.
ERLS has a staff of some 20 professionals and support personnel. Its chief
would be willing to tailor extension material to meet proposed project needs,
and to assist with its production.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        The use of IAR research results as a basis for recommendations by
ERLS to farmers has limitations. The farmer does not have the ideal condi-
tions for crop growth enjoyed by IAR on its stations. His resources are
limited, which necessitates a cropping pattern dictated by his limited
resources. What is now urgently required is a range of experimental work
to show what can be accomplished under the conditions of crop successions
which the environment and limited manpower resources impose on the farmer.
5.        Demonstrations, on both individual holdings and seed multiplication
farms (see Schedule 1) using applicable IAR recommended inputs and improved
seed varieties, would play an important part in teaching new techniques to
farmers. These demonstrations must be of a very high standard to have a real
impact.
Research Programs and Recommendations
6.        Programs on the five crops proposed for the project have been
ongoing for many years. Thus, cotton has been the subject of continuing
research in the major disciplines over the past four decades. Programs are
staffed mainly by personnel of the Cotton Research Corporation (CRC). They
have resulted in the development of improved varieties. Thus S 72, which is
recommended for the project area, has a yield potential under Samaru condi-
tions of well over 2,000 kg of seed cotton per ha. Its main characteristics
are listed in Annex 1. In addition, agronomic practices, fertilizer res-
ponses, pest and disease problems of crop have been clearly defined and,
at least, partially solved, so that farm yields of about 1,100 kg can be
expected over wide areas.
7.        The cotton research 'rogram has provided definite recommendations
on variety, cultural practices and fertilizer applications applicable to
the project area. Currently it is in the course of evaluating systems of
insect control using ultra-low-volume (ULV) spraying techniques on a field
scale at different sites in th2 proposed Funtua project area of the North
Central State. Advice on ULV techniques suitable for farmers is likely to
be forthcoming early in 1974. These would be similar to techniques used by
small scale cotton producers in other parts of Africa. Annex 1 contains
the essence of research recommaendations for the cotton crop plus proposals
for ULV spraying based on experience elsewhere. Future work in the cotton
research program should include testing varieties that have a short growing
period and can thus be planted late and still have a reasonable yield expec-
tation. Late planting of cotton is a practice forced on many farmers because
of limited manpower resources.
8.        Groundnuts have been the sUbject of close research interest and
substantial effort over the past two decades. High yielding varieties suit-
able for the project area have been developed and a package of inputs and
practices capable of at least doubling farmer's yields has been available
for some years.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
9.        Improved practices proposed for the project are based on current
recommendations by ERLS. They include the use of the seed of the variety
S61, seed dressing with Aldran T or Fernasan D, single superphosphate ferti-
lizer at 75 kg per ha, early planting and close spacing. It may be that
ongoing research on control of cercospora leaf spot will lead shortly to
the possibility of incorporating this treatment in practices proposed for
groundnuts in the project area. This should be kept in mind, along with
opportunities for production expansion through new varieties and/or variations
in fertilizer dressing, all of which are under investigation.
10.       Sorghum research has progressed from attempts to improve local
varieties into the development of dwarf varieties and hybrids suitable for
the differing ecological conditions encountered in the northern States. Such
material has a yield potential of at least five times greater than farmers
presently obtain. Selection and breeding programs have been underway for
the past 20 years with substantial assistance in the past decade from the
US through USAID programs involving USDA, USARS and several universities.
Cooperative programs with other West African sorghum producers have also
been operated through IAR.
11.       The outcome of this work, and related agronomic investigations, has
not yet reached the stage at which ERLS is able to issue a series of recommended
practices for general distribution. However, highly promising results have
been obtained from a number of trials, replicated at Daudawa (North Central
State) and a number of other sites in ecologically comparable locations.
These have formed the basis for the proposed level of improved technology,
outlined in Annex 1, involving the use of dwarf sorghum varieties. Proposed
levels of fertilizer application and the specific types of sorghum most
suitable for the project area should be reviewed after 1973 and 1974 cropping
seasons in the light of results of ongoing and proposed field trials scheduled
for Daudawa and other sites. Acceptance for human consumption of new hybrid
varieties on the basis of palatability should be examined closely.
12.       Maize has the most exciting crop development potential in the
project. Recent research results in Nigeria, and experience in other African
countries having similar ecological conditions point to the probability of
a substantial expansion of area and production Jn the short to medium term.
Yields of over 7,000 kg/ha have been obtained under trial conditions over
several years at Samaru from synthetic varieties and hybrids. Trials in
the project area have yielded similarly, aid promising new materials is
presently being tested. Even .f a reduction of 50 percent from research
to farmer fields is assumed yield levels of at least 3,500 kg can be readily
obtained.
13.       These developments a-e comparatively recent in the northern States.
They have been initiated by a number of cooperative and regional programs,
partly funded by the US. Table 2 indicates yield potential of some of the
material being developed. Agronomic practices established elsewhere have



ANNEX 3
Page 4
been, and continue to be, tested under Nigerian conditions. Some refinements
are likely to be forthcoming, but basic production techniques utilizing com-
paratively heavy fertilizer applications have been proven in trials.
14.       Annex 1 sets out two levels of recommended maize technology based
on Nigerian research results and experience in other African countries having
similar ecological conditions. These differ from current recommended practices
since they presuppose a much closer degree of technical assistance to farmers
plus the provision of the inputs necessary to obtain predicted production
levels. As for sorghum, proposed technology should be reviewed in the light
of 1973 and 1974 field trial results and amended as necessary before incor-
poration in project activities.
15.       Cowpea is grown throughout the project area, and widely in Nigeria.
Research has centered mainly on control of insect pests, to which it is
highly susceptible both in the field and in store. However, some improved
varieties have been established and recommendations are available on cultural
practices. Responses to phosphatic fertilizer (single superphosphate) have
been demonstrated.
16.       Control of insect pests is possible, provided the crop is sole
planted using high volume sprays and DDT/BHC mixtures. The probability of
insect control using ULV techniques is currently under investigation at IAR.
Results suitable for dissemination to farmers are expected to be forthcoming
in the near future. In anticipation of this, an improved level of technology
is proposed for the project, that involves ULV spraying and fertilizer appli-
cation to sole crops planted as recommended by ERLS. Confirmation or possibly
modification of the treatment should be sought before their implementation,
following results of ongoing and planned investig&tions by IAR staff.
17.       The project management would undertake field trials in close
cooperation with IAR at the proposed Kumo and Tumu farms. Investigations
would form part of ongoing research programs in major commodities in the
project area. They would pay particular attention to the applicability of
results under project conditions.
Seed Multiplication
18.       Seed multiplication is the responsibility of State Ministries of
Agriculture and Natural Resources from parent nucleus material developed by
IAR. At the present time there is no private sector seed industry. With
the exception of the cotton seed multiplication scheme at Daudawa, Gusau and
Gombe, efforts to produce and distribute improved planting material are
generally inadequate to meet the needs of the northern States (for details
of stage multiplication of cotton see Table 1).
19.       Project proposals for a substantial uptake of improved planting
material of four of the five crops considered dictate that adequate multi-
plication facilities should be developed in the area. MNR already leases



ANNEX 3
Page 5
a 70 ha farm at Dadin Kowa at which cotton seed for the State, and other
areas is bulked up. The Dadin Kowa farm suffers in part from seasonal
flooding of the Gongola River. In order to ensure sufficient land for seed
multiplication the Government would either extend the Dadin Kowa to 200 ha
or open a new farm at Tumu. An additional farm of 400 ha would be developed
from the existing forest reserve, just south of Kumo ginnery. Development
details are at Schedule 1.
20.       Seed production is a specialized business calling for good manage-
ment standards and a high level of technical competence. Most MNR staff
at farm manager level are weak in those qualities, and it is questionable
whether existing MNR personnel could operate a seed production program of
the size proposed for the project. Ouantities of seed would not be large
initially, but would build up quite quickly as shown in Schedule 1.
21.       Parts of both sorghum and maize seed production programs would be
of the new hybrids; exact amounts would depend on farmer uptake which itself
depends on the successful demonstration of significant yield differences
between the new hybrids and current composite strains. Groundnut and cotton
seed production would pass through two multiplication stages on the project
seed farms; final multiplication would be on private seed farms. The 600 ha
of the two project seed farms (para 17) would be adequate to handle cotton and
groundnuts up to the third stage and the cereal production in the early years.
But the use of selected commercial farmers within the project area must be
envisaged for cereal quantities such as those projected from year 3 onwards.
Seed production developments under this project could be substantially expanded
to serve as a major seed producing location for the State.
22.       Schedule 1 of this Annex gives details on requirements, costs and
returns for Tumu (or Dadin Kowa) and Kumo seed farms. Both farms would be
operated by the Project.






ANNEX 3
Table 1
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotton Seed Multiplication
Seed
Sown    Cotton      Seed       Seed
Area    Yield 3/   Produced   Required   For
Stage     Location                 ha -      gha        m ton      m ton       Stage
A       Breeder nucleus           0.15     1,500      0.144      0.102         B
B       Breeder plot (IAR)       6         1,200      4.61       4.20          C
C       Kumo                         120     900         70       60           D
D       Segregated area KumcA/   2,000       750     1,000       800           E
E       Gazetted market areas   20,000       720      9,600 2/                 F
1/ Enlarged Stage D in Kumo area.
2/ Sufficient for 240,000 ha.
3/ Ginning % = 33, seed cotton 67%.



ANNEX 3
Table 2
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Yields of Promising Maize Varieties and Hybrids: IAR Samaru
(kg/ha)
Average
1970      1971       1967A970
Federal Zonal Trial
NC-A                                           6,308     7,171          _
NC-B                                           6,128     6,753
A306                                             -        7,237         -
West African Regional Trials
Ghana Composite 3                              6,140      9,404         -
094 (096)                                      6,0ol     9,137          -
X306                                             -       8,131
XB101                                            -       9,734
NCB                                              -        7,723
NCB X NOB                                        -        8,119
Samaru Trials
C-8 X A-196                                    7,252       -          6,786
A-149 X C-33                                   7,059        -         7,267
BY X C-12                                      5,968        -         7,047
BY X C-10                                      6,931       -          7,148



ANNEX 3
Schedule 1
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seed Multiplication and Demonstration Farms
Existing Area (ha)   New Land Required (ha)    Total
Tumu Farm                                            200                200
Kumo Farm                                            400                400
600                600
Project Seed Requirements
1.        The project farms would produce the seed requirements of the project
farmers during the first two years of the project. Thereafter, any excess
requirement over and above production from project operated multiplication
farms would be produced by the larger "commercially" orientated farms within
the project area. Such farmers would be assisted by project staff. In the
unlikely event of a shortfall in seed it is likely that the surpluses gen-
erated hy the Funtua Agricultural Development Project would be available.
Due to the favorable conditions in Funtua considerable emphasis would be
placed there on seed production. The following summarises project seed
requirements:



ANNEX 3
Schedule 1
Page 2
Year 1  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5
-------------       m   tons
Projected Seed Requirements
Cotton Stage C                     70       70         70      70        70
Cereals (maize-sorghum)             -       78        251     510       774
Groundnuts                         15       60        120     240       360
 -----------------  area  ha
Cotton Stage C                     80       80         80      80        80
Cereals (maize-sorghum)            55      167        340     516       516
Groundnuts                         60      120        240     360       360
Total Area                  195       367        660     956       956
----------  ------- ha --------------
Produced By:
Project seed multiplication farms:
Cotton (Stage C)             80         80        80      80        80
Cereals (maize-sorghum)      55        167      340      340       340
Groundnuts                   60        120        80      80        80
Total                       195        367       500     500       500
Project Farmers (approx.):
Cereals (maize-sorghum)       -          -         -     270       270
Groundnuts                               -       210     380       380
2.        The project farmer involvement as indicated above takes into
account lower yields expected from the farms in comparison to project op-
erated seed farms at Kumo and Tumu. During the first year of the project,
Dadin Kowa farm would remain under project operation prior to the new farms
coming into operation in project year 2. Cereal seed production has been
estimated on the conservative basis that seed would be replaced annually.
This would not be the case for composite maize and sorghum seed. There is
a probability therefore of surpluses being available for distribution to
other farmers within the North Eastern State.
3.        Initially the seed farms would follow a cotton, groundnut, cereal
rotation, with between 15-20% of the land being out of crop at any one time.
The farm manager would be given considerable flexibility in choice of rotation
and cropping systems in the light of the lack of commercial farming data
available in Nigeria.



ANNEX 3
Schedule 1
Page 3
4.   Seed Multiplication Investment Costs
Kumo     Tumu
____N-----
Civil Works
(a)  Land clearing /1 600 ha at N 75/ha            30,000   15,000
(b) Building costs /2
Office                                         3,000    3,000
Store & workshop                               8,000    8,000
Water & power supply                          15,000   15,000
Fencing                                        8,000    8,000
Subtotal                                 34,000   34,000
Total Civil Works                        64,000   49,000
/1   Included under Annex 10, Table 6.
/2   Included under Annex 10, Table 3, staff housing included under General
Technical Service Staff Houses.
Plant and Equipment                                     KUMO           Tumu
---N---
78 hp wheel tractor            at N 4,250      (2) 8,500    (2) 8,500
65 hp wheel tractor            at N 3,800      (1) 3,800            -
35 hp wheel tractor            at N 2,500      (1) 2,500    (1) 2,500
Chisel plows                   at N   380      (2)   760    (1)   380
Offset disc harrow             at N   700      (2) 1,400    (1)   700
Peg harrow                     at N   300      (2)   600    (2)   600
Planter                        at N 1,200      (2) 2,400    (2) 2,400
Trailers                       at N   700      (3) 2,100    (2) 1,400
Sprayer                        at N   600      (1)   600    (1)   600
Maize sheller                  at N 1,000      (1) 1,000    (1) 1,000
Seed dressing equipment                            7,500            -
5 ton lorry                    at N 6,000      (1) 6,000    (1) 6,000
Pickup trucks                  at N 3,300      (2) 6,600    (1) 3,300
43,760       27,380
This equipment would be purchased over two years as shown in Annex 10,
Table 2.



ANNEX 3
Schedule 1
Page 4
5.        The combined seed farm budgets would be as follows:
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3-25
-   -   -    N'000
Expenditure
Cotton at N 132 per ha                (80) 10,560    (80) 10,560    (80) 10,560
Cereals at N 95 per ha                (55)  5,225   (167) 15,865   (340) 32,300
Groundnuts at N 114 per ha            (60)  6,840   (120) 13,680    (80)  9,120
22,625         40,105          51,980
Income
Seed cotton 900 kg/ha at N 0.168/kg        12,096          12,096          12,096
Cereals for seed 2,400 kg/ha
at N 0.136/kg                            17,952          54,509         110,976
Cereals for seed 600 kg/ha
at N 0.07/kg                              2,310           7,014          14,280
Groundnuts for seed 800 kg/ha
at N 0.136/kg                             6,528          13,056           8,704
Groundnuts for seed 200 kg/ha
at N 0.087/kg                             1,044           2,088           1,392
Total Income                          39,930         88,763         147,448
Gross Margin                          12,680         40,637          85,072
6.        The seed farms would be operated on a commercial basis by the
Gombe Agricultural Development Authority.  Commercial accounts would be
maintained.  A qualified and experienced manager would be responsible for
both farms, with an assistant farm manager on each.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
Gombe Agricultural Development Project
Agricultural Roads
General
1.        The lack of reasonable farm access constitutes a serious constraint
to development, the rectification of which is essential for the success of
the project. To enable most farmers to be within two kilometers of a reason-
able road requires development of 1,000 km of agricultural roads in the
Gbmbe area. These roads are needed so that vital agricultural extension
work can reach the farmer during the wet season when his crops are growing,
and for the delivery of farm inputs and evacuation of produce during the dry
season. In addition, social benefits by way of easier and more economical
haul of other supplies, better bus services, and easier travel by the farmer's
own modes of transport such as bicycles, donkey, ox cart and tractor, would
result.
2.        Traffic densities are difficult to predict with accuracy, but it
is certain that most of the heavy lorry traffic would occur in the dry season
when haul of farm inputs and produce is at its peak. Light traffic would
continue throughout the year mostly consisting of local movement between
villages. Because of this traffic pattern, where the heavier axle loads
occur in the dry months, it should be possible to use most of the roads
throughout the year, the main obstacle being those roads intersected by a
major river crossing which could cut off traffic for several months in the
wet season. Careful road location is necessary to reduce the frequency of
such obstacles.
3.        During the five year development period, the project would construct
1,000 km of agricultural roads, of which, about 750 km would be unsurfaced and
250 km would be surfaced. Roads would only be surfaced - with appropriate
thicknesses of natural occurring gravels - on main extraction routes to market
centers and where soil conditions make this essential (see map for proposed
road layout).
4.        Construction Standards. 1f  Roads would be constructed on the water-
sheds 2/ as such alignments are self draining and require minimal earthworks.
1/   Basic standards and data are calculated using English measurements.
2/   Lines of separation between drainage basins.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Construction would involve 1,500-2,500 YC/mile over a 32 ft formation, and
would be undertaken most effectively by tractors for site clearance, and
motor graders for shaping the formation and providing turn-out drains from
longitudinal side drains; the use of motor graders would predominate.
Stripping (or topsoiling) over the formation width would seldom be required
on watersheds where weathering had taken place exposing material which is
capable, without surfacing, of adequately carrying the low volumes of traffic
likely to use such roads. Proposed typical road cross sections are attached
for (a) construction by grader and (b) low embankments that would be required
where low-lying areas cannot be avoided (see Figure 1 of Annex 4).
5.   Construction Technique
(i) Selection of road center line would be carefully carried out
by stereoscopic examination of aerial photography (provided for
under the project, Annex 10, Table 2) and large-scale maps, and
by site inspection and levelling to locate the tops of ridges,
which are often very flat. The alignments would slavishly
follow selected watersheds.
(ii) Clearing of the formation would be carried out by tractor/dozer/
scraper combinations and debris moved outside the formation
width.
(iii)  Topsoiling (or soil stripping) would only be carried out where
absolutely necessary, e.g., where topsoil or unsuitable material
exists and where the use of such soil in construction would
reduce road bearing strength.
(iv) Construction by grader. On watershed routes, the main method
of construction would be by motor grader. Material from
graderblade cut side drains, depth 12" - 18", would be moved
towards the center of the formation width and shaped to a
smooth camber. This is essentially a lateral earth movement
although some longitudinal regularization would occur along
the road center line as the grader shapes the formation.
Scarifying the material in the side drains may be necessary
and occasionally a tractor-mounted ripper might be needed to
loosen material for easier movement by the grader.
(v)  Provision of turn-out (offshoot drains) from the longitudinal
side drains of the formation would be grader constructed to
discharge water from the formation and so prevent erosion in
the side drains being caused by long uninterrupted drainage
flows. Care would be taken to ensure that turnout drains had
the correct slope to take water away from the formation.
(vi) Compaction of formation after shaping is desirable. The supply
of water for consumption by project staff and for road and dam
construction would be difficult. Rivers do not flow continually



ANNEX 4
Page 3
throughout one year, very few dams exist, shallow wells generally
yield low, and frequently fail in the dry season; and bore holes
(tube wells) have not proved successful in the basement complex
of the project area.
The initial stage of the construction program would be confined
for the first dry season of the project to areas within a work-
able range of existing water supplies, say, 20 miles. Thereafter
the dams constructed in the first stage, after filling during
the rains, would become the water source for wider reaching
road and dam construction activities.
(vii) Surfacing would only be carried out by tractor and scraper
over sections where the subgrade is found to have inadequate
bearing strength even for low traffic volumes, and where supplies
of surfacing material within the practical working haul of
tracked tractors. Scrapers would require the support of a pusher
during such operations. The principal function of the tractors
would be clearing, dozing and ripping and not surfacing (see
para 11). The self-loading scrapers proposed for the dam con-
struction unit would assist with surfacing in the wet season.
Local haulage contractors would be used where long hauls of
gravel are found necessary.
(viii) Minor embankments would be constructed by tractors and scrapers
on those sections where watershed construction is impossible.
Side borrow to fill would be used where practicable (see typical
cross-sections). In adopting predominantly watershed alignments,
embankments would be required in crossing from one watershed to
another and in doing so, at some sites, it would be possible to
construct dams and allow traffic to cross over a widened dam
wall.
(ix) Drainage structures. Corrugated metal pipe culverts would be
used because of the ease and speed with which these can be
transported, assembled and constructed. Bitumen-coating of
metal pipe would be an effective method of protecting culverts
from the slightly acid (pH 5-6) soil water to which they would
be exposed. Concrete headwalls, tailwalls and drop-pits using
standardized form-work would be constructed.
Method of Procurement
6.   Road Works - Three possibilities exist:
(i) By Contract. It is the opinion of Federal and State MOW
officials that major Nigerian (and foreign operations in
Nigeria) civil engineering contractors are fully (if not over)
committed with Federal and State highway development programs



ANNEX 4
Page 4
and that contracts for low-standard agricultural roads would
not interest them at the present time. The project program
is not of a type to interest new foreign contractors because
of their low unit cost of construction, long construction
period envisaged, and demand for a modest amount of equipment
and plant.
(ii) jIy State Ministries and Agencies. The State Ministries of
Works and Agriculture and Natural Resources would be unable
to undertake the construction of project roads and dams without
considerable strengthening in staff and equipment. In any
case MOW is already over committed and is extremely short of
adequately experienced supervisory and technical personnel.
(iii) By Project Construction Units. The establishment of these
units would involve recruitment of senior managerial, technical
and mechanical staff, procurement of plant, training of ope-
rators, setting up workshops, costing procedures and evaluation
of physical outputs. The recruitment of high calibre senior
personnel with experience in similar work is essential to the
success of project units. However, the main advantage of project
construction by force account would be lower cost of construction,
flexible use of equipment between roads and dams, and the training
of personnel to undertake similar work elsewhere in the State.
7.        Other integrated agricultural projects financed by the Bank have
In some instances involved the development of infrastructure through project
construction units. Construction has generally been efficient, at low cost,
and has provided an excellent training ground for young indigenous engineers.
In the light of such experiences, the inadequacy of existing Nigerian insti-
tutions, the lack of available contractors, and the need for flexibility,
the project would set up a special unit to undertake the construction of
roads, dams and soil conservation measures.
Construction Costs
8.        The average overall road construction cost is estimated at about
N 2,500 (US$3,800) per km. The cost includes engineering overheads, plant
capital and operating costs, workshop capital and operating costs, labor and
engineering supplies (see Tables 1-4).
Plant Requirement
9.        Plant requirements for agricultural road construction units have
been estimated by using plant output figures for similar work under similar
terrain and rainfall conditions and by estimating the total work quantities
required. Table 2 shows recommended major plant items. The predominant
method of construction would be by motor grader with one more powerful grader



ANNEX 4
Page 5
for work in harder soil conditions. Other major equipment includes two
tracked tractors with dozers and scrapers for clearing and forming shallow
embankments, and two vibratory rollers for compaction or formation and sur-
facing, where required.
Staff Requirements
10.       These have been related to the numbers and types of construction
equipment and to the tasks involved in alignment selection, grade construc-
tion, surfacing and drainage structures. A high degree of mobility is
desirable; caravans (dwelling trailers) would be provided for senior personnel
and portable accommodation for artisans, operators and laborers (Annex 6,
Table 5).
Road Maintenance
11.       Although some road maintenance would be undertaken by the project
during the development period, the allocation of construction plant for
maintenance would not be allowed to interfere with output of new road; thus
once a new road had been built maintenance responsibility would be handed
over to the respective Local Authority (LA). Funds have been included under
Annex 10, Table 6 for the purchase and operation of maintenance equipment,
and under the project respective LA staff would, during the project, be
seconded to the project engineering service for purposes of training and
operating control.
Bridges
12.       Small streams would be crossed by constructing "Irish" crossings -
a concrete slab on a suitable rock foundation - or through the use of ARMCO
type culverts. No large bridges would be constructed, since most rivers are
extremely wide and run dry for 8 months of the year, at a time when crops
are being evacuated, and inputs are being delivered to service center stores.
All the roads would have year round access from at least one end so that
during the wet season access can be gained. In the dry season road main-
tenance units would cut new approaches to the river beds, which would be
sufficient to allow ingress to traffic.
Compensation
13.       Compensation for loss of arable land due to road construction would
be made at established LA rates and the amounts (provided for under Annex 10
Table 6) would be determined by LA.






NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOM8E AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Construction - Output Rates
°/ of Total 1/
(620 miles)                                                                        ---     ----------Hours----------------
Operation                                                    Dimension       (1,000 km)         Units                 Total Units         Output Rates           Grader    Dozer    Scraper    Compactor
Clearing in open country for grader construction             40' wide            45%            4.85 acre/mile         1,360 ac           1.25 ac/hour             -        1,100        -            -
Clearing in bush country for grader construction             40' wide            45%            4.85 acre/mile         1,360 ac           0.75 ac/hour             -        1,800        -            -
Clearing in open country for earthworks construction          75' wide           7.5%           9.10 acre/mile           420 ac           1.25 ac/hour             -          350        -            -
Clearing in bush country for earthworks construction          75' wide           2.5%           9.10 acre/mile           214 ac           0.75 ac/hour             -          300        -            -
Topsoiling (where necessary: dozer 50%, scraper 50%)          32' x 6"           10/%           3,130 YC/mile          194,000 CY         80-85 YC/hour                     2,400      1,200          -
Construction by grader                                                           90%              560 miles              1,350 days       0.33-0.5 mile/day   11,000          -          -            -
Offshoot drains by grader                                    Max. 2,500'         90%              560 miles              1,000 days       0.50-0.6 mile/day    8,000          -                       -
drains/mile.
Subgrade compaction (including watering)                      20' wide          100%            12,000 YS/mile         7,400,000 YS       650 YS/hour              -          -          -         11,400
Surfacing - by tractor and scraper                            15' (av.)          2°,.            1,500 YC/mile           230,000 YC       50-55 YC/hour            -        4,600      4,600          -
Shaping surfacing - by grader                                 20' wide           25%            12,000 YS/mile         1,860,000 YS       2,000 YS/hour          1,000        -                       -
Surfacing compaction (including watering)                     20' wide           25%            12,000 YS/mile         1,860,000 YS         650 YS/hour            -          -          -          3,000
Earthworks (by tractor and scraper; haul n.e. 600')                              10%             6,500 YC/mile           400,000 YC       65-70 YC/hour            -        6,000      6,000          -
Total                                    20,000    16,550    11,800         14,400
per year (4 years)                        5,000      4,138      2,950        3,600
Units required 2/                             3          2          2            2
1/ As a percentage of each mile of constructed road.
2/ There may be some residual capacity which would allow for additional roads to be constructed and the road unit would receive additional support if required from dam construction                       S x
equipment.
March 1, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Construction: Unit Plant and Operating Costs
------------- Capital Costs (i'O0O)------------            -----------Operating Costs per Hour (N)----------------
Price ex Lagos                              Total
incl. attach-                   Transport  Delivery               Lub. &               Cutting
ments and duty   Spares 3/   to Site    Price              Fuel   Filters   Tyres   Edger etc.   Repairs   Operator   Total
Tractor 180 hp, PCU, Dozer, Ripper                         50.9                          1.0        51.9        2.39    0.52         -         0.43         4.67        1.00 2/   9.01
Tractor 140 hp, PCU, Dozer, Ripper 1/                      30.6                          1.0        31.6        1.60    o.32         -         0.43         2.84        1.00 2/   6.19
Scraper 14/18 YC                                           16.o                          0.6        16.6         -       0.15       0.95       0.30         0.55         -         1.95
SP Scraper 150 hp 1/                                      36.6                           1.0        37.6        1.68    0.44        1.08       0.50         3.19        1.00 2/   7.89
Motorgrader 125 hp                                         28.8                          0.6        29.4        2.22    o.24        1.68       0.70         1.35        1.00 2/   7.19
Motorgrader 150 hp                                         32.6                          0.6        33.2        2.49    0.40        1.68       0.75         1.54        1.00 2/   7.86
Agricultural tractor                                        -                             -          4.0        0.51    0.15        0.36         -          0.17        0.20       1.39
Vibratory compactor 9 tons                                 28.8                          o.6        29.4        0.82    0.20         -           -          2.35        0.80 2/   4.17
Tipper 7 t/5 YC                                             -                             -          8.0        0.82    0.30        0.53         -          0.39        0.20       2.24
Mobile workshop/lub. truck/fuel tanker                      -                             -         10.0        0.82    0.30        0.53         -          0.49        0.20       2.34
4  wheel drive vehicle                                      -                             -          4.0        0.66    0.20        0.40         -          0.20        0.20        1.66
Pickup ½ ton GP                                             -                             -          3.2        0.66    0.20        0.40        -           0.16        0.20       1.62
Car, large                                                  -                             -          5.0        0.55    0.10        0.30         -          o.25        0.20        1.40
Car, light                                                  -                             -          3.0        0.44    0.10        0.25         -          0.15         -          0.94
Concrete mixer 14/10                                        -                             -          1.0        0.41    0.10         -           -          0.10         -          0.61
Water trailer                                               -                             -          1.0         -        -         0.05         -          0.05         -          0.10
Water pump                                                  -                             -          0.5        0.41    0.05         -           -          0.05         -          0.51
Generator 2.5 KVA                                           -                             -          1.0        0.41    0.10         -           -          0.15          -         o.66
1/ Equipment required for water and soil conservation work (Annex 4, Table 1).
2/ Double shift work - two operators requiired.
3/ Included in repair costs.
March 1, 1974
sj
uDZ 
H  m
X >



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Construction: Capital Costs for Plant. Equipment and Materials
(N' 000)
Forein Excange    Local
Unit    Unit Cost        No. Units           Year 1            Year 2             Year 3            Year 4             Year 5         Total       Fe            Cost      Cost
Field Requirements
Tractor FLU/dozer/ripper 180 hp              No.        51.9               2          (1)   51.9         (1)   51.9               -                  -                  -          103.8       90            93.4       10.4
Scraper - towed 14/18 cy                     No.        16.6               2          (1)   16.6         (1)   16.6               -                  -                  -           33.2       90            29.9        3.3
Motorgrader 125 hp                           No.        29.4               2           (1)   29.4        (1)   29.4                                  -                  -           58.8       90            52.9        5.9
Motorgrader 150 hp                           No.        33.2               1           (1)   33.2               -                 -                  -                  -           33.2       90            29.9        3.3
Agric. tractor 65 hp                         No.         4.0               2           (2)    8.0               -                 -                  -                  -             8.0      90             7.2        0.8
Vibratory compactor 9 tons                   No.        29.4               2           (1)   29.4        (1)   29.4               -                  -                  -           58.8       90            52.9        5.9
4 wheel drive vehicle                        No.         4.0               4          (2)    8.0                -           (2)    8.0               -                  -            16.0      60             9.6        6.4
Tipper 7 ton 5 yc                           No.          8.0               2           (2)   16.0               -                 -                  -                  -            16.0      90            14.4        1.6
Pickup ½ ton                                 No.         3.2               4           (2)    6.4               -           (2)    6.4               -                  -            12.8      60             7.7        5.1
Caravan                                      No.         3.0               5           (3)    9.0        (2)    6.0                -                 -                  -            15.0      90            13.5        1.5
Water trailer 1,000 gal.                     No.          1.0              4           (4)    4,0               -                  -                 -                  -             4.0      90             3.6        0.4
Water pump and hose                          No.         0.5               2           (2)     1.0              -                  -                 -                  -             1.0      90             0.9        0.1
Generator 2.5 KWA                            No.          1.0              1           (1)     1.0              -                  -                 -                  -             1.0      90             0.9        0.1
Concrete mixer 14/10                         No.          1.0              1           (1)     1.0              -                  -                 -                  -             1.0      90             0.9        0.1
Lub. truck                                   No.         10.0              1           (1)   10.0               -                  -                 -                  -            10.0      90             9.0        1.0
Fuel tanker                                  No.        10.0               1           (1)   10.0               -                 -                  -                  -            10.0      90             9.0        1.0
Survey equipment                                                                               2.0               1.0                2.0               1.0                1.0          7.0      90             6.3        0.7
Sub total                                                                        236.9             134.3               16.4                1.0                1.0       389.6       88          342.0       47.6
Workshop Requirements
Fuel storage                                              2.0              -                   2.0              -                  -                 -                  -             2.0      50              1.0       1.0
Lub. equipment                                            1.0              -                   1.0              -                  -                 -                  -             1.0      80             0.8        0.2
Overhead hoists                                           1.0              -                   1.0              -                  -                 -                  -             1.0      90             0.9        0.1
Welding equipment                                         3.5              -                   3.5              -                  -                 -                  -             3.5      80              2.8       0.7
Tyre equipment                                            1.5              -                   1.5              -                  _        -                           -             1.5      80              1.2       0.3
Air compressor                                           0.8               -                   0.8              -                  -                 -                  -             0.8      80              0.6       0.2
Jacks HD                                                  0.8              -                   0.8              -                  -                 -                  -             0.8       80             0.6       0.2
Bench equipment                                           -                -                   1.8               0.2                0.2               0.2                0.2          2.6      80              2.1       0.5
Motor tools                                                                -                   3.8               0.2                0.2                0.2               0.2          4.6       80             3.7       0.9
Mechanical tools                                          -                -                   0,6               0.1                0.1                0.1               0.1          1.0       80             0.8       0.2
Mobile workshop                              No.         10.0              2           (1)   10.0               -           (1)   10.0                                  -            20.0       90            18.0       2.0
Low loader                                   No.        21.0               1           (1)   21.0               -        -                  -                           -            21.0       90            18.9       2.1
Fuel tanker                                  No.         10.0              2           (2)   20.0               -                  -                 -                  -            20.0       90            18.0       2.0
Pickup ½ ton                                 No.          3.2              2           (1)     3.2              -           (1)    3.2               _                  -             6.4       60             3.8       2.6
Other tools and equipment                                                                      4.2               0.2                o.2               0.2                0.2          5.0       80             4.0       1.0
Sub total                                                                         75.2                0.7              13.9                0.7                0.7         91.2      85            7/.2       14.0
Building and Construction Materials
Workshop, store, furnishings, etc.           No.         35.0              1                  35.0              -                  -                                    -            35.0       20             7.0       28.0
Cement and form work                                                                           3.3               6.6                6.6                6.6               6.6         29.7       -              -        29.7
Corrugated metal pipes                                                                        20.0              40.0               40.0              40.o               40.0        180.0       70           126.0       54,o
Field housing shelters                                                                         6,0                3.0               3.0                3.0                3.0        18.0       10             1.8       16.2
Sub total                                                                         64.3               49.6              49.6               49.6               49.6        262.7      51           134.8      127.9
Total                                                                            376.4              184.6              79.9               51.3               51.3        743.5       74           554.0    189.5
March 1, 1974
4t>



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Construction - Labor and Plant Operating Costs
(N'OOO)
No. of                  Unit Rate      Year I            Year 2            Year 3            Year 4           Year 5                       Foreign Exchange        Local
Units    Total Hra.   N per ha    Hrs.   Cost          Hrs.   Cost      Hrs.   Cost       Hrs.   Cost       Hrs.   Cost        Total       %             Cost      Cost
Field Units
Tractor         180 hp      (2)       16,550          9.01       1,550  14.o      4,000  36.o       4,000  36.0       4,000  36.0       3,000  27.0        149.0       37           55.1       93.9
Scraper         14/18 cy   (2)        10,800          1.95         900   1.8      3,000   5.9       3,000   5.9       3,000   5.9         900   1.8         21.3       70           14.9        6.4
Motorgrader    125 hp       (2)       14,ooo          7.19       1,000   7.2      4,000  28.8       4,000  28.8       4,000  28.8       1,000   7.2        100.8       44           44.4       56.4
Motorgrader    150 hp       (1)        6,ooo          7.86         500   3.9       1,500  11.8      1,500  11.8       1,500  11.8       1,000   7.9         47.2       44           20.8       26.4
Agric. tractor  65 hp       (2)       18,000          1.39       2,000   2.8      4,000   5.6       4,000   5,6       4,000   5.6       4,000   5.6         25.2       44           11.1       14.1
Vibratory compactor         (2)       14,400         4.17          400   1.7      4,000  16.7       4,000  16.7       4,000  16.7       2,000   8.3        60.1        44           26.4       33.7
Tipper            5 yc      (2)       18,000          2.24       2,000   4.5      4,000   9.0       4,000   9.0       4,000   9.0       4,000   9.0        40.5        44           17.8       22.7
4 wheel drive vehicle       (2)       18,000          1.66       2,000   3.3      4,000   6.6       4,000   6.6       4,000   6.6       4,000   6.6         29.7       44           13.1       16.6
Pickup truck ½ ton          (2)       18,000          1.62       2,000   3.2      4,000   6.5       4,000   6.5       4,000   6.5       4,000   6.5         29.2       44           12.8       16.4
Concrete mixer 14/10        (1)        5,000          0.61       1,000   0.6       1,000   0.6      1,000   0.6       1,000   0.6       1,000   0.6          3.0       44            1.3        1.7
Water trailer                (4)      36,000          0.10       4,000   0.4      8,000   0.8       8,000   0.8       8,000   0.8       8,000   0.8          3.6       44            1.6        2.0
Water pump                   (2)       9,000          0.51       1,000   0.5       2,000   1.0      2,000   1.0       2,000   1.0       2,000   1.0          4.5       44            2.0        2.5
Generator 2 KWA              (1)       9,000          0.66       1,ooo   0.7       2,000   1.3      2,000   1.3       2,000   1.3       2,000   1.3          5.9       44            2.6        3.3
Labor costs 1/                                                           8.6              17.2              17.2              17.2              8.6        68.8        -             -         68.8
Sub total                                                     53.2            147.8             147.8             147.8              92.2       588.8       38          223.9      364.9
Workshop Operating 2/
Mobile workshop              (2)       9,000          2.34       1,000   2.3       2,000   4.7      2,000   4.7       2,000   4.7       2,000   4.7         21.1       50           10.5        10.6
Low loader                  (1)        4,000         4.78          500   2.4       1,000   4.8      1,000   4.8       1,000   4.8         500   2.4         19.2       44            8.4       10.8
Lub. truck                  (1)        6,000          2.34         500   1.2      1,500   3.5       1,500   3.5       1,500   3.5       1,000   2.3         14.o       44            6.2        7.8
Fuel tanker                 (1)        6,000          2.34         500   1.2       1,500   3.5      1,500   3.5       1,500   3.5       1,000   2.3         14.0       44            6.2         7.8
Pickup ½ ton                (1)        9,000          1.62       1,000   1.6      2,000   3.2       2,000   3.2       2,000   3.2       2,000   3.2         14.4       44            6.3        8.1
Special services 3/                      -              -                10.0             15.0              15.0              15.0              10.0        65.0       50           32.5       32.5
Freight 4/                                              -                 1.5              3.0               3.0               3.0               1.5        12.0       75            9.0         3.0
Sub total                                                     20.2             37.7              37.7              37.7              26.4       159.7       50            79.1       80.6
Total                                                         73.4            185.5             185.5             185.5             118.6       748.5       40          303.0      445.5
1/ Includes: for road survey and grade construction 2 engineering assistants and 5 laborers; for surfacing I engineering assistant and 10 laborers,
and for drainage structures 1 foreman, 3 mason/carpenters and 10 laborers.
2/ Excludes parts, mechanical supplies and labor (2 foremen, 2 clerks, 2 partsmen, 10 mechanics, 10 mechanics helpers) costs included in hourly
repair costs for plant and equipment.
3/ Services for plant repairs.
4/ Mainly airfreight of supplies.
March 1, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Maintenance Unit N'O00 /
Unit     No. of                                                                                                      Foreign Exchange      Local
Unit      Cost      Units         Year 1           Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5         Total     %            Cost     Cost
Plant and Equipment
Tractor 140 hp PCU dozer, PCU ripper   No.         31.6          1      (1)     31.6             -                -                -                -         31.6      90           28.4        3.2
Notorgrader 125 hp                       No.       37.6          1      (1)      37.6            -                -                                           37.6      90           33.8        3.8
4 wheel drive vehicle                   No.         4.0          2      (1)      4.0 o                            _        (1)      4.o             -          8.0      60            4.8        3.2
Tipper 5 yc                             No.         8.0          2      (1)       8.0             -               -        (1)      8.0             -         16.0      90           14.4        1.6
Small equipment and tools                                                         2.0             0.5              0.5              0.5              0.5       4.0      60            2.4        1.6
Sub total                                                             83.2              0.5              0.5             12.5              0.5     97.2       84          83.8       13.4
Plant Operating and Labor 2/
Tractor 140 hp                           Hours     N6.19    7,000       1,000    6.2    1,500    9.3    1,500    9.3    1,500    9.3    1,500    9.3          43.4       37          16.1       27.3
Notorgrader                             Hours      N7.19    7,000       1,000    7.2    1,500   10.8    1,500   10.8    1,500   10.8    1,500   10.8          50.4      44           22.2       28.2
4 wheel drive vehicle                    Hours     N1.66    5,000       1,000    1.7    1,000    1.7    1,000    1.7    1,000    1.7    1,000    1.7           8.5      44            3.7        4.8
Tipper 5 yc                              Hours     N2.24    4,000         500    1.1       500    1.1    1,000    2.2    1,000    2.2    1,000    2.2          8.8      44            3.9        4.9
Labor                                   Manday    N1.0      4,125         500    0.5       625    o.6    1,000    1.0    1,000    1.0    1,000    1.0          4.1      -             -          4.1
Rural Engineer                          Manyears  N5,000         5      (1)       5.0    (1)       5.0    (1)      5.0    (1)        5.0    (1)      5.0      25.0      -             -         25.0
Sub total                                                             21.7             28.5             30.0             30.0             30.0    140.2       33           45.9      94.3
Total 3/                                                             104.9             29.0             30.5             42.5             30.5    237.4       55          129.7      107.7
1/ Road maintenance unit would commence work at the beginning of Year I to open up and maintain existing tracks to enable initial service centers to be developed.  Thereafter
the unit would maintain existing and project constructed roads.  The unit would be owned and operated by the local authority who would second it and its staff to the project
during the implementation phase. Thereafter the local authority would take over full control.
2/ Includes cost of driver and plant operators.
3/ Includes maintenance of about 110 km of existing tracks.
March 2, 1974
Icr z
4X






NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
TYPICAL AGRICULTURAL ROAD CROSS SECTIONS
CONSTRUCTION BY GRADING                                                   C/L
| _    -          ~~~~~~~~~16'                                           6-  
CONSTRUCTION IN EMBANKMENT
|             1   12'    -2|
SPECIFICATIONS
Clearing Width; 40 ft for grading
Clearing Width: 75 ft for embankment
Only where directed by engineer and then full compacted
Surfacing:    thickness as ordered over central 10ft, tapering to zero                                                                                              c
thickness 10ft. either side of central line.
Degree of
Curvature:    As dictated by terrian
Gradient:     Maximum 14% over length of 1,000 ft
Turnout Drains: Maximum 2,500ft of drains per mile of road
World Sark-827(30R)






ANNEX 5
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water and Soil Conservation
1.        The project area suffers from extreme shortage of water for domestic
purposes during the dry season and part of the wet season until village wells
start to yield properlv. The area is also prone to soil erosion principally
in the catchment areas of small streams and rivers. Under the ecological and
climatic conditions prevailing in the project area, soil and water conservation
are synonymous with each other, and where possible would be treated together,
particularly as proposed under the project, water development would be through
the construction of surface water dams.
A. Water Conservation and Rural Water Supplies
2.        Shortage of water supplies for domestic use during the dry season
and beginning of the wet season, January through August, is acute in the
project area. It is estimated that the existing wells, dams and tapkis (ponds)
can serve only 10-20X of total demand. Villagers depend for their supplies on
water from wells that on average can only be dug to 10-20 m, most of which dry
up during the dry season. An alternative source of water are tapkis and small
earth dams, but these are infrequent, and at times poorly sited and constructed,
resulting in poor holding capacity and at times breakages. The final alter-
native is stream bed wells. These are seasonally hand dug in water bearing
sands of some, but not all, rivers and streams. In many instances these are
last resort supplies resulting in carry distances of up to 5 miles. Water
collected from such sources is either head or donkey carried, and during the
crisis period (from February to June) is sold at a standard rate of NO.10
(US$0.15) per 20 liters. The lack of water is a serious social and technical
constraint, and unless efforts are made to conserve and improve water supplies
the project might only partially succeed.
3.        Existing plans by the State Government to improve water supplies in
rural areas has been given high budgetary priority. Plans are being prepared
to improve water supplied to larger towns, but for rural villages efforts
rarely go beyond providing assistance for well improvements. The latter is
not the correct policy since the ground water available in the shallow aquifer
is limited, and new wells themselves dry up and accelerate the drying up of
existing wells. In short it would seem that the draw off of ground water is
greater than its reservoir supply.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        The possibilities of utilizing ground water from deep aquifers
have been reviewed. Unfortunately geological conditions in the area are
such that the basement complex is of shallow formation and precludes the
possibilities of deep aquifers. Furthermore even if utilization were
possible some form of mechanical pumping would be necessary raising
problems of maintenance. Experience shows that most of the simple pumps
installed in the past have been broken within a year and subsequently
have been rarely repaired.
5.        For the reasons outlined above hleavy reliance on dugwells and/or
deep boreholes are impracticable.  Fortunately it is possible to exploit
surface water supplies and to impound wet season (June-September) run off
in small earth damns. The topography and stream pattern for the project
area indicate a protiising potential for earth dam construction.  This is
further substantiated by the 1:50,000 topographical maps which are available
(with 50 and 25 foot contour intervals) and which indicate a large number
of potential locations for small dani sites.
6.        liydrological data are generally poor, but enough for small dam
development purposes. Annual rainfall in the project area varies from
700 mm-1,200 mm, and a runoff yield varying from 0.080-0.150 m3/km2 can
be expected. Evaporation from the natural water surface is very high
being about 2,000 mm per year.
7.        A careful analysis of the topography, availability of local
construction materials and hydrology indicates that a network of small dams
of about 120,000 m3 in total capacity each, should be built.  Each would
be fed by runoff from a catchment of 3 to 4 km2 in area and would be
capable of meeting the year-round demands of 2,000 people and their live-
stock. The dams would be equipped to provide a gravitational distribution
system for conveying water from the reservoir outlet to delivery points at
separate locations for people and livestock.
8.        A typical earthdam for the project area would have specifications
as detailed below:
(i)  Features of average dam
-    Total maximum height                           6.70 m
-    Free board                                     1.50 m
-    Depth at spillway level                        5.2  m3
-    Total capacity                             120,000  m3
-    Dead storage or sediment space              20,000  mn3
-    Useful storage capacity                    100,(00  m3
-    The spillway overflow with concrete sills with rip-rap in
between (it may be necessary to peg down the rip-rap with
gabion wire in special cases) would be designed by the Soil
Conservation Engineer after he had surveyed the catchment,
studied its characteristics, rainfall intensity and worked
out the run-off.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Dam - earth-fill with clay core if necessary, having 4 m
top width and 1:2 to 1:3 side slopes with rip-rap on up-
stream face, containing about 7,000 m3 of fill.
Foundation - treated to impervious zone.  Core wall would be
installed to an impervious foundation.
-    Outlet work - outlet pipes of 7.5 cm in diameter laid in
concrete, with at least three concrete flanges, equipped
with a gate valve on the downstream.
-    Dam design - as portions of the project area are under soils
which contain a high percentage of clay and others under
deep soils containing high sand content, the design of each
dam would be based on the results of soil tests, the proposed
borrow and foundation materials.
(ii) Distribution System
-    Main gravity pipeline - iron pipe of 7.5 cm in diameter
laid at 1:1.000 slope for a distance to clear valley bottom,
not exceeding 300 m.
-    Branch pipeline - iron of 5 cm in diameter conveying water
from the main pipe to the separate delivery points at a
distance of at least 50 m for villagers and 100 m for
livestock from the mlain pipe.
-    Villager delivery points - installed with an adequate
concrete platform and faucets. 1/
-    2 livestock delivery points - installed with an adequate
brick trough and faucets.
(iii)  Useful life of Tank:       20 years 2/
Design sediment space in tank: 1,200 x 20 x 0.85 = 20,000 m3
Total tank capacity:
-    Active or useful storage                   100,000 m3
-    Space for sediment deposit                  20,000 m3
-    Total capacity                             120,000 m3
1/   The possibility of using hydrograms, for pumping water from the larger
dams to nearby villages should be considered as to cost and applicability.
2/   For this purpose, the first 20 years after completion of the tank are
considered as 'Productive life of the reservoir' and years beyond this
are considered as 'falling' or 'depleting' life.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
9.        In the very sandy areas where dams are impractical subsurface dams
would be constructed. This would involve selecting a site with rocks occurring
on both sides of the river, and digging a trench down to the impervious layer,
a reinforced concrete wall would be built (to a height to be decided upon by
the Conservation Engineer). The area behind the wall would silt up and the
water would be retained in the sand, resulting in minimum evaporation. Water
would be obtained through the traditional system of digging shallow wells on
the water bearing sands. The cost would be less than that of a dam.
10.       The project could not in the first instance provide sufficient
dams to satisfy all project farmers. However, it would attempt to satisfy
demand in the more critical areas, and provide reserve capacity for most
village unit areas. 35 dams would be constructed over the 5 years of the
project; 5 would be built in year 1, followed by 20 in each subsequent year.
Thus on average there would be one dam to 60 km which approximates to one
per 700 farming families.
B.  Soil Conservation Measures
11.       Soil erosion occurs through overstocking and concentration of stock
at sparsely located watering points, and through poor cultivation methods in-
cluding badly aligned planting ridges and late planted crops at low plant
densities.
12.       Virtually no soil conservation measures have been undertaken on a
large scale in northern Nigeria and there are no practical specifications
based on past experience that can be followed. Consequently it would remain
for the project conservation engineer to modify the designs and layouts as
experience is gained during project implementation.
13.       Dam catchments would require special conservation measures to prevent
erosion and siltation. Conservation on other areas would be of a less inten-
sive nature but designed to provide a basis for any future more intensive con-
servation measures that may be required. To avoid concentration of livestock
at the limited number of existing watering places and planned project dams a
number of tapkis (ponds) would be constructed.
14.       Dam Catchment Conservation Measures
(i) Master ridges would be marked with a plow on the contour
so that all cultivation would follow the contour, 3 lines
per 20 ha should be sufficient.
(ii) The Conservation Engineer would locate natural or artificial
water ways approximately 1,000 m apart. He would shape them
to the required size and if necessary have them grassed. In
the second year when the grass had established, 'vee' ditches
or cut-off drains would be constructed.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Specifications. The diversion ditches (cut-off drains) would be
approximately 1,000 m long draining both ways into the grassed waterway.
The ditches would have a cross sectional area of 0.8 m2 (37 cm deep and
3.6 m wide) and have a grade of 1:400 and be 250 m apart.
Equipment Required. 1 x 125 hp motor grader, 1 x 75 hp tractor
and plow.
15.       Conservation of Other Areas.  A conservation unit would be attached
to the road unit, and as the roads progressed master ridges would be construct-
ed with a plow over an area extending approximately 2 km each side of the road.
3 master ridges per 20 ha would be sufficient. At the same time lines for
future access roads to villages or group of farms would be marked, the natural
drainage ways would also be demarcated so that they would be left out of cul-
tivation and allowed to revert to grass. In addition farmers should be en-
couraged to practice tie ridges (boxed ridges). The ties would be 1 to 2 m
apart and half the height of ridges. This would give maximum absoption in the
early light rains. In the heavy rains the ties would break and allow the ex-
cess water to drain off. Ties would be replaced towards the end of the rains
to assist in improving the infiltration of the late rains.
16.       Tapkis.  These would be constructed by a 140 hp angle dozer in
shallow depressions with a catchment area of 15 to 20 ha. Should the site
chosen have insufficient catchment, the catchment would be increased by the
use of diversion ditches.
Method. The dozer would scoop out the earth over an area approx-
imately 40 m x 30 m with an average depth of 1.7 m. The embankment would be
made around the lower end giving a small increase to the holding capacity of
the tapki.  The diversion ditches would be constructed by the motor grader
on a 1:500 grade with a capacity of 0.8 m2 (37 cm deep and 3.6 m wide).
These would stop short of the tapki and be allowed to discharge towards a
bank 1 m high, 1 m thick and of sufficient length to allow the water to
circulate around the bank into the tapkis. This would reduce the velocity
and cause the silt to be deposited outside the tapki.
Equipment. No additional equipment would be required for tapki
construction as construction by the conservation unit would be done during
the crop growing season. About 160 tapkis would be constructed during the
life of the project.






NIGERIA
N1RTH EASTERN STATE
GCM4BE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Water and Soil Conservation Develoiment Costs
(Naira)
Foreign Exchange      Local
Unit        Unit Cost     Number         Year 1         Year 2          Year 3          Year 4         Year 5           Total       F           Cost      Cost
Plant. Vehicles and Equipment
Tractor dozer/ripper 140 hp           No.         32,8OO             I       (1)   32,800         -               -              -               -             32,800     90         29,520      3,280
Tractor dozer/ripper 180 hp           No.         51,900             1       (1)   51,900         -               _              _               -             51,900     90        46,710       5,190
Self-propelled scraper 150 hp         No.         37,600             2      (2)   75,200                  -                      -               -             75,200     90         67,680      7,520
Hotorgrader 125 hp                    No.         29,400             1       (1)   29,400         -               _                              -             29,400     90         26,460      2,940
Agric. tractor 65 hp                  No.          4,000             4       (4)   16,000         -               -              -               -             16,000     90         14,400      1,600
Compactor                             No.          4,000             1       (1)    4,000         -               -              -               -              4.000     90          3,600        400
Water bowser                          No.          1,000             3       (3)    3,000         -               -              -               -              3.000     90          2,700        300
Fuel bovser                           No.          4,5OO             2       (2)    9,000         -               -              -               -              9,000     90          8,100        900
Concrete mixer                        No.           1,000            2       (1)    1,000         -               -        (1)    1,000          -              2,000     90          1,800         200
Water pumps                           No.             500            8       (4)    2,000         -               -        (4)    2,000          -              4,000     90          3,600        400
Generator 2.5 kv                      No.           1,000            1       (1)    2,500         -               -              -               -              2,500     90          2,250         250
Caravan                               No.          3,000             5       (5)   15,000         -               -              -               -             15,000     90         13,500      1,500
Crew vehicle 4 vd                     No.          4,000             6       (3)   12,000         -               -        (3)   12,000          -             24,000     90         21,600      2,400
Pickup trucks 1 ton                   No.          3,200             4       (2)    6,400         -               -        (2)    6,400          -             12,800     60          7,680      5,120
Lorry 7 ton                           No.          8,000             2       (1)    8,000         -               -        (1)    8,000          -             16,000     60          9,600      6,400
Survey equipment                      Set         10,000             1       (1)   10,000         -               -              -               -             10,000     60          6,000      4,000
Sub total                                                              278,200          -              -               29,400          -           307,600      86       265,200      42,400
Construction Materials and Labor
Concrete                              Per dam       1,000           85       (5)    5,000  (20)   20,000  (20)   20,000  (20)   20,000  (20)   20,000          85,000      -           -         85,000
Fencing                               Per dam       1,000           85       (5)    5,000  (20)   20,000  (20)   20,000  (20)   20,000  (20)   20,000          85,000     50         42,500     42,500
Pipes, fittings etc.                  Per dam      2,000            85       (5)   10,000  (20)   40,000  (20)   40,000  (20)   40,000  (20)   40,000         170,000     80        136,000     34,000
Tents and camping gear                Set         12,000             1       (1)   12,000         -               -               -              -             12,000     80          9,600       2,400
Labor                                 Mondays           1.0     42,000              2,000          10,000         10,000          10,000         10,000        42,ooo      -           -        42,000
Sub total                                                                34,000         90,000          90,000         90,000          90,000       394,000     48        188,100    205,900
Plant and Equipment Operating
Tractor dozer/ripper 140 hp           Hours             6.19     8,240              1,486          12,380         12,380          12,380          12,380       51,006      34        17,342      33,664
Tractor dozer/ripper 180 hp           Hours             9.01     8,240              2,162          18,020         18,020          18,020          18,020       74,242      37        27,470      46,772
Self-propelled scraper 150 hp         Hours             7.89    16,480              3,787          31,560         31,560          31,560          31,560      130,027      44        57,212      72,815
Motorgrader 125 hp                    Hours             7.19     8,240              1,726          14,380         14,380          14,380          14,380       59,246      44        26,068      33,178
Agric. tractor and compactor 65 hp   Hours              2.51     8,240                602           5,020          5,020           5,020           5,020       20,682      44         9,100      11,582
Agric. tractor (with plow)            Hours             1.39    24,720              1,001           8,340          8,340           8,340           8,340       34,361      44        15,119      19,242
Crew vehicle 4 wd                     Hours             1.62    16,800              1,944           6,318          6,318           6,318           6,318       27,216      44        11,975      15,241
Pickup truck 3S ton                   Hours             1.40    11,000                840           3,640          3,640           3,640           3,640       15,400      44         6,776       8,624
Lorry 7 ton                           Hours             2.34     8,300                702           4,680          4,680           4,680           4,680        19,422     44         8,546      10,876
Other                                 Per annum       500                             500             500             500            500             500         2,500     44          1,100      1,400
Sub total                                                                14,750        104,838         104,838         104,838        104,838       434,102      47       180,708    253,394
Total                                                                   326,950         194,838        194,838         274,238         194,838    1,135,702               634.008    501,694
March 1, 1974
X x






ANNEX 6
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMtBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization, Staff Requirements and Training
A.   Organization
1.        The project organization as described in Chapter VI of the main
report would assume responsibility for all existing functions of NNR within
the project area except for those aspects concerning animal health, fisheries,
forestry, and irrigation. The project organization would follow the pattern
as shown at Schedule 1 of this annex and would comprise a project executive
committee, primarily controlling policy, budgets and audits, and operational
project management unit responsible for the day-to-day operations involved in
implementation of project policies. The project executive committee and man-
agement unit would be established by a Govern-gazetted order, a proposed draft
which is at Schedule II.
2.        The Gombe Project Management Unit (GOPMU) would operate through a
number of sections; the head of each would be responsible to the Project
Manager. The sections would be: Administration, Finance, Technical Services,
Credit Services, Market Services, and Engineering Services.
3.        The Administration Section would be responsible for personnel
administration, maintenance of records, organization of project transport,
office administration, project security and public relations.
4.        The Finance Section would be responsible for budgeting, budget
control, internal audit, procurement, stores, salary payments, accounting
procedures, cost accounting, etc. It would help in setting up financial
procedures for the revolving credit fund, and would conduct the internal
audit of the fund.
5.        The Technical Services Section would provide basic technical support
and services to all those project actions designed to increase farmer produc-
tivity including:
(a) Development Services would provide the coordinating link between
marketing, credit and extension. The project would have 5
development centers each serving a development area and con-
trolled by a Development Officer who would coordinate all project
activities within the area. Apart from coordination, the Devel-
opment Officer would be directly responsible for extension



ANNEX 6
Page 2
services. The latter would be organized on the basis of one
Agricultural Assistant (AA) for each farm service center. 1/
In turn each AA would supervise a number of Agricultural
Instructors (AI) who would work at the hamlet level. The
AA and AI would provide basic extension advice to farmers
and groups of farmers. Associated with the extension
service would be a small livestock advisory unit that would
(i) identify livestock problems and make recommendations
for livestock programs within the area; and (ii) provide
advice on practical animal husbandry to those farmers engaged
in livestock operations sponsored by the project. In this
connection close liaison would be maintained with NNR
veterinary services.
(b) Seed Farms. Two seed farms at Kumo and Tumu would be devel-
oped to provide part of project seed requirements in conjunction
with contract operations by some of the larger farmers in nearby
areas. The seed farms would also be used for practical demon-
stration purposes, applied research and training. Seed farm
managers would also provide management advice to larger
"icommercial" farmers within the project area. These farmers
would be directed to NAB and/or commercial banks for farm
credit, and GOPMU would assist them in this.
(c) Tractor Hire Services, now supplied by MNR, would be con-
tinued under the project but would be phased out gradually in
favor of private contractors sponsored by the project.
(d) Training would be undertaken at the Tumu training center,
the capacity of which would be expanded from 20 to 40
students, and at a new center to be constructed at Kumo.
The two centers would be used initially for training and
retraining project staff in extension, credit, marketing,
and other disciplines. As the project develops, more of
the available training capacity would be allocated to
project area farmers.
6.        The Credit Services Section would be developed in parallel to the
development services and would be structured around the Development Centers
and at the village service centers at farmer level. The service would provide
farmers with inputs on credit or for cash, assist in recovery of repayments,
1/   Some of the villages in the project area comprise up to 8,000 farm
families, and cover a very wide area. Thus under the project, allow-
ance has been made for the location of service centres to be made on
an area basis of about one centre to 100 km2. Thus some village would
be served by more than 1 centre.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
and keep accounts. Credit service personnel would be project employees,
but in matters concerning the making of loans and recovery of credit. An
area Credit Officer would control credit activities within each development
area, and each village service center would have two Credit Assistants (Annex
9 gives details).
7.        The Market Services Section would be responsible for product inspec-
tion at produce markets, for market liaison and information, and for the control
and monitoring of Licensed Buying Agents (LBA). It would also be responsible
for the development of group marketing systems, and where necessary for linking
producers directly with distant consumers, e.g. contracts for maize supply to
southern feed mill operators. Each Development Center would have a marketing
supervisor assisted by two market assistants. A produce examiner would be
posted to each farm service center to service its market. Marketing services
would be responsible for the logistics involved in handling and distributing
farm inputs. In this respect the produce examiners would act as storekeepers
during the period when markets are closed, and when the main handling and
distribution of inputs would occur.
8.        The Engineering Services Section would be primarily responsible
for implementation of the physical infrastructural program for the project.
It would determine design and make specifications for buildings, houses,
offices, etc., prepare tender documents, evaluate bids, and supervise
contractors. It would be responsible for the procurement of all plant,
vehicles and equipment, and for their operation and maintenance. It would
prepare designs for roads and associated structures, dams, and soil conser-
vation works, anu would ensure their construction according to plan. It
would operate a project workshop. Finally, it would have a special land
use section to provide support for other project units as well as to provide
information directly relevant to civil works construction. In all instances,
it would work closely with Ministry of Works engineers.
B.   Staff Requirements
9.        Details of the number of staff needed for the project, their
availability within the State and probable shortfalls are shown at Tables
1-5 of this Annex. Job descriptions and qualifications for the more senior
positions are at Schedule 3. In general existing staff in the State ha-7e
received inadequate training and experience to permit them to effectively
manage and operate the project and, therefore, internationally recruited
staff would be necessary for some of the key posts. Existing staff in the
project area would come under the project and additional staff would be
transferred to the project from other areas of the State. Priority during
the first two years would be given to the project for those Agricultural
Assistants completing ongoing training courses. On this basis sufficient
professional and technical staff would be available. Junior technical staff,
particularly agricultural instructors (AI), would be recruited and trained
by the project at its own training centers. Such training would initially



ANNEX 6
Page 4
comprise of simple short courses on specific crops and associated problems.
The AI would receive further training after a period of field experience
and, thereafter, regular refresher courses. Inexperienced credit and market-
ing staff would be trained in a similar manner through a series of inservice
training courses.
10.       The Project Executive Committee on the advice of the Project Manager
would be responsible for the appointment of all senior staff. Staff appoint-
ments at lower levels would be the responsibility of the Manager in consulta-
tion with relevant Government departments from which particular transfers or
secondments might be made. Staff salaries are compatible with existing Gov-
ernment scales, and would from time to time be reviewed by the Committee.
C.   Staff Training
11.       Professional training is provided at universities throughout
Nigeria.  The Ahmadu Bello University at Zaria in the North Central State
caters especially for the six northern States, although northern students
attend both Federal and State financed universities elsewhere in Nigeria,
and abroad. A degree in agriculture is given by ABU and the project would
expect to recruit some of its professional staff as they graduate from
ABU.
12.       Diplomate (3 year course for holders of West African School
Certificate) and certificate (2 year) level training is the responsibility
of the Division of Agriculture and Livestock Service Training (DALST) of
ABU. Graduates of these courses are employed by the Ministries of Agriculture
and Natural Resources of the northern States.
13.       Four schools are operated by DALST:
(a) Samaru (North Central State)
Offering, at present, certificate courses in extension,
farm mechanics, home economics and a diploma course in
home economics. Expansion of this school, planned for
completion by 1975, would add diploma courses in farm
mechanics and extension to the syllabus.
(b) Bakura (North Western State)
Offering a certificate course in irrigation agronomy;
presently located at Samaru pending completion of the
new school at Bakura.
(c) Kaduna Livestock Service Training Center (North
Central State)
Offering certificate courses in livestock and range
management, and diploma courses in animal products
inspection, and range management.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
(d) Kabba (Kwara State)
Offering diploma courses in agriculture at present,
and certificate courses in agriculture from 1974.
14.       Present enrollment at these schools is as follows:
lst Year      2nd Year
School /1              Course                Students       Students
Samaru      1st year agricultural /2           215              -
Agricultural Assistant (AA)
farm mechanics                     -             16
AA extension                         -             59
Home Economics Assistant (HA)
home economics                    40             22
Diploma home economics               -             12
Bakura      Irrigation agronomy                  40             25
Kaduna      Livestock assistant /2               81            41
Diploma animal health               16             13
Diploma range management             -             12
Kabba       Diploma in agriculture /3           198
Total             590            200
/1   The capacity of these schools is being increased and it is forecast
that by 1975 Samaru would have a capacity for 600 students and the
other schools 300 students each.
/2   1st year general course with opportunity to specialize in the second
year.
/3   Special course to give existing Ministry technical staff the opportunity
to upgrade to AS (1972 only).
15.       The output of diplomates (Agricultural Superintendents) and certi-
ficate holders (Agricultural Assistants) bonded to work through the terms
of their scholarships for North Eastern State is forecast as follows:
1974 - 18; 1975 - 32; and 1976 - 36. These, together with intra State
transfers, would meet project requirements (see Table 2).
16.       The existing training of agricultural extension staff, graduates,
diplomates and certificate holders is sadly lacking in practical farm



ANNEX 6
Page 6
management, and the ability of senior staff in the field to give advice to
farmers directed at increasing profit margins needs to be greatly improved.
At present extension staff tend to give blanket advice without considering
economic implications. Training establishments, for both senior and junior
staff should improve the quality of their farm management training.
17.       Farm training centers are operated by North Eastern State and
graduate Agricultural Instructors (AI), the lowest grade of extension worker.
The State also has farm institutes for training farmers and farmers' sons.
Under the project, it is proposed to upgrade the existing Tumu Farm Institute
to a Farm Training Center, and to build a new Farm Training Center at Kumo.
These centers would be used to train, in the initial years of the project,
project staff particularly AI and Credit Assistants. Later on the emphasis
would be more on farmer training.
18.       The recruitment of individuals for training as agricultural
instructors, Credit Assistants, etc., should not cause too many problems
since the basic primary level of education is relatively good throughout
northern Nigeria, and there is an increasing surplus of West African School
Certificate holders on the labor market.
19.       Staff recruited by the project would be expected to have certain
minimum qualifications: Agricultural Officers - degree in agriculture;
Agricultural Superintendents - diploma or upgraded from lower level;
Agricultural Assistant - certificate; Agricultural Instructor - primary
seven; Credit Officer - degree or diploma, or certificate in accountancy
preferably with some commercial bank experience; Credit Assistants - West
African School Certificate; Market Supervisor - degree holder or relevant
experience in market organization; Marketing Assistant - West African
School Certificate; Produce Inspector - primary seven; Rural Engineers -
engineering degree.
20.       The terms and conditions of the employment of project personnel would
conform with those established for all employees of the State Government except
that professional and technical grade staff would be provided housing as an
incentive to live and work in remote areas, and that the Board would establish
contract terms for both expatriate and Nigerian contract staff. For expatriate
staff, contract terms would take into account the international market for such
staff and the benefits that normally accrue to such appointments. For Nigerian
staff contract terms would provide similar benefits as normal pensionable Gov-
ernment staff but would also provide for a gratuity (to be determined by GOPEC)
in lieu of a pension.
21.       Management Training.  In addition to technical staff training,
project management would play an important role in training staff to fill
managerial positions. In this respect internationally recruited staff would,
as one of their responsibilities, ensure the adequate training of their



ANNEX 6
Page 7
subordinates, and would be required to submit to GOPEC through the project
manager, quarterly reports on the training aspects of their section. The
project manager would have the overall responsibility for ensuring an adequate
management training program is maintained and would report regularly on its
progress. There are sufficient funds available for the recruitment of a
training specialist if the project manager so requires.






NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
EXECUTVE CouNCI
M,A
NOT. EARTERN S.TAT
j   CREDIT SERVIESA  MINISTRYl                                AMNSRAIN           l l       MAKTSPIES           | |       _      IL                          EA  ASN                  EhIAtSPle 
L      C       3         -|      RGCFEMNTS l -ESROURCES                              _    COSFECTION                 |       WTE E                  _       SUVYR-                       TANN 
I                        MINISY ~~~~~~~OF
-|        SECURITYRAL_{   FAU M IRURS
COOIR.-FVEG
COMITTEE
SoSSR WMOECT
EXIEUTIVE COMMITTEE
C.RAMA: MEM. SMC -RS.,
SECTESM~ ~~~omvipoC
FINACEEREDIMA ALTTAT                       | UELITAD   NO     C             MANE        UFFITER                                                                     T         SEMES
MONITORING ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     'lE`GNEAE                                                'C.CL0
COMF.W                                                                                                                                                    ECTI~~~~~~~~~~~          .,El 'ECH.   F.CER~~~PRJEC IAROR
GAIE  AMESCEDTSEVCS  IANEAMIITRTO                            MRETSRVCSENIEEIGSEVCE                                           V V  CTO
COPN  ROTMAAE  RE   CCUTN    hE  AUN  FIE                 RIFMRE   FICRCIFEGNERSC  NCIR  ER  FIE
ACONS    CONT  ESONLMRKTPANIG&PRT   NLYI                                                                                     EC   OTPLCTO
ISTELIIOCNCE  lASS USE       MAPPING                      EURO' 'AMA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WOldD.k-2214\                   $l






ANNEX 6
Schedule 2
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH EAST STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPlENT PROJECT
Establishment of Project Management Unit
1.        As a condition of loan effectiveness the North East State Executive
Council would be required to publish an "order" in the State Government Gazette
establishing the Gombe Project Management Unit (GOPMU) and the Gombe Project
Executive Committee (GOPEC). The order would set out the objectives and re-
sponsibilities of GOPMU and GOPEC, and would include the following:
2.        The GOPMU would be managed by a Project Manager and its objectives
should be:
(a) development of the project area with a view to increasing
production of agriculture and raising the living standards
of the rural population;
(b) construction of roads, water supplies and soil conservation
works associated with agricultural development;
(c) development and management of seed multiplication farms;
(d) training of project staff and farmers;
(e) provision of village service centers and stores;
(f) provision of extension, credit and marketing services;
(g) procurement of farm inputs; and
(h) development of supporting infrastructure such as houses,
buildings, offices etc. for the above services.
3.        The GOPMU would be controlled by the Gombe Project Executive
Committee (GOPEC) which would be made up as follows:



ANNEX 6
Schedule 2
Page 2
(a)  Permanent Secretary  -  Ministry of Natural Resources
(b)  Representative        -  Ministry of Finance
(c)  Representative        -  Ministry of Local Government
(d)  Representative        -  Ministry of Transport and Works
(e)  Representative        -  Ministry of Economic Planning
(f)  Representative        -  NES Water Board
(g)  Director of Federal Department of Agriculture or representative
(h)  Chief Agricultural Officer, for the North East State
(i)  Representative of the Nigerian Agricultural Bank
(j)  Two members from the project area to be appointed by the
Military Governor
The Project Manager would be the Secretary of the GOPEC.
4.        GOPEC would be responsible to the Commissioner of Natural Resources
and would have the following responsibilities:
(a)  Policy.   GOPEC would deterrine agricultural and development
policy, and would consult with the Federal Government and the
World Bank when any major changes in policy may be required;
(b)  Finance.
(i)  GOPEC would approve the annual budget and would ensure
that sufficient Government funds are readily available
to the project;
(ii)  GOPEC would appoint independent auditors;
(iii) GOPEC would submit audited statement of accounts to th_!
Commissioner of Agriculture within four months of the
closure of each financial year;
(iv) GOPEC would approve the opening of project bank accounts-
and
(v)  the Chairm.an of GOPEC would approve the monthly cash klo^
statements submitted by the manager of GOPMU;
(vi)   approve annually the terms of lending to project fni-'
on the basis of recommendations made by GOPMUT;
(c)  Staff and Personnel Matters.  In consultation with the Man '.-
of GOPMU, GOPEC would be responsible for the appointment of a:.0.
senior project staff and employees, their terms and conditioss
of employment and annual review of salaries and allowances;



ANNEX 6
Schedule 2
Page 3
(d) Award of Contracts. GOPEC would on the advice of the Manager
of GOPI4U be responsible for approval of any single contract
valued at more than N 30,000;
(e) Inter-Departmental Coordination. The GOPEC through its members
would be responsible for the coordination at Ministry level
for those issues that may effect the proper development of
the project.
Meetings of GOPEC
5.   (a)  The Chairman would preside over all the meetings of the GOPEC
which he attends, and in his absence the present members would
appoint one of their number to preside over such a meeting.
(b) The Chairman of the GOPEC would invite the GOPEC to meet at such
time and place as he may think suitable; provided that no more
than three months would elapse between any meeting and the
next. In the absence of the Chairman, the Manager would call
the GOPEC to meet whenever he deems this necessary.
(c) Six members of the GOPEC would constitute a quorum of any meeting
of the GOPEC. The GOPEC would pass its decisions by the Majority
of the votes of its members present and voting, and in case of
equality of votes the Chairman would have a casting vote.
(d) The GOPEC may call any person to attend any of its meetings
without that person having a counted vote.
6.        GOPMU would be resronsible to GOPEC for the day to day operations of
the project. In particular it would be responsible for the carrying out of
the objectives as stated in para 2 above. GOPMU would be managed by a Project
Manager who would report directly to the Chairman of GOPEC. The main duties
of GOPMU would be:
(a) the implementation of an agricultural development program
within the project area following the policy guidelines of
the GOPEC;
(b) the control and operation of the project revolving credit fund;
(c) the preparation of annual budgets and cash flows for approval
by GOPEC. In particular GOPMU would submit to the Chairman of
the GOPEC monthly cash flow statements indicating any changes
in requirements for State Government ftnds due to changes in
project expenditures and inflow anticipated from the Federal
Government. Unless informed to the contrary within 5 days of
dispatch of such statements to the Chairman of the GOPEC, the
manager would be authorized to make the proposed expenditures.



ANNEX 6
Schedule 2
Page 4
(d) the recruitment of project staff, in consultation, when
necessary with other Government Departments, and for senior
staff, with approval of GOPEC;
(e) the advertising, negotiating, calling for tenders, and after
approval from GOPEC, for concluding such contracts with persons
and organizations either inside or outside the State for the
erection of buildings, the construction of civil works and
the supply of goods, services and materials as may seem to be
requisite for the proper discharge of its duties;
(f) the operation of project bank accounts;
(g) the preparation of reimbursement claims against project
expenditure, for submission to the Federal Government and
the World Bank.
7.        GOPMU would administer a field evaluation unit that would be tech-
nically directed by a Federal Government controlled Project Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit (PMEU).
X.        GOPMU would prepare quarterly and annual reports for tne simultaneous
submission to GOPEC, North East State Executive Council, Federal Government
of Nigeria and the World Bank.
9.        GOPMU would be delegated any additional duties and powers by GOPEC
to ensure the attainment of the objectives as set out in this order.



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Job Descriptions and Qualifications of Senior Staff
PROJECT MANAGER
Experience would be the main criteria for the selection of a
Project Manager, although a formal qualification in agriculture would be
important.
At least 10 years' experience in successful agricultural develop-
ment work in the field, including development-orientated projects, preferably
in Africa, would be required. A high degree of administrative ability, an
experience in dealing with the highest level of Government, especially in
committee work, and previous involvement in extension in small farmer commu-
nities would all be necessary.
The responsibilities of the Project Manager would be the overall
and complete control of all project activities and the coordination of all
project activities with those of other Federal and State Government agencies
and local authorities.
His duties would include:
(a) control of all project funds with the assistance of the
Chief accountant;
(b) establishment of a cost analysis and record keeping system
which would enable project progress and achievement to be
monitored and a meaningful evaluation of the project's
impact possible;
(c) responsibility for project personnel matters with the
assistance of the Chief Administrative Officer;
(d) coordination of all project activities;
(e) reporting project Drogress to Government through written
reports and through the various project committees; and
(f) training project staff and ensuring a proper management
training program is successfully implemented.



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 2
The Project Manager would be responsible to the Chairman of the
Gombe Project Executive Committee (the Chairman being the Permanent Secretary
of the Ministry of Natural Resources).
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER
The Chief Administrative Officer would be a very senior civil
servant; or have had equivalent experience in a major public corporation or
private company.
In previous employment he would have undertaken senior administra-
tive responsibility, and have gained a thorough understanding of government
procedures.
His duties would include:
(a) responsibility for all project personnel;
(b) project transportation;
(c) maintenance of a project registry;
(d) the physical control and checking of project stores;
(e) the general project security;
(f) the public relations aspects of the project; and
(g) training administration staff.
He would be directly responsible to the Project Manager.
CHIEF ACCOUNTANT
The Chief Accountant would be a professionally qualified accountant
with additional training in business management. He should have had at least
10 years' experience in a senior position in a large public corporation or
commercial company. If possible, he would have a knowledge of banking and
credit procedures. Previous employment involving working with high ranking
government officials would be an advantage.
His main responsibility would be the control of all project
finances on behalf of the Project Manager. His duties would include:
(a) preparation of budgets, cash flows and estimates of expenditure
for the project;
(b) ensuring correct application for Droject funds;



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 3
(c) assisting the Credit Manager in establishing an efficient
and meaningful system of recording agricultural credit
transactions;
(d) the responsibilities for project stores and requisites,
with the assistance of the section and department heads,
and for stores control and audit procedures;
(e) internal auditing of project accounts; and
(f) training accounting staff.
CHIEF TECHNICAL OFFICER
The Chief Technical Officer would be a qualified Agriculturalist.
He would have a thorough knowledge of tropical crop production and related
problems.
He would have had at least 5 years experience in extension work
with small farmers where cotton, groundnuts and cereals were part of the
cropping system.
He would be responsible for all technical aspects of the project
and his duties specifically would include:
(a) organizing research, and seed multiplication and distribution,
with the assistance of the Seeds Officer and Farm Managers;
(b) supervision of the training program for all extension staff;
(c) organizing and ensuring the effectiveness of extension
services in the project area;
(d) supervising the Livestock Advisor, the Farm Machinery
Section and the Farm Management Advisor; and
(e) liaising with and assisting the Market Section to ensure
it meets the project's requirements in marketing.
He would be directly responsible to the Project Manager, and would
assist the Project Manager in his dealings with other government and local
authority agencies in matters related to the Technical Services.
CHIEF ENGINEER
The Chief Engineer should be a qualified civil engineer. Some
training in mechanical engineering would be an added advantage.



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 4
He would have had at least 5 years' experience in the problems of
rural engineering in developing countries. A sound knowledge and experience
in road, water, and soil conservation engineering would be considered essen-
tial. He would have had senior administrative responsibility in the engin-
eering field and would be accustomed to working with government agencies.
His duties would include:
(a) control of all project engineering activities;
(b) budgetary control;
(c) the preparation of all tenders, contracts, and quantity
surveys;
(d) supervision of land use planning, and the design of project
roads, buildings and dams; and
(e) for the efficient coordination of the different units of the
Project engineering services, and close liaison with those
other Government departments, such as the Ministry of Works and
the Ministry of Local Government who may be associated with the
project.
He would be directly responsible to the Project Manager.
CREDIT MANAGER
The Credit Manager would be a professionally qualified accountant
with a demonstrable sound working knowledge of the establishment and corpo-
ration of rural credit institutions. He would have at least 5 years of
experience in responsible positions in smallholder rural credit administra-
tion, and have a record of sound administrative ability. Experience in the
formation of farmerst credit groups or societies and working with these
organizations, and/or cooperatives, would be an advantage.
Hlis prime responsibility would be the control of project farmer
credit operation; which would involve initially the disbursement of loans
in kind and their recovery.
llis responsibilities would include:
(a) formation of a Revolving Credit Fund as outlined in the
project appraisal report;
(b) establishing an efficient accounting and recording system
for farmers' loans;
(c) requisitioning of funds and other required inputs for
timely disbursement and supply to farmers;



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 5
(d) liaison with the Evaluation Unit to provide data and
information needed in project evaluation; and
(e) training of credit staff.
The Credit Manager would be responsible to the Project Manager.
CHIEF MARKETING OFFICER
Senior management responsibility in a large marketing organization
would be the principal qualification of the Chief Marketing Officer.
He would have experience in the production, primary marketing and
selling of tropical crops, particularly cotton, groundnuts and maize.
He would be responsible for the project's Marketing Services, and
his duties would include:
(a) monitoring and controlling the operations of all licensed
buying agents operating in the project area:
(b) establishing a market information service;
(c) liaison with the statutory marketing boards and other
organizations private and public to ensure the effective
marketing and smooth flow of produce from the project
area; and
(d) coordinating with the Credit Manager to establish a system
of credit collection at time of crop marketing.
He would be directly responsible to the Project Manager.
SENIOR FARM MANAGER
The Senior Farm Manager would have some formal training in Agri-
culture, but more importantly would have had at least 10 years' successful
experience in managing large commercially oriented farms in the tropics.
A specific experience of cotton, groundnuts, sorghum and maize production,
or at least two of these crops would be required. Previous experience in
growing these and other crops for seed production would be helpful. A sound
knowledge of farm recording and accounting procedures would be essential.
The Senior Farm Manager would manage one of the project farms and
would, through another manager, be respons_ble for the second project farm.
In total he would be responsible for the eEficient operation of units growing
cotton, groundnuts and cereals for seed.



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 6
His duties would include:
(a) budget preparation and cash flow control for the farm;
(b)  preparation and implementation of a cropping plan for
the farm;
(c) establishment, maintenance and operating of a suitable
seed dressing and cleaning unit for the farm;
(d) procuring, maintaining, and operating appropriate farm
machinery;
(e) control of farm labor;
(f) assisting the Farm Management Advisor in providing advice
and assisting the large privately owned farm units of the
project area, especially those growing seed on contract;
(g) liaison with the Seeds Officer on technical seed production
matters; and
(h) training junior staff in practical large scale farming.
He would be responsible to the Chief Technical Officer.
SEEDS OFFICER
The Seeds Officer would have had formal training in Agriculture or
Agricultural Botany. He would have had specific experience in commercial
large scale seed production, preferably with at least two of the following:
cotton, groundnuts, maize, and sorghum. He would advise the Managers of the
Seed Multiplication Farms on seed production and would be responsible for
ensuring the distribution of improved seeds to farmers in the project area.
His duties would include:
(a) advising and assisting the Farm Managers in procuring and
operating suitable seed cleaning and dressing units;
(b) sponsoring progressive farmers in seed production and
thereafter for advising them in seed production techniques;
(c) the building up of a viable seed industry in the project
area; and
(d) the training of technical and professional project
personnel in seed production and distribution.



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 7
He would be responsible to the Chief Technical Officer.
LIVESTOCK OFFICER
The Livestock Officer would have formal training in Veterinary
Science or Animal Husbandry and would have had experience in Animal Husbandry
work in tropical countries.
He would be responsible for the preparation of a long term plan
for livestock development within the project area. This would be based on
an analysis of the potential for on-farm systems of livestock and associated
feed production, and inter alia, would be aimed at the evolvement of systems
to make better use of communal grazing lands.
LAND USE PLANNING OFFICER
The Land Use Planning Officer would have had formal training in
agricultural, soil science, or land resource use; land surveying and photo-
grammetry. Previous experience in Land Resource work and associated land
and agricultural development planning would be essential.
Duties of the Land Use Planning Officer would be to:
(a) prepare specifications for the production of aerial photographs
and uncontrolled mosaics of the project area;
(b)  undertake a complete photo analysis of the project area and
prepare land use resource maps and inventory of the area;
(c)  plan, in conjunction with the Chief Technical Officer,
the location of roads and dams to be constructed under
the project;
(d) prepare all drawings, etc. of dam, soil conservation and
road designs that may be submitted by the engineering
sections of the project;
(e) undertake any such other mapping and surveying considered
necessary by the Chief Engineer:
(f) undertake photoanalytical work that may he required by the
evaluation unit or Chief Technical Officer;
(g) give general guidance on Land Resource use to Engineering
and Technical Services staff; and
(h)  train Nigeria staff in land use and associated techniques.
He would be directly responsible to the Chief Engineer.



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 8
SOIL AND W4ATER CONSERVATION ENGINEER
The Soil and Water Conservation Engineer would have had formal
training in engineering, preferably related to dam construction and soil
conservation. He would have had at least 5 years' experience in earth dam
construction and soil conservation in Africa. He would be responsible for
overall supervision of the dam construction and soil conservation component
of the project. His responsibilities would include:
(a) survey and design of water catchment areas and dams;
(b) design planning, and supervision of construction of all
soil conservation work;
(c) liaison with the Road Engineer and Land Use Planning Officer
in integrating dam construction and soil conservation works
into a general land use plan and the road building program;
and
(d) training project staff in dam construction and soil conser-
vation work.
The Soil and Water Conservation Engineer would be responsible to
the Chief Engineer.
MECHANICAL ENGINEER
The Mechanical Engineer would be a professionally qualified engin-
eer with specific experience in operating and maintaining heavy earth moving
machinery. His principal duties and responsibilities would be supervising
the operation and maintenance of all project plant, equipment, and vehicles.
His duties would include:
(a) establishment of a workshop capable of maintaining project
plant, equipment and vehicles;
(b) ordering and maintaining an appropriate supply of stores
and spare parts;
(c) ordering and maintaining an adequate and suitable fuel
supply; and
(d) training of Nigerian mechanical engineers.
He would be directly responsible to the Chief Engineer.



ANNEX 6
Schedule 3
Page 9
ROAD ENGINEER
Successful experience in the design, construction and maintenance
of earth roads in tropical climates would be the main qualification of the
Road Engineer. The Road Engineer would be responsible for implementing the
project road program. His duties would include:
(a) advising the Chief Engineer on road design, drainage and water
disposal, culverts and river crossing designs:
(b) the direction of all machinery and equipment put at his disposal
for construction purposes;
(c) the preparation and maintenance of records adequate to enable
unit costs to be established;
(d) evaluation of road construction program and techniques used; and
(e) training Nigerian engineers in road design and construction
methods.
He would be directly responsible to the Chief Engineer.
SENIOR EVALUATION OFFICER
A senior evaluation officer would be required to direct the field
enumeration units attached to the project. IHis job would be essentially to
supervise enumerators, implementing programls set out by the Head of the
evaluation section of the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU),
and feed back the required information for analysis. His views and sugges-
tions would be taken into account during the programming of the enumeration
process and any subsequent amendments to it. fie would be technically re-
sponsible to the Head of PILU evaluation section and administratively re-
sponsible to the project manager.
The senior evaluation officer would have post graduate training in
agricultural economics or rural economics and would have controlled and di-
rected field enumeration units.






NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GONBE AGRICULXURAL DEVEL4OPMENT PROJECT
Staff Requirements: project Adminiatration - Read office
--- Year I-  -- Year 2--            --Year 3--        --Year 4--       --Year 5--        --Year 6--        --Year 7--       -Year 8--    Years 9-25
Status          SOO0C L   SOOC L   SOOC L   SOO0C L   SOOC L   SOOC L   SOO0C L   SOOC L   soOC L
Project Manager                             International  I.-                 I---                 ---           1  -  -  -        -  -  -  -        -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -        -  -  -  -        -  -  -  -
Project Manager                             Local                     -   -  -  -       -  -  -  -----             1     ---                 -        1     ---                 -1-               --                -
Chief Administrative officer                Local1---                          1---              1--- I  -  -  -  I---                                I---                 ---           I---              I---
Chief Accountant                            International  I---                1--- I  -  -  -            I---                         ---            I---             ---- -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -
Principal Accountants                       Local             1---             2 ---    2 - --    2 - --    2 - --    2 - --    I1--1--- -
Accountants                                 Local             - 2- -    -4- -    - 4 --    - 4- -    - 4--    - 4--2--                                                                      2--2-
Executive Officers                          Local             -  3-  -          -5  --           -5  ---              5  --             5                3                 3                 33
Confidential Secretary                      Local             - 2 --    - 2 --    - 2- -                           -2 --    - 2--                        2              -2--                2--2-
Clerical Officers & Stenographers           Local             -  -  5  -       -  - 10  -        -  - 10  -       -- 10  -          -  - lo                 lo -1   -  -  - 10  -        -  - 10  -        -  -lo0  -
Clerical Assistants l/                      Local             - -15 -           - -30 -          - -45 -            --45-           - -45-            - 15-             - -15 -          - -15 -           --15 -
Messengers and Casual Labor                 Local             - --10            -  --  20        -  --  20         -  --  20        - -- 20           -  -  - 12       -  --  12         - -- 12           -  -     -12
Total Requirement                                       4  7 20 10        5 11 40 20       5 11 55 20        6 11 55 20       5 1I 55 20        5  9 25 12        3  7 25 12       3  7 25 12        3  7 25 12
Incremental Requirement                                      4  7 20 10        1  4 20 10        -  - 15  -        1  -  -  -       -  -  -  -        -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -        -  -  -  -        -  -  -  -
Existing Staff----                                                              --  -    -  -  -    -    -  -  -    -    -  -  -    -    -  -  -    -    -  -  -    -    -  -  -    -    -  -  -    -
Trained Staff to be Recruited                                 4  7 20 10        1  4 20 10       -    15  -        I 1           -  -  -     -  -  -  -        -  -  -  -                 -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -
1/ including Development Centre allocation.
SO = Senior officer; 0 - Officer; C = Clerical; L =Labor
February 7, 1974
a,m



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Requirements - Technical Services
---- Year I-----Sear 2------Year 3---                     --Year 4---        --Year 5---       --Year 6---       --Year 7---       --Year 8----  Years 9 - 25
Status         AO  AS  AA  Al  AO  AS  AA  AI  AO  AS  AA  Al  AU  AS  AA  Al  AO  AS  AA  Al  AU  AS  AA  Al  AO  AS  AA  Al  AO  AS  AA  Al  AO  AS  AA  Al
Chief Technical Officer                          Local1- - -                        1- - -             1- - -               - - -             - - -          1- - -            I- - -             1- - -            1- - -
1. Seed Multiplication
Seeds Officer                                 International    I                                                                           -----1-           - -  1------I-------1
Far-m Manager                                 International  1  -   -   -                                                                  -1----   -    1  --  ---- -I--- -----I
Assistant Farm Managers                       Local1 11 1- - I   I  -   -                                                                   I   -   -     I 1  -   -        I 1  -   -    1   1  -   -    I I        1    - -
Seeds Assistants                              Local                               2 -   -   -    2  -   -   -    2  -   -   -    2  -   -   -    2  -   -   -    2  -   -   -    2  -   -   -    2                   2
Outgrowers Assistants                         Local -        -        -       -      --    -   -             4- -2  -          6 -    -   -    6 -    -   -    6 -    -   -    6 -    -   -    6- -  6-
2. Training
Principal - Training Center                   Local-                   - - -    2  -   -   -    2  -   -   -    2-                    -    2  -   -   -    2- -            -    2  -   -   -    2- - -               2  - -
Training Center Assistants                    Local- -    2  -   -   -    4  -   -   -    4  -   -   -    4- - -    4  -   -   -    4-   -   -    4  -   -   -    4- - -    4-
3. Extension
Senior Development Officer                    Local1- - -                        1- - -            1- - -             I- - -            1- - -               - - -          1- - -            1- - -             I- - -
Extension Personnel                           Local-    5  15  60-    5  30 120-    5  50 200-    5  50 200-    5  5U 200-    5  50 200  -    5  50 150                                            5  50 100         5  50  50
4. Livestock
Livestock Personnel                                           -                     -     5 -      I  -    5 -        I.-      5-       1 -      5-       1 -      5-       1-       5-       I1-      5 -       I1-      5 -
5. Farm Machinerv
Fars Mechanisation Personnel                                  I1-    2 -         1  -     5  -    I1-       5 -    1   -    5  -        I1-      5  -     1.-    5 -        I.       5  -      1I-      5  -    I1-       5  -
Total Staff Requirements                                       6   7  19  60   7   8  48 120   7.  8  70 200   7   5  72 200   7   8  72 200   5   8  72 200   5   8  72 150   5   8  72 Ico   5   8  72 So
Incremental Staff Requirements                                 6   7  19  60   1   1  29  60  - -   22  80  -   -    2                 - - - - - - - - -                                 -
Existing   Staff                                              -     2   4   23  -    -    -   -    -   -    -   -    -   -    -   -    -    -   -    -   -    -   -    -   -    -    -   -   -    -    -
Shortfall                                                      6   5 15 37    1   1 2960 -    -   22 80 -    -    2- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Junior Staff From Project Training                            -   -   -   37  -   -   -   60  -   -   -   80  -   -   -    2- - - -                           - - - - - - - - -
Transfer from MANR 1/ or International Recruitment             6   5  15  -    1   1  29  -   -   -   22  -   -   -    2- - - -
1/ Includes ourput of current training program.
During 1973 North East State MANR staff consisted of 22 AO, 71 AS, 200 AA and 370 AI.
AO = Agricultural Officer; AS = Agricultural Superintendent; AA = Agricultural Assistant; Al   Agricultural Instructor.
February 7, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTE-RN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Staff Requirements - Credit Services
---Year I-        -Year 2--         ---Year 3--   ---Year 4--   ---Year 5--   ---Year 6--   ---Year 7--   ---Year 8--   -Years 9-25-
Status             SCO  CO  CA   SCO  CO  CA   SCO  CO  CA   SCO  CO  CA   SCO  CO  CA   SCO  CO  CA   SCO  CO  CA   SCO  CO  CA    SCO  CO  CA
Credit Manager                                   International         I   -   -       I   -   -        I   -                            I 1   -   -  1
Credit Manager                                   Local                                                                      1    -   -         1   -   -        1-   -   -       1   -   - 
Senior Credit Officer                            Local                 1   -   _       1         -      I                1               1                I   -   -        I   -   -        1   -   -       1   -   -
Development Center Credit Supervisors            Local                 -   5   -       -   5   -        -   5   -        -   5   -       -   5   -        -   5   -        -   5   -       -   5   -        -   5   -
Service Center Credit Assistants 1/              Local                 -   -  30       -   -  60        -   - 100        -   - 100       -   - 100        -   - 100        -   - 100        -   - 100       -   - 100
Principal Credit Accountant                      Local                 I   -   -       I -   -          I   -   -        I   -   -       I   -   - _           -   -       I   -   -        I   -   -       1   -   -
Credit Accountants                               Local                 -   2   -            5   -       -   5   -        -   5   -       -   5   -        -   5   -        -   5   -        -        -      -   5   -
Machine Operators                                Local                 -       -        5   -       -    5   -      -    S5              -   -   5        -   -   5        -   -   5        -   -   5        -   -   5
Total Requirement                                                3   7  35        3  10  65       3  10 105        3  10 105       4  10 105        3  10 105        3  10 105        3  10 105        3  10 105
Incremental Requirement                                                3   7  35       -   3  30        -   -  40        -       -    -  I
Existing Staff
Trained Staff to be Recruited                                          3   7   5        -   3   -       -       -    -   -       -    -   I
Staff to be Recruited and Project Trained                              -   -  30       -   -  30        -   -  40
I/ Two CA per service center - the more senior one would act as service center manager.
SCO - Senior Credit Officer grade; CO = Credit Officer grade; CA = Credit Assistant Grade
February 7, 1974
ao'



NIGERIA
NORTH ESTERN~ STATE
GONBE AGRICULTURAL. DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Requirements - Market Services
---Year I--- --Year 2-  --Year 3--- --Year 4--- --Year 5--- --Year 6--- --Year 7--- --Year 8-- -                                           Years 9-25--
Status         SMO MO MA PI   SMO MC) MA PI   SW) MO MA PI   SMO MO MA PI   SMO MO MA PI   SMO MO MA PI   SMO MO MA PI   SMO MO MA PI   SMO MO MA PI
Chief Marketing Officer                         International   1  -  -  -         I  ---           1 -  -  -  I  -    I                            -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -
Divisional Marketing Officer                   Local              -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -       1 -  --          I---I1-                    --      I1--1                  ---                 -
Development Center Marketing Supervisor   Local                  -  5  -  -        -5  -  -         -  5  -  -       -  5  -  -       -  5                 5   -  -     -                    5    -                 
Market Assistants                               Local             -  -  5             - 10  -       -  - To  -       -  -l10  -       -  - lo-             - 10  --         - lo  -       -  - 10  -       -  -if0  -
Produce Inspector                              Local              --       -15     -  --  30        - --50           -  -     -50     - --50           -  -     -50       ---50           -  -     -50     - 5--0
Total Requirement                                           1  5  5 15       1  5 10 30       1  5 10 50       2  5 10 50        1  5 10 50       1  5 10 50       1  5 10 50       1  5 10 50        1  5 10 50
Incremental Requirement                                           1 5 515          - -515           -  -     -20     1 -  --          -  -   -  -      -  -  -  -        -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -
Existing Staff                                                    -  -  - 12       ----             ---- -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -        -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -
Trained Staff lo be Recruited                                        5  -   3      -   -     --     -                -   -     -   -  -   ---           ----             ---   -    -  --  -               -  -   -  -
Staff to be Recruited and Project Trained                         -  -  5  -       -  -  5 15       -  -  - 20       -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -        -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -       -  -  -  -
SMO = Senior Marketing Officer grade; MO = Marketing Officer; MA = Marketing Assistant; PI = Produce Inspector.
February 7, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERNl STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Requirements - Engineering
--Dar 1---   --Year 2---   --Year 3---   --Year 4---    --Year 5---   --Year 6---   -Years 7-25-
Status          P_- STA  TA   PO  STA  TA   PO  STA  TA   PO  STA  TA   PO  STA  TA   PO  STA  TA   PO  STA  TA
Engineering Services
Chief Engineer                           International   I    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Planning Section
Land Use Planning Officer                International   1    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   _
Rural Engineer                           Local            1    -   -    I    -   -    I    -   -    1    -   -    1    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Tracer/Draughtsmen                       Local            -    1   5    -    1   5    -    1   5    -    1   3    -    1   3    -    I   1    -    -   -
Building Section
Superintendent of Works                  Local            1    -   -    1    -   - I         -   -    1    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Tracer/Draughtsmen                       Local            -    1   1    -    1   1    -    1   1    -    1   1    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Road Section 2/
Road Engineer                            International   1    -   -    1    -   - I          -   -    1    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Rural Engineer                           Local            3    -   -    5    -   -    5    -   -    5    -   -    3    -   -    2    -   -    -    -   -
Inspector of Works                       Local            1    -   -    1    -   -    I    -   -    1    -   -    I    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Soil and Water Conservation Section 2/
Conservation Engineer                    International   1    -   -    1    -   -    I    -   -    1    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Dam Survey                               Local            1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Soil Conservation Survey                 Local            1    3   -    1    3   -    1    3   -    1    3   -    1    3   -    1    3   -    1    3   -
Dam Construction Unit                    Local            1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Mobile Workshop                          Local            1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Soil Conservation                        Local            1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -    1    2   -
Workshop Services 3/
Mechanical Engineer                      International   1    -   _    1    -   -    1    -   -    I    -   -    -    -   _          -   -    -        -   -
Assistant Mechanical Engineer            Local            2    -   _    2    -   -    2    -   -    2    -   -    2    -   -    2    -   -    -    -   _
Total Engineering Requirements                      18   13   6   20   13   6   20   13   6   19   13   4   13   12   3    6    6   1    2    5   -
Incremental Requirements                            18   13   6    2    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Existing Staff                                       -    -   -    -
Trained Staff to be employed                         8    -   6    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
Staff to be employed and trained                    lo0-/ 13   -    2    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -   -
1/ To be called Rural Engineer - most will be pupil engineers initially - if professional officers not available Technical Officers will be substituted.
2/ Non-technical staff included under labor in operating costs. Drivers and machine operators also included under hourly operating charges.
3/ Mechanics etc. included under machine operating costs.
4/ Local qualified engineers, but without practical experience require in-service training.
March 1, 1974                                                                                                                                                     u a






ANNEX 7
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Inputs
1.        The traditional agriculture of the Gombe area uses almost no modern
agricultural inputs. Currently there is very little demand for, and very
little supply of, such inputs as fertilizers, insecticides, sprayers and other
farm machinery. Yet, if the project is to achieve its goals, the project must
make available a supply of these inputs, create a demand for them, develop
the means for farmers to acquire them, and educate farmers in their use -
even supervise their use where necessary to assure results.
2.        At present suppliers of farm inputs in the project area are either
absent or inadequate. Therefore, the project would be an importer and re-
tailer of critical farm supplies and equipment. These supplies include 320
m tons fertilizer in year one, increasing to 16,000 m tons in year five;
1,600 sprayer kits in year one increasing to 15,000 in year five; as well as
ox drawn equipment, seeds, and insecticides. The logistics of acquiring,
moving and distributing these quantities would be substantial and would be
the responsibility of the Chief Marketing Officer of GOPMU. The selling price
of inputs would be based on an ex-village store cost.
3.        Inputs would be transported to the project center at Gombe where
a 4,000-ton storage facility would be constructed at Gombe railway yard and
to 50 farm service center stores each with a 500-ton storage capacity.
Rail to village store transportation would be arranged with private truckers,
many of whom would be LBA transport contractors who would welcome back haul
loads while moving produce from village to market.
4.        Seasonal inputs include fertilizers, insecticides, seeds and bat-
tery sets for ULV sprayers. Fertilizers would be purchased in 50 kg bags
clearly marked to distinguish kind. The landed price per m ton in the village
store (including a 10% handling charge) is estimated at N 196.9 for calcium
ammonium nitrate, N 183.7 for single super phosphate, and N  114.4 for muriate
of potash. insecticides for cotton and cowpeas would cost farmers an esti-
mated N 1.65 per kilogram and for maize about N 0.33 per kilogram. Battery
sets for sprayers would cost about N 2.64 per set. Improved seeds would be
made available at varying costs.
5.        Subsidies.  NES would continue to subsidize nitrogenous and phos-
phatic fertilizers to an amount of 50% of cif farm store cost. At present
farmers pay N 40 per m ton for ammonium sulphate and N 32 per m ton for sin-
gle superphosphate (less than projected cif Nigerian ports price). It has
been Government policy to subsidize cotton insecticides. In the expectations



ANNEX 7
Page 2
of increasing yields by as much as 400% under the project through spraying,
and associated practices, and because a large number of farmers would be in-
volved, compared to the negligible number at present, it is considered desir-
able that cotton insecticides would not be subsidized. The subsidy element
for fertilizers is shown in Table 1.
6.        Sales of Seasonal Inputs.  It is expected that 25% of seasonal in-
puts would be sold for cash at farm service centers. Payments would be
made at the service center, recorded by cash register, and simultaneously
entered in the stores register. The remaining 75% of seasonal inputs would
be sold on credit. The credit system is described in more detail in Annex 8.
Sales on credit would be in kind and would be similar to the system for a
cash sale except that they would be registered on the farmer's credit card.
Tables 2, 3, and 4 show the amounts involved.
7.        Medium Term Inputs and Farm Equipment include ULV sprayers, ox
drawn equipment kits and tractor kits. These would be procured by the pro-
ject for sale to farmers. ULV sprayers together with protective gloves and
face masks would be sold for N 15.7. An estimated 33,000 sprayer kits would
be made available to farmers over the 5 year development period (Table 5).
Ox drawn kit at N 165 each would include an ox cart, plow and ridger. An
estimated 5,000 ox drawn kits are expected to be taken up over 5 years in
the project area (Table 5); mair.ly to larger farmers owning at least 6-10 ha
of land under cultivation. The project would not supply oxen. Farmers in-
terested in obtaining ox equipment would be expected to acquire oxen with their
own resources. Extreme difficulties are involved in supplying oxen on credit,
given their relatively high value and the opportunity of realizing this through
sale for meat.
8.        Tractor and Equipment.  At present the Government supports a limited
but totally uneconomic tractor hire service within the project area. This
service would be phased out during the project period and would be replaced
by contract tractor operations provided by private entrepreneurs receiving
credit under the project. About 50 such loans would be made initially, and
would be made primarily to existing transport contractors, small businessmen
or larger farmers. The project would provide such contractors with maintenance
services, through its mechanical workshop and field servicing units, short
training courses for tractor drivers, and would direct operators to selected
areas. The tractor kit would include a 65 hp tractor, trailer, chisel plow,
disc harrow and a ridger. The project management would select a standard make
and specifications for the kit, taking into account prices obtained through
domestic competitive bidding, which would require a minimum level of local
maintenance service to be provided by the tractor suppliers. Project manage-
ment would help to establish realistic and fair hire rates for contractors.
By the fifth year of the project, tractor cultivations could be extended some
3,000 to 4,000 ha annually and if successful could be further expanded.



NIGERlA
NORTH EASTERtI STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVEWPNENT PROJECT
Basic Cost Assumptions on Farm Inputs
N
---------------- Fertiliaer Metric Tons --------------------
Calcium                                     Muriate       Single       Insecticide    Insecticide
Ammonium        Ammonium                      Of          Super-       for Cotton      for Maize/      Battery    Spraying       Ox Drawn      Tractor and
Nitrate         Sulnhate       Urea         Potash      Phosphate       per Liter        Kg 9/         Sets        EauiPmentJ' Equipment        Equipment
cif Lagos US$                            218              178          348           105         200               -              -              -            20.0          -
cif Lagos N                              144              117          230            69         132               -                                          13.2          -              -
Port Handling Charges                      2.5              2.5          2.5           2.5          2.5            -              _              -            eA 
Port Hascourt - Gombe 7/                  32.5             32.5         32.5          32.5        32.5             -              -              -             1.0          -              -
Cost f.o.r. project store                179.0            152.0        265.0         104.0        167,0            1.50           0.3            2.40         14.3         150.0  3t       5,750
Project handling charges 107    8/        17.9             15.2         26.5          10.4         16.7            0.15           0.03           0.24          1.4         15.0  4/          250
Cost farm service center                 196.9            167.2        291.5         114.4        183.7            1.65           0.33           2.64         15.7        165.0 -          -
Less 50% Government subsidy               98.5             83.6        145.8          -           91.9             -              -              -            -             -              -
Farmer price - cash                       98.4             83.6        145.7         114.4         91.8            1.65           0.33           2.64         15.7        165.0            6,000
Farmer price - Credit                    108.4             92.0        160.3         125.8        101.0            1.80           0.36           2.90         18.1  2/       -5/             6/
Per kg value of nutrient                   0.76             0.80         0.63        N/A            1.15           N/A            N/A            N/A          N/A           N/A            N/A
1/  Includes sprayer $14, gloves $2, 5 gallon plastic can and funnel $2 = total $20 - based on purchase of 7,000 units at a time.
2/  Interest at 107. over 2 years.
3/  Includes ox cart and plow/ridger - locally made at Zaria or Kano.
4/ Service charge 5%.
5/ Farms required to make a 20% down payment and receives credit for balance at 10% over 3 years.
6/  Farmer or contractor cost inclusive of service charge up to N 6,000.  Farmer place 307 down payment - repayment at 10% over 4 years.
71  N 0.05 per ton mile, 650 miles is N 32.5.
i,/ Covers internal project transport, loading, unloading, storage clerks etc.
9/  5% DDT granules - applied at 6 kg/ha.
August 23, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH EaSTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seasonal Fertilizer Requirements - Amount and Cost
Foreign Exchange        Local
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5          Total                    Cost        Cost
Nitrogenous Fertilizer j  (m tons)
Cotton                                            140               275             600            1,200            2,200
Sorghum     .-                                                      450            1,050           1,800            2,400
Maize                                              -                135              600            1,575           2,685
Total m tons                           140               860            2,250            4,575            7,285
SupehrDhosoate i/ (m tons)
Cotton                                            140               275             600            1,200            2,200
Sorghum                                            -                450            1,050            i,800           2,400
Maize                                              -                150              775            1,860           3,105
Groundnut                                          30               110              225              450             675
Cowpeas                                            10                25               50              75              100
Total m tons                           180             1,010            2,700            5,385            8,480
Muriate of Potash (m tons)
Maize                                                                10               25              100             185
Cost
Nitrogenous fertilizer #/ @ g 196.9/m ton          27.6             169.3            443.0            900.8         1,434.4          2,975.1    73        2,171.8        803.3
Superphosphate :/          @ h 183.7/m ton         33.1             185.5            496,0            989.2         1,557.8          3,261.6    72        2,348.4        913.2
Muriate of potash 2/       @ N 114.4/m ton         -                  1.1              2.9             11.4             21.2            36.6    61            22.3         14.3
Total                                    60.7            355.9            941.9          1,901.4          3,013.4          6,273.3    72        4,542.5      1,730.8
Fertilizer subsidy i/                              30.4             177.4            465.5            945.0          1,496.1         3,114.4    72         2,242.4       872.o
Balance Z/                                         30.3             178.5            476,4            956.4          1,517.3         3,158.9    72         2,274.4       884.5
Incremental balance:                               30.3             148,2            297,9            480.0            560.9         1,517.3    72         1,092.5       424.8
Incremental cash sales 7/                         7.6              37.1             74.5            120.0            140.2           379.4    72           273.2       106.2
Incremental credit sales 2/                      22.7             111.1            223.4            360.0           420.7          1,137.9    72          819.3        318.6
Annual credit requirement i/                       22.7             133.8            357.2            717.2          1,137.9             -       -            -            _
I/ Estimated on the basis of using calcium anhlonium nitrate.
/ Based on using single superphosphate.
3/ Boronated.
At village service center - estimated on calcium ammonium nitrate.                                                                                                           g 3
5/ At village service center.
/ 50o% on N and P205.
7/ 50% on N and P205 + 100% muriate of potash.
J 25% of total incremental balance.
2/ 75% of total incremental balance.
/  Lent to farmers on a seasonal basis at a flat rate of 10%.
August 23, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTffH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICUL'IIJRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seasonal Requirements for Seeds. Insecticides, and Battery Sets
Foreign  Exchan        Local
Year 1           Year 2           Year 3          Year 4           Year 5           Total                     Cost      Cost
A. QlANTITIES
Seeds (in tons)
Sorghum                                          -                 54              126             216              288           684
Maize                                            -                 24              125             294              486           929
Groundnuts                                       15                60             120              240              360           795
Total                                     15              138              371             750            1,134          2,408
Insecticides for:
Cotton lt g                                  25,200            49,500         108,000          216,000         396,000        704,700
Cowpeas It                                    3,000             6,oo0          12,000           18,000          24,000         63,000
Total                                 28,200           55,500          120,000          234,000         420,000        857,700
Maize (ton) /                                    -                  1.2              3              12               22.2           38.4
Battery Sets
Cotton                                        2,000             4,250            9,000          18,000           32,000        65,250
Cowpeas                                         250               500           1,000            1,500            2,000         5,250
Total                                  2,250             4,750          10,000           19,500          34,000         70,500
B. COSTS  (N'0O0)
Seeds 2/                                          2.3              20.7             55.7           112.5            170.1          361.3        -            _         361.3
Insecticides:
for cotton and groundnuts §/                   46.5              91.6            198.0           386.1            693.o       1,1415.2        70          990.6      424.6
maize 7/                                   -                  0.4              1.0             4.0              7.3           12.7        70            8.9        3.8
Battery sets §/                                    5.9             12.5             26.4             51.5            89.8          186.1        70          130.3        55.8
Total Cost                                54.7             125.2           281.1            554.1            960.2       1,975.3         57       1,129.8       845.5
Total Cash Sale 2/                        13.7              31.3            70.3            138.5            240.0          493.8
Total Credit Sale 0/                      41.0              93.9            210.8           415.6            720.2        1,481.5
Incremental Credit Requirement            41.0              52.9           116.9            204.8            304.6          720.2        57          410.5      309.7
/ Cat. II farmer 9 liters per ha, Cat. III 18 litNrs per ha (endosulphan).
2/ 12 liters per ha (probably endosulphan).
3| 6 kg/ha DDT granules for Cat. III farmers.
2/ 1 set per ha sprayed.
5 Average cost of N 150/ton inclusive service charge.
~/ @ N 1,650 per m ton.
7j  @ N 330 per m ton.
/ @ N 2.64 per set.
9/ @ 25% of total cost.
1/ @ 75% of total cost.
March 7, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTI ASTEN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Fertilizer Subsidies, Seasonal Cash Sales and Credit Recquirements
N' 000
Forein Excange   Local
Year 1           Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5         Total        Fe          cost        Cost
Fertilizer subsidy                                    30.4             177.4            465.5            945.0          1,496.1      3,114.4         72        2,242.4      872.0
Incremental Cash Sales
Fertilizer                                             7.6              37.1             74.5            120.0            140.2         379.4        72          273.2       106.2
Seeds, insecticides and batteries                     13.7              17.6             39.0             68.2            101.5        240.0         57          136.8       103.2
Subtotal                                   21.3               54.7            113.5            188.2           241.7         619.4         66         410.0       209.4
Incremental Credit Sales
Fertilizer                                            22.7             111.1            223.4            360.0            420.7       1,137.9        72          819.3       318.6
Seeds, insecticides, and batteries                   41.0               52.9            116.9            204.8            304.6        720.2         57          410.5       309.7
Subtotal                                   63.7              164.0            340.3            564.8           725.3       1,858.1         66        1,229.8      628.3
Total Incremental Inputs                   85.0              218.7            453.8            753.0           967.0       2,477.5         66        1,639.8      837.7
s  2s
August 23, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Equipment Requirements
N'O00
Foreign Exchange
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Total        iCost                  Local Cost
A. QUANTITIES
Sprayer kit I                           1,600       1,900        5,100       8,900      15,100     32,600
Oxd;rawn equipment kit 4                  100         400        1,000       1,500       2,000      5,000
Tractor kit 3                              -            5           10          15          20         50
B. COSTS
Sprayer kit                                25.1         29.8        80.1       139.7       237.1      511.8       90         46o.6           51.2
Oxdrawn equipment kit                      16.5         66.o       165.0       247.5       330.0      825.0      75          618.7          206.3
Tractor kit                                -           30.0         6o.o        90.0       120.0      300.0      75          225.0          75.0
Total                               41.6       125.8       305.1        477.2       687.1   1,636.8       80        1,304.3         332.5
C. FARMER DOWN PAYMENT
Oxdrawn equipment .                         3.3         13.2        33.0        49.5        66.o      165.0
Tractor kit 5/                             -            9.0         18.0        27.0        36.o       90.0
Total                                3.3        22.2         51.0        76.5       102.0      255.0
D. CREDIT REQUIREMENT
Sprayer kit S/                             25.1         29.8        80.1       139.7       237.1       511.8
Oxdrawn equipment kit                      13.2         52.8       132.0       198.0       264.o       660.o
Tractor kit                                _            21.0        42.0        63.0        84.o      210.0
Total                               38.3       103.6        254.1       400.7       585.1    1,381.8
Principal Repayment to Credit Fund          -           -           25.9        89.4       189.6       304.9
Net Credit Requirement                     38.3        103.6       228.2       311.3        395.5    1,076.9
Net Credit Requirement and Farmer
Downpayment                              41.6        125.8       279.2       387.8       497.5    1,331.9       80       1,065.5          266.4
1/ Includes ULV  sprayer, set of gloves, 1 pair of goggles - N 15.7 inclusive of service charge - year 6 onwards, 12,000 sprayers replaced each year.
L Plow/ridger, ox cart, N 165 inclusive of service charge.                                                                                                 (D
3/ Includes 65 hp tractor trailer, ridger, chisel plow - N 6,000 inclusive of service charge.
1720% downpayment (balance 3 year loan @ 10% i.e. loan N 132 - repayment N 53 per annum for 3 years).
/ 30%o downpayment (balance 4 year loan @ 10% i.e. loan N 4,200 - repayment N 1,323 per annum for 4 years).
100% credit @ 10% over 2 years at N 9.05 per year.
Aucust 23. 1974






ANNEX 8
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Credit
1.        Provision of inputs, and of technical services, is of little avail
unless farmers have the means for acquiring inputs. Thus farm credit plays
a critical role in the package of goods and services needed to make the agri-
culture of a region more productive.
2.        Almost no commercial credit is available at present to farmers in
the project area, especially to the large majority who are small farmers.
Although small farmers apparently get some credit from local traders and
other private persons, it is unreliable, costly, and totally inadequate for
generating a more productive agriculture. Conmmercial banks in the area are
not equipped to extend large numbers of small loans to farmers. The costs
of doing such business are prohibitative. Cooperative societies that have
extended credit to farmer members have failed more often than they have suc-
ceeded, partly because the inputs necessary to make enterprises productive
were not available, partly because no technical service or supervision ac-
companied the loan, and partly because of inadequate management of the co-
operatives themselves. In any case, sources of credit currently are total-
ly inadequate to serve the needs for an increasingly productive agricultural
economy.
Amounts of Credit Needed
3.        The credit system visualized for the project area would be limited
to providing farmers with specific inputs, namely fertilizers, insecticides,
seeds, sprayers, ox drawn equipment and a small amount of tractor equipment.
The estimated amounts of credit sales for each year of the 5-year project
period are:
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5
---------------------   N    000
Fertilizers                    22.7       133.8       357.2        717.2       1137.9
Insecticides, seeds, and
battery sets                41.0        93.9       210.8       415.6        720.2
Sprayers, oxdrawn equipment
and tractor equipment       38.8       103.6       228.2       311.3        395.5
Total                    102.5       331.3       796.2      1135.9       2253.6



ANNEX 8
Page 2
4.        fTo lend and collect these sums effectively and efficiently it would
be necessary and preferable to establish an organization that would be a
self-perpetuating institution capable of serving the credit needs of farmers
in the area for an indefinite period of time.
5.        Operating Procedures for GOPIfD Revolving Credit Fund.  Several
operating procedures lend themselves to adoption by GOPMU in so far as they
would assure good service to customers at reasonable cost. The following
procedures would be those which GOPMU would employ initially and modify as
required in the course of the project's life. At first, lending would be
limited to input items carried by project farm service center stores; such
lending would be in amounts specified on a simple farm management plan approved
by project's Development Service AA. A simple form of loan application would
be employed which would serve as a farm management plan and promisory note at
the same time.
6.        The Credit Assistant would calculate the farmers credit requirements
and after clearance on the borrowers credit worthiness from the village head the
borrower would be authorized to present his application to the village service
center. The items specified would be provided to the farmer and the sale re-
corded by a bookkeeping machine. At market time, the Farm service center store-
keeper would make it as convenient as possible for the borrower to repay his loan.
7.        Each borrower would have a laminated identity card containing his
picture, serial number (which would identify his village and hamlet) and sig-
nature or mark for convenient identification and record keeping.
8.        Seasonal loans and two-year sprayer loans involving a total out-
standing credit of less than N 100 to borrowers in goodstanding would be
approved by Credit Assistants at the village level; attention being paid to
ensure that the time between loan application and the borrower actually ob-
taining his input items would be minimal. Larger loans and loans for oxdrawn
equipment would need to be approved by the relevant Credit Officer. Loans of
over N 500 and all tractor loans would require the Credit Manager's specific
approval.
9.        GOPMU would lend up to a maximum of N 5,000 to any one borrower.
Larger borrowers would be directed to NAB or commercial banks.
10.       Group Obligation.  The procedures would provide that each borrower's
loan application be approved by the hamlet or village head, or a farmers'
association approved by the village authorities. Such approval would certify
to the applicants credit worthiness. Once each year, COPMU would summarize
all accounts of the hamlet or village. If defaults were found, the headman
would be-asked to assist in collections. GOPMU and the CA would be empowered
to withhold lending to anyone in that village or hamlet until defaults are
removed unless due cause for default is presented and accepted by GOPMU. The
group obligation would be a powerful influence to avoid default under social
structure pertaining to northern Nigeria.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
11.       Provision would be made to extend credit to groups, or to village
farmers associations, if farmers wished to pool their needs for inputs and
to assume joint liability for the credit extended.
Terms of Lending
12.       Lending terms to farmers would be established each year prior to
the upcoming season. Preferably these terms should be established well in
advance, and certainly no later than the preceeding November. The lending
terms would be determined by GOPMU management for approval by GOPEC after
consultation with relevant Federal Authorities and the World Bank. Interest
rates would vary between 5-9-1/2% depending on the viabilitv of the input
package provided to the borrowers. Most appropriately it should be applied
as follows:
-    seasonal loans for farm inputs - repayable within 12 months
at a flat service charge rate of 10%. No down pavments required;
-    sprayer loans repayable within two years in annual equal
installments at a flat service charge rate of 10% per annum.
No down payment required;
-    oxdrawn equipment loans within three years in three annual
equal installments at a flat service charge rate of 10%
per annum. A 20% down payment required;
-    tractors and tractor drawn equipment within four years in
four annual equal installments at a flat service charge
rate of 10% per annum. A 30% down payment required.
13.       The above terms may differ at the time of implementation depending
on the economic situation prevailing at the time. However, on present fore-
casts and estimates, see farm budgets at Annex 1, the proposed crop improve-
ments and input packages could easily carry the terms proposed in para 12.
It is strongly recommended, for ease of administration and appreciation by
the borrowers, that a flat service rate made up of interest and services is
applied to all loans.
14.       During the implementation of the project, management and PMEU would
make a thorough study of various lending systems, such as cooperatives etc.,
that exist in the project area, with a view to making firm recommendations
for the conversion, in the fourth or fifth year of the project, of the revolv-
ing credit fund into a form that can continue lending to the farmers after the
project development period is completed. It is therefore of great importance
that from the start of the project the revolving credit fund is operated on a
practical and commercial basis, and for this reason an illustrative cash flow
for the fund is shown at Table 1 of this Annex.






NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AgRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Illustrative Cash Flow for Subloans
N'000
Year 1        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         Year 5         Year 6         Year 7         Year 8         Year 9          Year 10
Disbursements to Farmers
Seasonal loans                                       64            228            568         1,133          1,858          1,858          1,858          1,858          1,858             1,858
Oxdrawn equipment loans                              13             53            132            198           264             -              -              -               -                -
Tractor and equipment loans                          -              21             42             63             84             -             -               -              -                -
Sprayer loans                                        25             30             80            140           237            188            188            188            188               188
Total Disbursements                      102            332            822          1,534          2,443          2,046          2,046          2,046          2,046            2,046
Receipts
Funds from NES
(a) For seasonal loans                               64            164            340            565            725            -              -               -              -
(b) For medium term loans                            38            104           228             311           396             -              -              -
Sub total                                102            268            568            876          1,121             -              -              -              -
Repayments by Farmers
(a) Seasonal loans:
- repayment by due date 1/                     -             58            205            511          1,o20          1,672          1,672          1,672          1,672             1,672
- collection on defaults 2/                    -              -               3             12            29             57             93             93              93               93
- collection on bad debts 3/                   -              -              -               2             6              14             29            46              46               46
- service charge 4/                            -               6             21             53            106            174            179            181            181              181
(b) Medium Term Loans 5t
- oxdrawn equipment 6/                         -               5            25             76            148            230            182             105              3               -
- tractor equipment 6/                         -              -               6             19             38             64             58             46             26               -
- sprayer kits 6/                              _              14             31             61            122           210            238             212            212              212
Sub total                                 -              83            291            734          1,469          2,421          2,451          2,355           2,233            2,204
Total Receipts                           102            351             859         1,610          2,590          2,421          2,451           2,355          2,233            2,204
Balance                                    -              19             37             76            147            375            405            309            187              158
1/ Assumes 90% repayment within 12 months of loan date.                                                                                                                                            ^ 
2/ Assumes that half of defaults would be collected within 12 months after due date.
3/ Assumes that half of bad debts are collected in first year of bad debt account.  The remainder written off,
4/ Assumes a flat service charge of 10%.                                                                                                                                                             m
5/ Interest and principal on annuity basis (Annex 7, Table 5 for suggested rate).
6/ 95% on due date, 24% collected in following year; remaining 24% written off.
August 26, 1974






ANNEX 9
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Evaluation
1.        Rural development projects of the size and scope of the Gombe
project can have far reaching effects on the people in the project area and
on the economy of the State and the nation. The effects cannot be foreseen
with precision. Thus, an ongoing and thorough evaluation must be initiated
and pursued throughout the life of the project:
(a) to guide project management;
(b) to help establishment of project goals and scheduling of
project activities;
(c) to measure effectiveness and efficiency of project activities;
(d) to inform State and national governments and others of changes
stemming from project activities;
(e) to enhance knowledge of the rural development process for
future development planning; and
(f) to permit the continuous reappraisal of project goals and
assumptions underlying project design, particularly those
aspects affecting credit and input supplies and to allow
for progressive modification of project objectives and
structures.
2.        Evaluation must include such standard economic criteria as changes
in gross and net incomes of participants, changes in volume and value of
production, and measures of efficiency in use of project resources. It must
include also such direct and indirect benefits as changes in efficiency and
effectiveness of the marketing system, changes in employment, changes in the
volume and type of business in the region, changes in tax revenues and ex-
penditures, and changes in other economic and social indicators that would
show direct and indirect results of project activities. Equally important
may be changes in patterns of consumption, in participation in education, in
health, and in other measures of well being of people in the project area.
3.        Precise types of measures to be made and specific methods of data
collection and analyses must be developed by the evaluation staff on site.
Some of the data needed would be generated by project records. Other data
must be collected by surveys and from secondary sources outside the project
area. The proposed investment of substantial expertise and manpower in



ANNEX 9
Page 2
developing and conducting surveys and analyses designed to measure meaning-
fully the parameters of rural development, as partially indicated in para-
graph 2, should generate considerable benefits, both for future planning in
Nigeria and for the general knowledge of the rural development process.
4.        If the broader impact of the project is to be assessed, there is
no alternative to undertaking baseline surveys before the effect of the
project begin to manifest themselves, and to continue the assessment of
changes brough about by project actions during and after the implementation
period. No organization or project can properly evaluate itself; and there-
fore evaluation staff must be independent of project management in technical
direction and analysis methods; although of course they should work closely
with project staff for administrative purposes.
5.        In order to accomplish a meaningful evaluation, the Federal Minis-
try of Agriculture and Natural Resources (FMANR) would establish a Project
Mionitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) at Kaduna. PMEU would have a dual
function: (a) using existing Federal staff, suitably strengthened, it would
undertake a continuing technical and financial review of project actions so
as to satisfy FMANR that the project accomplishes its general objectives;
(b) by establishing a special evaluation section and employing specialist
consultants, it would undertake an economic and social evaluation as out-
lined in paras 1-3.
6.        The evaluation section of PMEU would be set up under the World Bank
loan for the Funtua Agricultural Development Project and would be directed
by a "Head" who would be responsible for technical and budget control of the
unit. Certain key staff would be employed by the unit to be responsible for
developing an evaluation program and for the analysis of the results from
Gombe project and from other projects established in northern Nigeria. Each
project evaluated would have its own field enumeration teams that would re-
main administratively responsible to the respective projects.
7.        The Monitoring section would be funded from ongoing FMANR budget-
ary allocations and initially would be hardly more than a one-man unit. The
evaluation section would be funded by FMG from its own resources and a loan 1/
from the World Bank. A special bank account would be maintained for the
evaluation section. The field enumeration units would be funded by the
State Government from its own resources and from a Bank loan.
8.        The Federal Government has indicated that it would contract the
staffing of the evaluation section of PMEU to consultants. The consult-
ants would probably be a Nigerian university, in all likelihood the favor-
ably placed Ahmadu Bello University at Zaria. The consultants would be free
to draw upon the services of experienced individuals or possibly an outside
university to fill the posts provided for.
1/   This loan would be made under the Loan for the Funtua Agricultural
Development Project.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
9.        Initially, the evaluation section of PMEU would monitor and eval-
uate the Funtua, Gusau and Gombe Agricultural Development Projects, but as
time progresses, the evaluation section would be expanded to take in other
projects that might be developed, particularly as the State Governments would
in every case be responsible for administering the respective field enumera-
tion units.
10.       The Gombe field evaluation unit would be made up of two enumera-
tion units each consisting of 1 economist, 4 supervisors and 20 enumerators
(both men and women). Each unit would be responsible for approximately 600
samples, the actual number of samples depending upon the degree of intensity
of sampling laid down by PMEU. One senior evaluation officer based at proj-
ect headquarters would be responsible for the project evaluation unit which
would comprise himself, his support staff and the 2 field enumerator units
(see table for costs).
11.       The evaluation section of PMEU would prepare a summary analysis
report at least once each year for each project, and such other special
reports as needed and when available information may suggest. The summary
report would be reviewed with the Project Manager and subsequently made
available to the Federal Coordinating Committee. A final summary appraisal
would be prepared for each project at the end of its first five years of
operation.
12.       The project evaluation activities described in this annex would be
in addition to that which would be undertaken by each Project Manager as a
matter of routine to provide himself with performance and cost effectiveness
information necessary for good management and the achievement of project
goals.






NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Evaluation Unit-/ Costs (W'OOO)
Unit   No. of                                                                                                 Foreign Exchange   Local
Unit             Cost   Units          Year 1           Year 2          Year 3           Year 4           Year 5       Total   %             Cost   Cost           Year 6
Field Evaluation Unit
Capital Costs
Senior staff hour                    Number            23.0       1       ( 1)   23.0             -                                                 -         23.0   30             6.9    16.1
Intermediate staff houses            Number            18.0       2       ( 2)   36.o             -                -               -                -         36.0   30            10.8    25.2
Office space                                                                       6.5            -                -               -                -          6.5   30             2.0      4.5
Office furniture and equipment                                                     2.0            -                -                -               -          2.0   60              1.2      0.8
Pickup vehicle                       Number             3.0       6       ( 3)    9.0             -                -        ( 3)    9.0             -         18.0   60            10.8      7.2
Motorcycles                          Number             o.4      24       ( 8)    3.2             -        ( 6)    3.2              -        (8)    3.2        9.6   70             6.7       2.9
Sub total                                                              79.7            -                 3.2              9.0             3.2      95.1   40             38.4    56.7
Operating Costs
Senior Evaluation Officer            Manyears          23.0       5       ( 1)   23.o    ( 1)   23.0    ( 1)   23.o    ( 1)   23.o    ( 1)   23.0    115.0  100                    115.0      -        1)    23.o
Professionals                        Manyears           5.0      10       ( 2)   10.0    ( 2)   10.0    ( 2)   10.0    ( 2)   10.0    ( 2)   10.o             50.0   -               -      50.0   ( 2)    10.0
Research Assistants                  Manyears           1.3      40       ( 8)   10.4      ( 8)   10.4    ( 8)   10.4       ( 8)   10.4      ( 8)   10.4      52.0   -               -       52.0   (8)    10.4
Enumerators                          Manyears           0.6    200        (40)   24.0    (40)   24,0    (40)   24.o    (40)   24.0    (40)   24.o    120.0   -                       -      120.0   (40)    24.o
Clerks                               Manyears           1.0      15       (3)    3.o    ( 3)    3.0    (3)    3.e           ( 3)    3.o      (3)    3.o       15.0   -               -       15.0   (3)        3.0
Vehicle operating                    Vehicle years    1.8        15       ( 3)    5.4      ( 3)    5.4    ( 3)    5.4       ( 3)    5.4      ( 3)    5.4       27.0   44            11.9     15.1   ( 3)       5.4
Motorcycle operating                 m/c years          0.2      40       ( 8)    1.6      ( 8)    1.6    ( 8)    1.6       ( 8)    1.6      ( 8)    1.6        8.0   44             3.5      4.5    ( 8)      1.6
Rent allowance                                                                     2.4             2.4              2.4              2.4              2,4      12.0   -              -       12.0              2.4
Sub total                                                              79.8            79.8             79.8             79.8             79.8    399.0   33            130.4   268.6              79.8
Total                                                                 159.5             79.8            83.o             88.8             83.0    494.1   34            168.8   325.3              79.8
1/ Costs of PMEU evaluation section included in Funtua Agricultural Development Project.
Me-ch 2, 1974






NIGERIA                                                                      AEX 1
Table 1
NORT0 EASTERN STATE
Go0BE AGRICULTURkL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sumoary oi Project Costs
8'000
Forig  Ecb998e       Local  1
Year 1      Yer 2        Year 3      Year 4       Year 5      Tota.          i          Cot       Cost         Distribution
Project Aidminlstrgtson
Vehicles end equIpment                                 43.1         33.5         1.6        14.0          1.6         93.8    60            56.8         37.0
Houses, buildings and furnishings                     326.o       179.0         -            -           _           505.0    30           153.5        351.5
Salaries  nd alloe-s                                  118.9       166.4        176.9        176.9       161.9        801.0     28          223.0         578.0
Vehicle operating                                       4.5          6.3         6.3          6.3         6.3         29.7     44           13.0          16.7
Head office expenses (GS)                              6o.5        99.7        125.3       137.6        137.6        560.7     21          114.9        445.8
Sub total                                  553.0        484.9        310.1       334.8        307.4     1,990.2      26         561.2       1,429.0          8
Technical Services
Vehicles end equipnent                                184.6        72.3         38.2        63.1         30.9        389.1     70          271.9        117.2
Houses, buildings and furnishings 2                   651.0       476.0        372.0         -           -         1,499.0     28          417.3      1,081.7
Salaries and allowances                               148.1       230.8        310,0        310.0       310.0     1,308.9      13          170.0      1,138.9
Vehbcle operating                                      26.3         39.4        42.2         38.0        38.0        183.9     44           80.9         103.0
Tractor hire service (GS)                              13.5        13.5         13.5         8.1          4.1         52.7     44           23.2         29.5
Fam training centers operating (GS)                     8.0        16.0         16.0        16.0         16.0         72.0     -            -            72.0
Seed multiplication farms (GS)                         27.3        48.1         62.4        62.4         62.4        262.6     50          131.3        131.3
Sub total                                1,058.8        896.1       854.3        497.6        461.4     3,768.2      29       1,094.6       2,673.6        14
Farm Credit Services
Vehicles and equIpment                                117.5        76,0         94.0         46.5        38.0        372.0    63           233.4        138.4
Houses sod furnishings                                300.0       144.0        120.0         -           -           564.o     22          12.0        442.0
sslaries and allowances                               123.0       178.5        230.5        230.5       241.3     1,003.8      12          115.0        838.8
Vehicle operatiog                                      15.3        18.3         22.3         22.3        22,3        100.5     44           44.2          56.3
Credot operation.  (GS"                                 0.5         2.0          3.5          5.0         7.0         18.0     60           IC.8          7.2
Sub total                                   556.3       418.8        470.3       304.3        308.6     2,058.3      26         ,25.4       ,532.9           o
Market Services
Vehicles and  qiPpnt                                   54.5        30.0         44.0        20.5          4.0        153.0     87         1l;.0          20.0
Monses, furnishings, end ginnery market depots        222.0       109.0         -            -           94.o        425.0     29          403.2        302.C
Salaries and allowances                                69.0        95.0        121.0        129.0       106.0        520.0     18           92.0        428.0
Vehicle operating                                      13.1        13.1         13.1         13.1        13.1         65.5     44           28.8         3t.7
Sob total                                  358.6        247.1        178.1       162.6        217.1     1,163.5      32         376.8         786.7          4
Ni&86ffr4n! Servic es
(sjVebiolessand worsshop equipsent                   109.0        13.9         13.9        30.5          0.7        168.0     73          123.3         44.7
lo.scs and furnishings                            349.o        36.0         -           _            -           385.0     32          115.4        269.5
Salaries sod ollowanee                            178.3       188.3        188.3       169.5        101.3       825.7      45          370.0        455.7
Vehicle operating                                  13.5        18.3         18.3        16.2         11.4         77.7     44           34.2         43.5
Workshop operating                                 20.2        37.7         37.7        37.7         26.4       159.7      50           79.1         80.6
Sub total                                  670.o        294.2       258.2        253.9        139.8     4,616.1      45         721.1         894.0          6
(b) Road Co-str-etioc
Plant and equipmeot                               236.9       134.3         16.4          1.0         1.0        389.6     88          342._          47.6
Operating plant and equipose.t                     53.2       147.8        147.8       147.8         92.2       588.8      38          22'.9        364.9
OCstrootl.o materials, lateor                      64.3        49.6         49.6        49.6         49.6       262.7    30            134.8        127.9
1and compensation (GS)                             36.0        40.5         18.0        18.0          4.5       117.0      -           1            117.4
Roead minte.."ce (GS)                             104.9        29.0         30.5        42.5         30.5       237.4      55          129.7        107.7
Sub total                                  495.3        401.2        262.3       258.9        177.8     1,595.5      52         830.4         765.1          6
(c) Soil and Water Coeoervatioc
Pltnt and equip=ent                               278.2        _            _            29.4        -           307.6     86          265.2          42.4
Operating plant snd equipment                      14.8       104.8        104.8       104.8        104.8       434.o      41          180.7        253.3
Conatruction mater-i   and labor                   34.0        90.0         90.0        90.0         90.0       394.0      48          188.1        205.9
land compensation (GS)                              2.0         8.2          8.0          8.o         8.0         34.0     -            -             34.0
Sub t.toa                                  329.0        202.8        202.8       232.2        202.8     1,169.6      54          634.o        535.6          4
Total Engineering Servioss               1,494.3        898.2       723.3        745.0        520.4     4,381.2      50        2,186.5      2,194.7        (16)
FPss boots
Fertiliger subsidy (gras.)                             30.4       177.4        465.5        945.0     1,496.1      3,114.4     72        2,242.4        872.0         11
I-crseteal fertliser inpats                            30,3       148.2        297.9       480.0        560.9      1,517.3     72        1,092.5        424.8          6
1ncres---tal seeds., issecti.ides end batterieg        54.7        70.5        155.9       273.0        406.1        960.2     57          547.3        412.9          3
Ierneetol fa- sqoipmest                               41.6       125.8        279.2       387.8        497.5     1,331.9      80        1,065.5        266.4          s
Sob total                                  157.0        521.9     1,198.5      2,085.8     2,960.6      6,923.8      71       4,947.7       1,976.1         25
Eval*saioa UVet 3/                                    159.5        79.8         83.0         88.8        83.0        494.1     34          168.8        325.3          2
Feasibilits Studies                                   100.0        100l0        -            -                       200.0    100          200.0          -            I
Total                                    4,437.5      3,646,8      3,817.6     4.218,9      4,858.5    20,979.3      48      10,061.0      10,918.3         76
Physinal Centingeanie.  _/                            221.9       182.3        190.9        211.0       242.9      1,049.0     48          503.5        545.5          3
Price Coati.ge*ci.s     51                            893.7       974.3      1,118.1     1,160.7      1,535,4      5.682.2     48        2,727.5      2,954.7         21
Total Project Cost                       5,553.1      4,803.4      5,126.6     5,590.6      6,636,8    27,710.5      48      13,292.0      14,418.5        100
Percentage Disteibution                                20          17           19           20          24          100                    48           52
US0                                                 8,440.7     7,301.2      7,792.5     8,497.7    10,087.9    42,120.0                20,203.8     21,916.2
(GS) Sedic.t.s general service 0,st and are eatr.cted from Table 6.
V1 Totl diatribution - admiitra.tve overheads 7%. direct farer servicing 25%, roads, wtee   od soil conservatioc 16%, farm inpots 257., eval- ation 2%, project prep-ration
1% and e..tnogenctes 24%.
2/ Includes far  -ereic- sens, fare tcraaing centers nd  ed msultiplic.tion,
1/ P1i11 esnueratiees far Go.be (see Annee 9, Table 1),
4/ Physical contingencies at 5% pen r um.
5  As per Contral Projects staff  emorandum of March 29, 1974.  Loctl costs at 7%, nontingencies compounded, mochinery, sqcip.cst and cicOl  orks, variable contingency.
H. price contisgeneie. for fertiltser.
August 23, 1974



C U > osrl ~O   r_                                  _                                                                 B3g OG O O  (s) 0 00 0   0 _mo.nX4oo4=r
0 ~ ~   ~ ~ '             °°=o    o       oCmo ooooo o oo              o     o oo    0..o.-..o                            0   0 ooo0 o3 o0  0oo    oo                       0 ooo o 
o   f    f   e Z o N  w      o    o        o         00000000  o                                000    00            o0        o       o 0      o
v    0 °°0  °0 °°0°   0~0000                                                     0 v0                      0         -             000e>     0 o,  o          4
wl   f    _        0.30        0         0    0        0 _            00 _        0                                                   0    0       0  e e                              |¢oooo o ooD c .  
00           0    0000           -    00o        0    0o      0    000o    o        0Y 0>                                                    0       0A  0  r      -oo-o o ooo o o
~~~~~~ P|00                             0 '00 .  w0                  0    000__00N _  10  0  0                                                0N    0       0  0@t _ NR~           
_  ~  EEE,0 0 A       O                          _0 E_00 __                                                         
o  c  0             0      0>        0    0        0    0 o0               0         lo w oow>N     -     00 01   o         00 o       0    0  0  -       
W|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 0W                                               0                          000        i<N-AN4W N    N-e4      
fi~~~~  0000                     0          o    0                                  0s        00    0         000 oOx SSeOSr              K      o  00 o  o  0 o w0 
CO ~ ~ ~ U              i             0c  000                  0                                                 00 z0 i                                      go0°z ~ j'j ~ '   
0.                        *                00               0Q0   ._0
0C       0    00 00 0               000000000*000000    -  -                               00  0. -        000    00   _,   00   0            0  0
0~~~     ~ -  C           -               0             00           -      0        0_0          0         0     o     ei                   __         °            | f_,   -    0  0000_0000
~~~~D Y5*    0     O            E      Z             Q  =             a  0  00  00 0  E 00  -° 0  J 0  =0    _ INI 0 



N 1.;ER IA
NOBIII II000TEM 0SATE
GoNI.E ABRIPFBBRAL DEVLOPfMFUN  PROBIJEC0
Houses, Buildings, Furnishlrgsa. sd Construction Labor -nd Motoriast  for Roads asd Daso
Unit      No. of                                                                                                              Foreign tas-s.gh         Looa
Unit    Cost      Units             Year 1           Year-              Year 3           Y-ar              Fear 45         TCota                     Cst        Cost
Pro-ect Adsini.tr-tioo
Read offioe building 1/          No.      150.0         1         (        1( 75.0    (t)   75'.              -                -                 -           15C.0       30           45.0       105.0
Railhesd store                   Nc.       70.0        1          (?)      35.0             35                                                   -            70.0      30            21.0        49.o
Telephone inst.1l.tion Z/        S,t       10.0        1                                   10.0             _                 _                 _             0.0      50             5.0          5.0
-i.aor staff houses - /          No.       23.0         5         (4)      92.0    (1)      23.0             -                                               lt5.0      30            34.5        80.5
Gurst cottege                    No.        6.o         1         (1)       6.0                                                                                6.0      30             1.8          4.2
Sthff Clutb  /                             20.0                            20.0            -                 -                 -                 -            20.0      30             6.o         14.o
Intem_dtat. staff houses 5/  Nc.           18.0        7          (5)      90.0    (2)      36.0             -                 -                 -           426.0      30            37.8        86.2
Junior -t5ff houses .  /         No.        4.0         2         (2)       8.0            -                 -                 -                 -             8.0      30             2.4          5.6
S.btot.1                                                      326.o             179.0             -                 -                 -           505.0      30           153.5       351.5
Toetniosi Servicee
Senior steff hteses  /           No.       23.0         3         (3)      69.0             -                                                                 69.0       30           20.7         48.3
Iat-erdiate staff houses 9/  No.           18.0       12         (10)    180.0    (2)       36.o             -                 -                 -           216.0      30            64.8       151.2
Los  level field staff ho...r-I,No.         3.0        72        (19)      57.0   (29)       87.0   (24)       72.0             _                 _          216.0       15           32.4        183.6
Dev-lopepnt cetee offiors    No.            8.0         5         (2)      16.0    (3)      24.9             -                 -                 -            40.0      30            12.0         28.0
Village service center-   /    No.         15.0        50        (15)    225.0   (15)    225.0   (20)    300.0                 -                  -          750.0       30          225.0       525.0
Training centers 9/                                                        70.0             70.0             -                 -                              4 160.0   30            42.0        98.0
Seed eoltiplic-tion fares  /                                               34.0              14.0            _                 _                 _            68.o       30           20.4         47.6
Subtotat                                                      t651.0            476.o             372.0                                         i _  _ ,499.0  28         417.3    1,081.7
Credit Se-iors
iSniur staff hooses 3/           No.       23.0         3         (3)      69.0             -                 -                -                  -           (9.0       30           20.7         48.3
Sotert ediate 5t0ff h--ses  /  No.         18.2        10         (7)    126.0    (3)        54.0            -                 _                  _          180.0      30            54.0       126.0
Loa level field staff
houses _/ 9/                   No.        3.0      105         (35)    105.0   (30)       90.0   (40)    120.0               -                 -           315.0      14            47.3       267.7
Sobtots.1                                                     300. 0            144.0             120.0             -                 -           564.o      22           122.0       442.0
Market Services
Serior staff htoses 3/           No.       23.0         1         (1)      23.0             -                 -                 _                 _            21.0      30            6.9         16.1
Int-rmsdiatr staff hosses 5/  No.          18.0         5         (5)      90.0             -                 -                 -                 -           90.0      3o            27.0         63.0
Low lev1l field staff
houses 7/                      No.        3.0       10          (5)      15.0    (5)      15.0             -                 -                  -           30.0       15            4.5         25.5
Ginnery market depots 92/        No.       94.0         3         (1)      94.o    (1)       94.0 o                             _         (1)      94.0      282.0       30           84.6        197.4
Subtottl                                                       222.0            109.0             -                 -                   94.0      425.0       29          123.0        302.0
Enginee-ing Sevi-e
S-i-or staff hous-s 3/           N,.       23.0         5         (5)    115.0              -                 -                 -                 -          115.0       30           34.5         80.5
Inter-odiatr staff hos...  5/  No.         18.0        15        (13)    214.0    (2)        36.11            _                 _                 _          270.0       30           81.0        189.0
Building materialS for roads d Se  Amex 4. Table                           64.-              49.h              49.4              49.6              49.6      262.7       51          134.8        127.9
Building nater-lo for -oil
-nd eater  -on -rvation        See Annex 5, Tbl, 1                       34.0             90.0              90.0               90.0              90.0      394.0       48          188.1        205.9
Bubtotal                                                       447.3             17; .4            19.6' 119.6                         139.6   .,0111.7       42          438.4        603.3
Total  19/                                                     ,9446.          ,83.3h             6fL.6             139.6              23 1.6   4,0314.7      31        1,254.2    2,780.5
9/ 1,200 m2 6 N 125/n2.
9/ Includes aerrils for radio.
3/ For staff with total roolcments of more 00an N 6,0110 per ounum.
4/ Additio-s to Gombe cltb.
Foe staff with total emolments of more 0h-0  N 4,31C p., annum.
-oofil tential orerrrs 0nly  a   sober oryft wnlvih ere   -r  O ,         . -,  -  h g o-  (;-01.
/ L-o ctnodord s-nsrrctbcn laei on L-ol A,thqr-oy                     t-ecrr.o  tor s-;-r-ed  tcosI slth -ol-vnt, of more than N 1,300 4cr 5um- m.
8/Inclades 51  L- so     -   2 x 16       1 o   xlo  mplirlh,   ff-t and  -e-iro yfvsssr
N, Noo t           -tni-ig cr010rs at Kom: and Tbco  cash t,  -suomuodotc 40 oralessts  in-lidvo b-sldidogs a-I eq4ipmet.I
90/ Civil sorks at Kumo sod Tlmo  farms i-, dion: Ofi5  N 3,010, store - ed -I r-khoi N 3,O0o, watc  su.pply  15,000, f-ucing N 8,000.  Total N 34,001  -sols.  Sho-ld bO b4ilt
ir co-jO0-timO  sith troising cent-er.
J/ H-lo,i,g f-r produce i-sp-0t-r  nct incl leO.                                                                                                                                                           -  I
19/ 1nrludes 40 plinths (10   O 10a, weighbrldge  rogv-:pton ar-e,  -s-rl'y ftn-c, dr-i-ogc, ligIonli.                                -tt-al -r st-0rv  00t0orsd 0t,-c.                                        o
1_  Ntte  asbic f.rr..it-r   -d appliaces-  -r fs   and h-os-.. ore .. ^1  ½d to    o
NIr-h 7, 1974



NIGFh, A 
NOR0H EASTERN STATE
COMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Salaries and Allowances
(N '000)
Foreign Exchange            Local
Unit           Unit Cost        No of Units        Year I         Year 2          Year 3         Year 4          Year 5        Total          _            Cost            Cost
Project Administration
Project Manager                             Man Years            27.0               4         (1)   27.0       (1)   27.0    (1)  27.0   (1)  27.0                  -            108O.        100          18O              -
Project Manager                             Man years            12.0               1                   -               -               -             -     (1)  12.0             12.0         -                            12.0
Chief Admisistrative Officer                Man years             10.4              5         (1)    10.4      (1)   10.4    (1)  10.4   (1)  10.4   (1)  10.4                    52.0         -            -               52.0
Chief Accountant                            Man years            23.0               5         (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0       (1)  23.0   (1)  23.0   (1)  23.0                115.0        100          115.0            -
Principal Accountant                        Man years             8.0               9         (1)     8.0      (2)   16.0    (2)   16.0   (2)  16.0   (2)  16.0                   72.0         -             -              72.0
Accountants                                 Man years              5.5             18         (2)   11.0       (4)   22.0    (4)  22.0   (4)  22.0   (4)  22.0                    99.0         -            -               99.0
Executive Officers                          Man years              5.0             23         (3)   15.0       (5)   25.0    (5)  25.0   (5)  25.0   (5)  25.0                   115.0         -            -              115.0
Confidential secretaries                    Man years              3.0             10         (2)     6.0      (2)    6.0       (2)   6.0   (2)   6.0   (2)   6.0                 30.0         -            -               30.0
Clerical Officers and
Stenographers                              Man years             1.0              45         (5)     5.0   (10)   10.0   (10)  10.0  (10)  10.0  (10)  10.0                      45.0         -            -               45.0
Clerical Assistants                         Man years              0.7            180        (15)    10.5    (30)   21.0   (45)  31.5  (45)  31.5  (45)  31.5                    126.0         -            -              126.0
Messengers and Casual Labor                 Man years             0.3              90        (10)     3.0   (20)    6.0   (20)   6.0  (20)   6.0  (20)   6.0                      27.0         -            -               27.0
Sub-total                                                                                     118.9            166.4          176.9          176.9         161.9           801.0         28          223.0           578.0
Technical Services
Chief Technical Officer                     Man years             10.4               5        (1)    10.4      (1)   10.4    (1)  10.4   (1)  10.4   (1)  10.4                    52.0         -            -               52.0
Technical Officers                          Man years            17.0              10         (2)   34.0       (2)   34.0      (2)  34.0    (2)  34.0    (2)  34.0              170.0         100          170.0            -
Agricultural Officers                       Man years              5.0             19         (3)   15.0       (4)   20.0       (4)  20.0   (4)  20.0   (4)  20.0                 95.0         -            -               95.0
Agricultural Superintendents                Man years             4.0              39         (7)   28.0       (8)   32.0    (8)  32.0   (8)  32.0   (8)  32.0                   156.0         -            -              156.0
Agricultural Assistants                     Man years              1.3            283        (19)   24.7    (48)   62.4   (72)  93.6  (72)  93.6  (72)  93.6                     367.9         -             _             367.9
Agricultural Instructors                    Man years              0.6            780        (60)   36.0  (120)   72.0  (200) 120.0 (200) 120.0 (200) 120.0                      468.0         -            -              468.0
Sub-total                                                                                    148.1            230.8          310.0         310.0          310.9        1,308.9          13          170.0        1,138.9
Credit Services
Credit Manager                              Man years            23.0                5        (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0       (1)  23.0   (1)  23.0   (1)  23.0                115.0        100          115.0            -
Credit Manager                              Man years             10.8               1                 -               -               -             -      (1)  10.8             10.8         -             -              10.8
Senior Professionals                        Man years             8.0              10         (2)   16.0       (2)   16.0    (2)  16.0   (2)  16.0   (2)  16.0                    80.0         -            -               80.0
Credit Supervisors/Accountants              Man years              5.5             47         (7)   38.5    (10)   55.0   (10)  55.0  (10)  55.0  (10)  55.0                     258.5         -             -             259.5
Credit Assistant Grades                     Man years              1.3            415        (35)   45.5   (65)   84.5  (105) 136.5 (105) 136.5 (105) 136.5                      539.5         -             -             539.5
Sob-total                                                                                   123.0            178.5          230.5         230.5          241.3        1,003.8          12          115.0          888.8
Market Services
Chief Marketing Officer                     Man years             23.0              4         (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0       (1)  23.0   (1)  23.0              -              92.0        100            92.0           -
Divisional Marketing Officer                Man years              8.0              2                 -                -               -      (1)   8.0   (1)   8.0               16.0         -             -              16.0
Marketing Supervisor                        Man years              4.0             25         (5)   20.0       (5)   20.0       (5)  20.0   (5)  20.0   (5)  20.0                100,0          _            _             100.0
Market Assistant grade                      Man years              1.3            240        (20)   26.0   (40)   52.0   (60)  78.0  (60)  78.0  (60)  78.0                      312.0         -            -              312.0
Sub-total                                                                                    69.0             95.0          121.0         129.0          106.0           520.0         18           92.0           428.0
Engineering Services
Chief Engineer                              Man years             23.0               5        (1)   23.0       (1)   23.0       (1)  23.0   (1)  23.0   (1)  23.0                115.0        100           115.0           -
Technical Engineers                         Man years             17.0             15         (4)   68.0       (4)   68.0       (4)  68.0   (3)  51.0               -            255.0        100           255.0           -
Rural Engineers                             Man years              5.0             70        (13)   65.0    (15)   75.0    (15)  75.0  (15)  75.0  (12)  60.0                    350.0          -            -             350.0
Senior Technical Assistant Grade            Man years              1.3             64        (13)   16.9   (13)   16.9   (13)  16.9  (13)  16.9  (12)  15.6                       83.2          -            -              83.2
Technical Assistant Grade                   Man years              0.9             25         (6)      5.4     (6)      5.4     (6)    5.4   (4)   3.6   (3)   2.7                22.5          -            -               22.5
Sub-total                                                                                  1/8.3            188.3          188.3         169.5          101.3          825.7          45          370.0           455.7
1/
Total Salaries and Allowances                                                                         637.3            859.0         1.026.7       1,015.9          920.5        4,459.4          22          970.0        3 489.4
I/  Allowances for internationally recruited staff inclu.l  all resettlement co.Ls, education allowances, travel, gratuities etc. - equivalent to about 0lll of so:lary.
Allowances for local staff include leave, car allowan- e, gratuities etc. - equivaleot to 3(1% of salary.



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Running Costs of Vehicles-/ and Plant
N'000
Unit      No. of                                                                                                                       Foreign Exchange          Local
Unit        Cost       Units              Year 1             Year 2             Year 3             Year 4             Year 5           Total       71             Cost        Cost
Project Administration
4 wheel drive vehicle                    los/year    NO.07       30,000         (1)     2.1        (1)     2.1        (1)     2.1        (1)     2.1        (1)     2.1            10.5      44              4.6          5.9
Motorcar large                           km/year    NO.06        30,000         (1)     1.8        (2)     3.6        (2)     3.6        (2)     3.6        (2)     3.6            16.2      44              7.1          9.1
Motorcycles                              km/year    NO.01        15,000         (4)     o.6        (4)     0.6        (4)    0.6         (4)     0.6        (4)     0.6             3.0      44              1.3          1.7
Sub total                                                                   4.5                6.3                6.3                6.3                 6,3           29.7       44            13.0         16.7
Technical Services
4 wheel drive vehicle                    km/year    NO.07        30,000         (2)     4.2        (4)     8.4        (4)     8.4        (2)     4.2        (2)     4,2            29.4      44             12.9         16.5
Motorcar large                           km/year    NO.06        20,000         (1)     1.2        (1)     1.2        (1)     1.2        (1)     1.2        (1)     1.2             6.0      44              2.6          3.4
Pickup trucks                            km/year    NO.06       30,000          (7)    12.6        (8)    14.4        (8)   14.4         (8)    14,4        (8)    14.4            70.2      44             30.9         39.3
Personnel carrier                        km/year    NO,o6        20,000         (1)     1.2        (2)     2.4        (2)    2.4         (2)     2.4        (2)     2.4            10.8      44              4.8          6.0
Trucks 5 ton                             los/year    NO.08       30,000         (2)    4.8         (3)     7.2        (3)     7.2        (3)     7.2        (3)     7.2            33.6      44             14.8         18.8
Motorcycles                              km/year    NO.01        12,000        (19)     2.3       (48)     5.8       (72)    8.6        (72)     8.6       (72)     8.6            33.9      44             14.9         19.0
Sub total                                                                  26.3               39.4               42.2                38.o              38.0           183.9       44            80.9        103.0
Credit Services
4 wheel drive vehicle                    km/year    NO.07        30,000         (1)     2.1        (1)     2.1        (1)     2.1        (1)     2.1        (1)      2.1           10.5      44              4.6          5.9
Motorcar large                           km/year    NO.06        20,000         (1)      1.2       (1)     1.2        (1)     1.2        (1)     1.2        (1)      1.2            6.0      44              2.6          3.4
Pickup trucks                            km/year    No.06       30,000          (5)     9.0        (5)     9.0        (5)     9.0        (5)     9.0        (5)     9.0            45.0      44             19.8         25.2
Motorcycles                              km/year    NO.O1        10,000        (30)     3.0       (60)    6.o       (10)   10.0        (100)    10.0      (100)    10.0            39.0      44             17.2         21.8
Sub total                                                                   15.3              18.3               22.3                22.3               22.3          100.5       44            44.2         56.3
Market Services
4 wheel drive vehicle                    km/year    NO.07        30,000         (1)      2.1       (1)      2.1       (1)     2.1        (1)      2.1       (1)      2.1           10.5       44             4.6           5.9
Pickup trucks                            km/year    NO.06        30,000         (5)     9.0        (5)     9.0        (5)    9.0         (5)     9.0         (5)     9.0           45.0       44            19.8         25.2
Motorcycles                              km/3ear    NO.O1        20,000        (10)      2.0      (10)      2.0      (10)     2.0       (10)      2.0      (10)      2.0           10.0       44             4.4           5.6
Sub total                                                                   13.1               13.1              13.1                13.1               13.1           65.5       44             28.8         36.7
Engineering Services
4 wheel drive vehicle                    km/year      NO.07      30,000          (3)     6.3        (3)     6.3       (3)    6.3         (2)    4.2          (2)     4.2           27.3       44             12.0         15.3
Pickup trucks                            km/year    NO.06        20,000         (6)      7.2      (10)   12.0        (10)   12.0        (10)    12,o         (6)     7.2           50.4       44            22.2          28.2
Road construction plant 2/               See Annex 4, Table 4                          53.2              147.8              147.8              147.8                92.2          588.8       38           223.9         364.9
Workshop operating                       See Annex 4, Table 4                           20.2              37.7               37.7                37.7               26.4          159.7       50             79.1         80.6
Soil and water conservation plant  See Annex 5, Table 1                                14.8              104.8              104.8              104.8               104.8          434.0       41           180.7         253.3
Sub total                                                                  101.7              308.6             308.6               306.5              234.8        1,260.2       41            517.9        742.3
Total Running Costs of Vehicles and Plant                                  160.9             385.7              392.5               386.2              314.5        1,639.8       42            684.8        955.0
1/ Includes fuel, lub., filters, tyres, spares and repairs, and driver (excludes depreciation).
2/ Includes labor.
March 2, 1974
5. D
r55X
Cn 



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
General Service Costs
N'000
No. of                                                                                                    Foreign Exchange       Local
Unit             Unit Cost    Units            Year I           Year 2          Year 3           Year 4           Year 5       Total       %            Cost    Cost
HQ Expenises
Project head office                                                                       3.0              6.o              9.0             9.0              9.0    36.0       50            18.0      18.0
Development Center Office           Each                0.5              25      (  5)    2.5   (  5)    2.5   ( 5)    2.5   (  5)    2.5   (  5)    2.5    12.5               50             6,2       6.3
Service Center Office               Each                0.1             195      ( 15)    1.5   ( 30)    3.0   ( 50)    5.0   ( 50)    5.0   ( 50)    5.0    19.5              50             9.7       9.8
Telephone, Cables                                                                          2.0             4.0              6.o             6.o              6.0    24.0       -              -        24.0
Field Radio Maintenance                                                                    2.0             4.0              5.0             5.0              5.0    21.0       -              -        21.0
House Rentals 1/                    Rental years        0.5              70      ( 58)   29.0   ( 12)    6.0               -               -                -        35.0      -              -        35.0
Building Maintenance 21                                                                   -               46.2             69.8            82.1             82.1   280.2       10            28.0    252.2
Insurance on Plant & Equipment 3/                                                        20.5             28.0             28.0            28.0             28.0   132.5       40           53.0       79.5
Sub total                                                                     60.5             99.7           125.3            137.6            137.6   560.7       21          114.9    445.8
Credit Operations
Maintenance of Equipment and Stationery                                                    0.5             2.0              3.5              5.0             7.0    18.0       60            10.8       7.2
Land Compensation
Dam Sites 4/                        Each                0.4              85      (  5)    2.0   ( 20)    8.0   ( 20)    8.0   ( 20)    8.0   ( 20)    8.o    34.0              -              -        34.0
Road Right of Ways 5/               ha                  0.045         1,400      (100)    4.5   (400)   18.0   (400)   18.0   (400)   18.0   (100)    4.5    63.0              -              -        63.o
Land Purchase 6/                    ha                  0.045           200      (200)    9.0             -                -               -                -         9.0      -              -         9.0
Land Clearing 7/                    ha                  0.075           600      (300)   22.5   (300)   22.5               -               -                -        45.0      -              -        45.0
Sub total                                                                     38.0             48.5             26.0            26.o             12.5   151.0       -              -       151.0
Tractor Hire Service               /
Tractor and Implement Operating- Tractor/year           1.35             39      ( 10)   13.5    ( 10)   13.5   ( 10)   13.5   (  6)    8.1   (  3)    4.1    52.7             44            23.2      29.5
Farmer Training Centers
Running Cost Food Supplies 9/    Training Center/  8.0                    9      (  1)    8.0   (  2)   16.0   (  2)   16.0   (  2)   16.o   (  2)   16.0    72.0               -             -        72.0
Year
Seed Multiplication Farms           Annex 3, Schedule 1                                   27.3            48.1             62.4             62.4            62.4   262.6        50          131.3    131.3
Road Maintenance 10/                Annex 4, Table 5                                     104.9            29.o             30.5             42.5            30.5   237.4        55          129.7    107.7
Total General Service Costs                                                  252.7            256.8           277.2            297.6            270.1 1,354.4        30         409.9    944.5
1/ Project senior staff AO and AS grades during first year of service prior to completion of houses, average cost N 500/annum.
2/ 24% of capital cost, capital cost N'WOO: Year I - 1,848; Year 2 - 2,792; Year 3 - 3,284; Year 4 - 3,284; Year 5 - 3,378.
3/ At 2% per annum, includes third party, fire risk and workmen's compensation.
4/8 ha per dam @ N 45 per ha i.e. N 360 per dam - say N 400.
5/ 1,400 ha @ N 45 ha.
6/ Purchase of land for seed farm at Tumu @ N 45/ha - Kumo seed farm developed from forest reserve area, south of Kumo ginnery.
7/ Land clearing @ N 75 per ha.
8/ 900 hours/tractor/annum @ N 1.5/hr - phased out over 5 years.
9/ 8,000 student days per annum @ N I per day.
10/ See Annex 4, Table 5 includes capital and recurrent costs.
March 2, 1974



NIGWEIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPXENT PROJECT
Details of Proiect Financing
Par Disbursement
Schedule
Year 1           Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5           Total            us$'o               US$ million
IBRD Disbursements
Category
I. Vehicle, plant and equipment                   809.2            265.3            147.1            133.9             50.1          1,405.6          2,136.5                    2.1
II. Farm inputs                                     89.9            244.6            520.4            810.0          1.039,8          2,704.7          4,111.1                    4.1
III. Salaries and allowances
(a) Expatriates recruited internationally 221.0              221.0            221.0            204.0            103.0             970.0          1,474.4                    1.5
(b) Staff recruited locally                 249.8            382.8            483.4            487.1            490.5          2,093.6           3,182.3                    3.2
IV. Buildings, houses, and construction
material                                  1,167.7            650.1             379.0             83.8            140,2          2,420.8          3,679.6                    3.7
V. Field Evaluation Unit                           95.7             47.9             49.8             53.3             49,8            296.5            450.7                    0.5
VI. Feasibility studies                            100.0            100.0             -                -                -               200.0             304.0                   0.3
VII. Unallocated                                    633.2            670.4            707.7            744.9            968.4          3,724.6           5,661.4                   5.6
Sub total                              3,366.5          2,582.1          2,508.4          2,517.0           2,841.8         13,815.8         21,000.0                   21.0
North Eastern State Government Funds
Vehicles, plant and equipment                       214.6             94.7             61.0             71.1             26.1            467.5              -                        -
Subsidies                                            30.4            177.4            465.5            945.0          1,496.1          3,114.4              -                        -
Farm inputs                                          12.1             23.0             48.1             66.1             81.0             230.3             -                        -
Salaries locally recruited staff                    166.5            255.2            322.3            324.8            327.0          1,395.8              -                        -
Buildings, houses and construction materials        778.6            433.5            252.6             55.8              93.4          1,613.9             -                        -
Field evaluation                                     63.8             31.9             33.2              35.5             33.2            197.6             -                        -
Vehicle and plant operating                         160.9            385.7            392.5            386.2            314.5           1,639.8             -                        -
General services                                    252.7            256.8            277.2             297.6            270.1          1,354.4             -                        -
Unallocated                                         456.1            483.0            509.8            536.6             697,6          2,683.1             -                        -
Sub total                              2,135.7          2,141.2          2,362.2           2,718.7          3,339.0         12,696.8              -                       -
Farmers Funds
Farm inputs                                          24.6             76.9            164.5             264.7            343,7            874.4             -                        -
Unallocated                                          55.0             58.2             61.5              64.7             84,1            323.5             -                        -
Sub total                                 79.6            135.1            226.o            329.4            427.8           1,197.9             -                        -
Total Financing                        5,581.8          4,858.4           5,096.6          5,565.1          6,608.6         27,710.5              -                        -
August 26, 1974



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Illustrative Cash Flow for NES
N'OOO
Year I        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         Year 5         Year 6         Year 7         Year 8         Year 9         Year 10
Inflow of Funds
Loans from FMG 1/                                 3,236.5       2,452.1        2,508.4        2,517.o        2,841.8           -              -              -              -
Outflow of Funds
Costs
Vehicle, plant and equipment 2/                   1,023.8          360.0          208.1          205.1           76.2          42.4           76.8           30.4           32.o             75.2
Houses, buildings and construction 3/             1,946.3        1,083.6          631.6         139.6          233.6           -              -              -              -                -
Staff salaries and allowances 4/                    637.3          859.0       1,026.7        1,015.9          920.5          769.1          361.0          331.o          331.0           331.0
Vehicle operating 5/                                160.9          385.7         392.5          386.2          314.5           75.2           38.6           38.6           38.6             38.6
General service Cost 6/                             252.7          256.8          277.2          297.6          270.1         249.5          241.5          238.9          238.9            238.9
Subsidy                                              30.4          177.4         465.5          945.0        1,496.1        1,500.0        1,500.0        1,500.0        1,500.0         1,500.0
Evaluation                                          159.5           79.8           83.0          88.8           83.0           -              -              -              -                -
Revolving credit fund 7/                            102.0          321.5          568.5         876.1        1,120.8           -              -              -               -
Contingencies                                     1,059.3        1,123.4       1,217.5        1,281.5        1,666.0          400.0          400.0          400.0          400.0           400.0
Sub total                              5,372.2        4,647.2        4,870.6        5,235.8        6,180.8        3,036.2        2,617.9        2,538.9       2,540.5          2,583.7
Loan Repayment to FMG
Commitment charges 8/                                77.4           59.0           40.2           21.3           -             -              -              -               -               -
Interest during grace period 9/                     258.9         455.1           655.8         857.2        1,084.5           -              -              -               -               -
Principal and interest 10/                           -              -              -              -              -          1,567.8        1,567.8        1,567.8        1,567.8          1,567.8
Sub total                                336.3          514.1          696.o          878.5        1,084.5        1,567.8        1,567.8        1,567.8        1,567.8         1,567.8
Total Outflow                          5,708.5        5,161.3        5,566,6        6,114.3        7,265.3        4,604.0       4,185.7         4,106.7        4,108.3         4,151.5
Balance                                          (2,472.0)      (2,709.2)      (3,058.2)      (3,597.3)      (4,423.5)     (4,604.0)      (4,185.7)      (4,106.7)       (4,108.3)       (4,151.5)
1/ Onlending of IBRD loan.
2/ Replacements exclude items listed in note 5 below.
3/ Maintenance included under general service costs.
4/ From year 7 marketing service costs absorbed by NSMB, and credit service cost transferred to a more formal self financing institution.
5/ Excludes those services as per note 4 above.
6/ Excludes road maintenance from year 7.                                                                                                                                                         1 
7/ Incremental cost only.                                                                                                                                                                         " x
8/ 3/4 of 1% on undisbursed Bank loan.                                                                                                                                                              x
9/For 5 years @ 8%.
10/ N 13,555,800 @ 8% repayable in 30 equal installments of interest and principal over 15 years from year 6-20.
August 26, 1974



ANNEX La
Table 3
WIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule of Bank Ican
US$ million     Cumulative US$ million
FY 1275
Senester 1                        -
Semester 2                       i16                   165
FY 1976
Semester 1                       3>0                   4.5
Semester 2                       205                   7.o
FY.1977
Semester 1                       165                   8.5
Semester 2                       165                 lOo0
FY 1978
Semester 1                       2.0                  12.0
Semester 2                       20a                  14.o
FY 19Z9
Semester 1                       200                  160o
Semester 2                       200                  18.0
FV. 1980
Semester 1                       2.0                  20,0
Semester 2                       1.0                  21,0
August 26, 1974






ANNEX 12
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Background Summary
1.        To date officially organized marketing in the northern States has
been confined to the so called cash crops, primarily cotton and groundnuts.
Arrangements for food crops have evolved through the private sector on a
laissez-faire basis with minimal assistance, or interference, from Federal
or State Governments. Producer prices for cash crops have been determined by
world levels (over which Nigeria has little influence) and the need to generate
Government revenue. Food prices have been determined by domestic supply demand
relationships in an essentially self sufficient environment largely uninfluenced
by world levels. The basic conflict between the systems has only recently be-
come apparent as the price effect of increased food grain demand has impacted
on overall cropping patterns.
2.        The geographical extent of the country, difficulty of communication
and the widespread nature of basically subsistence oriented food crop pro-
duction has prevented the development of an integrated national grain-market.
Consequently there has grown up a multiplicity of small, unrelated markets;
these are probably rather efficient in themselves but they nevertheless give
rise to marked spatial and temporal price irregularities. In such an imperfect
situation, inelasticity of market demand has a magnifying effect on price move-
ment and emphasises inadequacies in both structure and system. Prices for food
grains are now, however, sufficiently high to compete with traditional cash
crops where labor constraints permit. Nevertheless there is continued heavy
private and state investment in agro-industry, particularly seed crushing, and
textile mills much of which will remain underutilized unless significant in-
creases in marketed output of the traditional cash crops are achieved.
3.        In order to improve the situation, increase relative cash crop re-
turns and overcome imperfections and inefficiencies in statutory marketing
systems, FMG has initiated a series of policy and organizational changes.
Producer prices are now Federal rather than State responsibility, taxes have
been reduced or abolished, and some means of fixing marketing overheads are
being introduced. To stimulate food grain production a form of price support
is planned operating through a national storage and marketing program. A
series of national grain production units (State owner and operated commercial
farms) is also contemplated. Detailed plans for the implementation of these
policies have still to be announced. There is clearly considerable room, and
need, for improvements in marketing if proper benefits of better production
technology are to accrue to both producer and consumer; however recent and



ANNEX 12
Page 2
current intercrop price relationships show the importance of an overall,
balanced approach if production of one set of crops is not to be unduly en-
hanced at the expense of others. Certainly the development of a medium term
minimum price policy, coupled with timely preplanting announcement of producer
prices for gazetted crops is badly needed.
B. Statutory Marketing Organzations
4.        Scheduled crops 1/ are marketed through statutory organizations
controlling a series of franchise operations - each of which may have oppor-
tunities to exploit a monopolistic position. Until recently the primary
marketing organization (NSMB) enjoyed the dominant role, coordinating the
functions of the various participants in the system (LBA, CAP, NPMC). FMC
has now taken over NPMC as part of the program to reorganize and improve
marketing; 2/ NSMB will now act only as purchasing agent for its erstwhile
subsidiary, which will continue to carry out the export marketing function.
5.        Producer prices for statutory crops have become a Federal responsi-
bility, recommendations being made to the Head of State by the Technical
Committee on Produce Prices. NSMB will pass on produce to NPMC at a fixed
price, intended to take into account NSMB marketing costs and administrative
overheads. These have still to be determined and agreed. NSMB operations
are extensive and the difficulties exacerbated by lack of communication
facilities, particularly feeder roads. Apart from obvious consequent prob-
lems of crop movement, this limitation also results in considerable hindrance
to the exercise of proper financial and operational control over all those
involved in produce marketing.
6.        Rural buying and first assembly are performed through a system of
licensed buying agents (LBA) and subagents. Quality control is the responsi-
bility of the Produce Inspection Department (PID) of the Ministry of Natural
Resources. Cotton is officially graded by Produce Examiners (PE) prior to
purchase at gazetted markets. Groundnuts are officially graded by Produce
Inspectors (PI) after purchase and on presentation at designated inspection
points. Check grading takes place when goods are moved into or from NSMB sto-
rage points. LBA are required to arrange their own finance for purchases and
are paid (through discountable produce receipts) upon delivery to NSMB depot.
Despite this payment LBA remain responsible for "their" produce while it is
stored and until it is despatched to the consumer.
1/   In the project area cotton and groundnuts are the most important.
2/   The new policy aims at reducing the burden of taxation; reducing statutory
marketing overheads, transferring world price developments more accurately
to producers.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
7.        NSMB accounts are not available beyond 1967/68 and even these are
unreliable; costings used in this annex are therefore derived or implied, and
are not objective measures of actual performance. Estimated 1972 marketing
costs expressed as percentage of the FOB price are as follows:
Groundnuts           Cotton Lint
NPMC                            1                    1
NSMB                            3.3                 5
CAP (BCGA)                      -                   8
LBA                             5    9.3             7    21
Transport, handling
Bags, Insurance,               13                   13
storage, port charges               13                    13
Produce Sales Tax               2                    2
Export Duty                    16   18              15    17
NSMB Profits                         4.7                   -
45.0                51.0
8.        Export duty and produce sales tax have been abolished and replaced
by a single produce tax. This is set at 10% of producer price compared with
about 25% before the reform.
9.        World prices currently at a very high level are expected to decline
over the course of the project; the fixed nature of most marketing costs means
that such a decline would be disproportionately reflected in resulting producer
prices. It is therefore important that new policies and practices result in
the best possible relative return to farmers thereby increasing production
incentives at given crop values. To attempt to overcome the problem by ar-
bitrary reduction of agency allowances, in reflection of individual crop pro-
sperity, would only result in the 'saving' being translated into a direct or
indirect reduction of the price actually paid to producers.
10.       Since the project would operate within the statutory marketing
system it is necessary to identify the deficiencies and outline ways in which
improvements may be made. This may be doubly important in view of the possible
parallel development of a price support program for food grains..



ANNEX 12
Page 4
C. Marketing Policy and Organization
Fragmentation of Responsibility
11.       Absence of total marketing responsibility, particularly at primary
level, frustrates the emergence of corporate pride and wholehearted effort so
important in an operation of this nature. The present system of split respon-
sibilities under which PID and not NSMB are responsible for the conduct of
markets operated by NSMB agents, as well as aspects of produce quality, is
more divisive than cohesive. It appears to provide more opportunities for
abuse than for the imposition of independent checks and balances which it is
intended to do. Clearly, independent inspection is essential at a point or
points in the marketing chain, however the organization responsible for market-
ing should not only control its agents but should also have power to decide
whether or not produce is of sound marketable quality. It should then be in
a position to adequately control storage and accept the consequent risks.
Presently NSMB bears a number of risks without compensatory control. Possible
abuse of quality (and thus price) at primary level may be overcome partially
by inspection but mainly by proper competitive buying.
Late Announcement of Seasonal Guaranteed Prices
12.       In the past prices have seldom been announced prior to planting.
This has prevented firm price considerations from affecting planting decisions.
Furthermore, inter-seasonal world price variations reflect conditions over
which Nigeria has little or no control or influence. Consequently the linking
of annual producer prices to projected world levels is likely to result in
magnified production fluctuations compared with a rather stable domestic
demand. A 'rolling' three to five year minimum price structure, related to
projected world prices, should be developed. This would encourage better
planning at farm level and assist achievement of greater interseasonal pro-
duction stability. Within this structure, minimum seasonal prices would be
announced before planting, and confirmed (or increased if justified) prior
to the opening of markets.
Lack of an effective crop reporting and market intelligence system
13.       This prevents early assessment of crop sizes and dispositions and
either prevents timely marketing decisions from being made, or causes them
to be inadequately based. The establishment of an intelligence service is
a long term undertaking, however early and significant improvements could be
achieved by instituting a more widespread comparative two-way reporting system
among members of MNR, Local Authorities, and NSMB staff, coordinated at
State and Federal level. It must be emphasized that communication needs to
be two way: a field reporter should be kept informed of conditions outside
his immediate area, if only to maintain his interest. The present practice
of keeping crop and weather reports under 'secret' cover is self defeating.
The development of an intelligence service is essential to improving food
grain marketing.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
D. Marketing Practices
The Licensed Buying Agent (LBA)
14.       The number of LBA is relatively small compared to the number of
agents and sub-agents directly or indirectly employed. Although open compet-
ition is officially encouraged it hardly exists except in areas directly tribu-
tary to major highways. Transportation difficulties are very real and non-
competitive practices result, with little encroachment by one LBA on the
'territory' of another. In general, LBA perform reasonably well, but the un-
scrupulous have not been adequately disciplined in the past; the monopolistic
positions achieved for individual LBA by a network of subagents and buyers
means that suspension or dismissal of a LBA, mid season, could result in farm-
ers being worse off through denial of outlets for their produce. Most of the
'normal' methods of cheating in produce marketing are employed at various
degrees at all levels of trade. These include underweighing and undergrading,
imposition of 'dash' payments for inspection services, degradation of gazetted
market services (thereby forcing sales elsewhere) etc. LBA and their agents
naturally do not confine their activities solely to produce, however the advance
of consumer credit at other times, for ultimate repayment with produce, provides
another means of 'buying' at less than gazetted levels. The fact that produce
payments by NSMB are not always prompt or assured, provides constant encourage-
ment for cheating to continue.
15.       Buying Seasons are over extended relative to volume purchased.  This
increases costs and further degrades competition through frequent absences of
buyers and PID staff.
16.       Movement and Storage particularly of groundnuts, is poorly planned
and executed. This is partially due to lack of crop information but also due
to system rigidities which prevent optimum use being made of the resources
and facilities of the local agro-industry. The continuation of LBA responsi-
bility for produce while it is in NSMB depots or dumps adds unnecessarily to
storage costs.
E. Individual Crop Marketing
Cotton Marketing
17.       Cotton marketing is probably the most highly technical of all annual
crops and maximum cooperation among all involved in the industry is essential
if producer and consumer requirements are to be satisfactorily blended and
returns assured.



ANNEX 12
Page 6
18.       Recent experience shows that production is price sensitive; thus
the projected decline in world values makes it even more important that post
harvest and preplanting costs are reduced as much as possible. Ways of effec-
ting further savings need to be explored as well, and in this respect the
project should be able to make a significant contribution. The main defects
include:
(i) high seed waste and loss;
(ii) poor handling and storage techniques up to point of ginning; and
(iii) absence of independent quality assessment of cotton lint.
Seed wastage
19.       Planting seed is dressed and distributed to strategically sited
stores, where it is held before being issued free of charge. Apparent plant-
ing rate is three to six times that recommended but seed is also used for other
purposes, such as fertilizer, and as an effective "smudge" fire against mosqui-
toes. Although theoretically free, cotton seed is traded in village markets,
sellers usually being those who live near a cottonseed store and have managed
to work a corner on local supplies. Cotton seed accounts for about 65% of the
weight and 35% of the total value of seed cotton; it costs about N 15.00 a ton
to dress and deliver to store, thus every ton of seed unnecessarily dressed
and distributed results in a marketing loss of about N 65.00. For 1973/74 the
total cost is probably in excess of N 1.3 million, or, in terms of producer
returns, rather more than 1 kobo/kg seed cotton, equivalent to 8% of the pro-
ducer price in the 1973/74 season. Part of the cause of over supply of plant-
ing seed (for which allowances have been made in arriving at the above figure)
is the relatively poor performance of fuzzy, i.e. undelinted seed. The solu-
tion would seem to lie in progressively moving toward a situation where only
"improved" (i.e. delinted) seed is available and for which at least a nominal
price has to be paid by growers.
20,       By using acid delinting all costs of dressing would be saved (and
the mixers released for other seed treatment), empty seeds would be floated
off and high germination reasonably assured. After allowing a 30% weight loss
-or delinting and seed selection, at least half of the customarily required
quantity of seed would thus become available for sale. Additional expense
would be incurred in packaging seed for sale in 10 kg bags, but this cost as
well as that of actual delinting would be more than compensated by the sav-
ings in both seed and distribution costs. The project would be an excellent
vehicle for developing this approach, all seed being sold through service
centers. Estimated financial benefits would be about N 5.8 per ton of seed
cotton. The estimated cost of delinting, distributing and packaging is about
40 kobo per 10 kg pack (enough for 0.5 ha) so the sale price could be rela-
tively nominal, however some charge must be made, and better seed performance
demonstrated, if the present widespread abuses are to be curbed and a great-
er proportion of the real value of seed cotton realized. In discussions
with CAP and its parent company, the principle of their installing acid delin-
ting plants during the project has been tentatively agreed, subject to suit-
able arrangements being made concerning fees.



ANNEX 12
Page 7
21.       Handling and storage of seed cotton.  After purchase, seed cotton is
packed in 100 lb bags and transported to dumps near the ginneries. From there
it is ultimately moved to the gin, being reweighed, unbagged and check graded
into the suction room. LBA remain responsible for the cotton they have pur-
chased until after it has been weighed into the gin, although provisional pay-
ment will already have been made to them on purchased weights and grades.
There is little enthusiasm or incentive among LBA to ensure proper storage in
the dumps: spoilage of cotton through failure to provide stillage is usual.
PID control is sketchy and it is by no means unusual for LBA to wet seed cotton
before it is weighed into the gin in an attempt to increase weight and/or over-
come losses caused by natural shrinkage or other less easily explained causes.
22.       Efficiency would be improved and losses reduced by providing fixed
(plinth) storage at the dumps and limiting responsibility of LBA to delivering
cotton to point of storage, from which time it would come under the charge of
ginners (CAP), until completion of the ginning process. Although no procedural
changes in marketing have yet been agreed, the project does provide for the
construction of proper seed cotton reception and storage facilities adjacent
to ginneries. Total cost of each storage depot (there would be three con-
structed under the project) is estimated at N 94,000 including cost of a
weighbridge. The possibility of opening ginnery markets, for the purchase of
large lots, i.e. group marketed produce, needs to be investigated, as does
the feasibility of reducing handling by bulk movement of cotton from village
markets.
23.       Absence of independent lint quality assessment.  Seed cotton is
graded on purchase and prior to ginning, and the lint is subsequently classified
by CAP, for which service they receive a flat fee payment from NSMB. The crop
is then allocated to spinners taking account of their stated requirements,
(prepared 12 months in advance) and classes actually available. No selling
samples are furnished nor in cases of dispute is there any provision for in-
dependent quality determination, although these are customary trade practices,
and are performed on all export contracts. A partial consequence is an almost
total lack of cooperation within the industry, and while neither side is blame-
less, the take it or leave it attitude of sellers does not contribute to a
greater degree of understanding. The manufacturers could contribute to a
greater degree of understanding, and could contribute considerably to the well-
being of the cotton industry through their technical and research expertise
and experience elsewhere, and it is important that a more coordinated approach
is adopted.
24.       The whole approach to cotton marketing is lack-lustre and far great-
er enthusiasm needs to be generated if anticipated falls in world values are
not to make the crop unremunerative. Ginneries are well sited and could be-
come catalysts for production instead of just processing agencies; the possible
development of much closer links between the State Government and CAP might
assist this. Greater participation by spinners in development could result
in competitive contract ginning: whatever does happen, marketing costs must
be brought into more reasonable relationship with the value of the crop.



ANNEX 12
Page 8
25.       Cotton Ginning.  The ginning season extends for about 24 weeks from
December to June and ginning capacities are calculated on this basis (Table
3). These levels have been exceeded by up to 20% in exceptional years but
absence of covered storage for seed cotton makes extension of the season im-
practical. Additional facilities,would be needed towards the end of the proj-
ect development period and management of CAP is willing to increase effective
capacity as justified by sustained growth of production. Detailed arrangements
would be concluded by project management, MNR, NSMB and CAP during the devel-
opment period. All ginning is done under contract with NSMB, the present
agreement expiring in 1976. Estimated break even is about 200,000 bales, after
which fees are reduced; mean output over the last 13 years was 262,000 bales
(249,000 omitting highest and lowest years).
Groundnut Marketing
26.       Groundnuts are purchased from farmers at buying points licensed by
the Local Authority, although considerable 'assembly buying' by subagents also
occurs outside licensed markets. Operations are not supervised and farmers,
particularly in areas remote from roads, are frequently cheated. Conversely,
the way in which LBA allowances are calculated results in strong competition
in areas near inspection stations and inducements in cash or kind may be
offered in order to attract offerings from farmers. All purchases are in-
spected and graded at PID supervised inspection stations before being moved
into NSMB depots where they are checked and stacked in pyramids. LBA remain
responsible for stored nuts until they are despatched for export or to local
mills.
27.       Groundnuts should be moved as little as possible in order to minimize
percentage of "splits and brokens" which are more liable to aflatoxin infection
and reduce the quality of a sample. Current practices could be improved and
handling reduced, particularly now that local crushing capacity is beginning
to outstrip groundnut production.  Much of the present overhandling is, how-
ever due to lack of adequate early information concerning the size and geo-
graphical disposition of the crop; until this situation is remedied unnecessary
marketing costs will continue to be incurred. Nevertheless the establishment
of depots adjacent to mills would cut out quite a large amount of present
handling and double transport. Consideration should also be given Mto the
establishment of depot markets to Which Farmer Associations or other similar
marketing groups could deliver directly. This type of operation would be
well suited for development within the project since nuts could be assembled
and graded at a service center, and then either held to the order of NSMB
(storage charges being payable) or despatched to mill or exported.
28.       Export marketing is carried out by NPMC, with local crushers being
allowed to buy at a level equivalent to world price. This price is deter-
mined and fixed daily by NPMC- and representatives of the oil millers, who are
free to make their own arrangements for the sale of oil and cake. Raw mate-
rial price movements are not usually immediately reflected in those of the
products, and vice versa; it can be argued that local millers have the put
and take on the market. This may be true to some extent, certainly a better



ANNEX 12
Page 9
overall price could be realized if the marketing agency had selling options
(i.e. nuts, oil or cake or combinations thereof) always open to it. The
possibilities and potential ramifications of this should be investigated but,
on the face of it, benefits are likely to be small relative to the risks in-
volved and the sophistication of information and action required. Neverthe-
less, the projected declines in world value through increasing competition from
other sources of oil and protein make it essential that marketing practices,
and costs are carefully examined and improvements made, wherever possible.
Marketing and the Project
29.       Trends of marketed production over the last decade combined with
recent food price developments properly reflect the failure of the marketing
systems, statutory and otherwise, to adequately transmit consumer needs to
producers. Relatively poor production performance is not solely the fault of
marketing - lack of education and associated physical inputs such as fertilizer
is also to blame - but the inescapable fact remains that for statutory crops at
least, farmers have not been offered enough incentive in terms of price and/or
service to encourage increased output. This failure of the system has been
heightened by shortcomings within the system which have led to apparently in-
creasing abuses and consequent accelerated producer disenchantment. Under the
project, steps would be taken to rectify this position; indeed, faith in the
systems must be restored if projected benefits are to be generated. To facil-
itate this transition maximum use would be made of the physical facilities
within the project together with some organizational and operational changes.
30.       Abuse and avasion of statutory marketing requirements by LBA and
PID staff has been made easier by the small farmers basic lack of bargaining
power. The cooperative movement has been neither widespread nor effective
enough to alter this situation. Project staffed service centers would not
purchase products but would provide a focal point for farmers from which
they would draw advice and assistance and at which they would collectively
increase their bargaining power. The service center would become a place
of first assembly and storage from which, eventually, deliveries would be
made directly to domestic buyers or point of export. On such a basis the
project would make the following marketing improvements:
(i) Restoring or establishing producers faith in the system
through:
(a) early announcement of producer prices;
(b) adequate control and discipline of marketing agents;
(c) enhanced competition at gazetted markets;
(d) provision of timely and accurate market intelligence;
(e) facilities for increasing individual farmers bargaining
power; and



ANNEX 12
Page 10
(f) assistance in securing profitable outlets for new cash
crops, such as maize.
(ii) Developing a more disciplined approach to statutory marketing
by producers, thereby cutting costs;
(iii) Investigating and developing new approaches in order to ensure
the producer as large a share as possible of ultimate product
value.
31.       Statutory Crop Purchasing.  LBA and their subagents in the project
area would be subject to approval by project management. Since project super-
visory coverage of all sorts would be fairly intensive, abuses by LBA or their
agents should be quickly discovered and similarly dealt with.
32.       In order to ensure that crop purchases are not impeded through lack
of finance, arrangements would be made by NSMB (or NPMC) for working capital
requirements, as estimated by project management, to be advanced to LBA in
the project area.
33.       LBA should quickly realize that there is more to be lost than gained
by attempting to cheat farmers. Apart from much easier transport as a result
of the improved roads, as well as more easily obtained crop finance; LBA oper-
ating in the project area would be best placed to benefit from the immediate
economic consequences of increased production, not least would be back hauls
with farm inputs as well as other generally more attractive consumer goods.
34.       Project management would be given LBA status.  While it is not
intended that the project should carry out any crop purchasing, such an ap-
pointment would enable sub-licensing, and therefore full audit control, of
emergent farmer or other associations wishing and competent to engage in
group marketing. Such a system would greatly ease the potential problems of
training emergent marketers.
35.       Fair buying practices would be encouraged through the careful siting
of markets. Initially these would be situated as jointly agreed between proj-
ect management, PID, NSMB, and appropriate Local Authority. Over the course
of the project gazetted markets would come to be sited only directly adjacent
to a servicing center. Actual purchasing would be carried out under the direct
supervision of the project employed PE or PI. Farmers would be encouraged to
weigh their produce on the dial or self recording scale prior to sale. The
principle of competive servicing of producers would be reasserted and every
market would have at least two authorized buyers. Table 5 shows schematic
layout of a proposed center.
36.       Extended seasons add unnecessarily to marketing costs, reduced super-
vision and competition, and make early assessment of marketable production
more difficult. After peak marketing periods, purchases would only be made
on set market days; in addition the possibility of shortening the marketing



ANNEX 12
Page 11
season would be investigated. Although this would result in greater flows
and increased peak cash requirements during certain months, the benefits of
having earlier control of the crop would outweigh these considerations.
37.       While these steps should result in a considerable improvement in
farmers gross receipts for a given weight of produce, some of their possible
impact would be lost if they are not matched by an effective pricing policy.
It is essential that firm preplanting prices are widely announced.
38.       Food grains and other crops.  The facilities of the service center
would be available to Farmer Associations for assembly and short term storage;
difficulties over identity preservation would make it impractical to allow sim-
ilar use by individuals. Lack of accurate information is one of the major
constraints to improving food grain marketing. Under the project a market
intellingence system would be established to collect, disseminate and analyze
news about supply, demand and prices in various market centers. Services
would be centered on each Development Centre Unit and coordinated by the
marketing section in Project Headquarters. Collection and dissemination
in the project area would be achieved through the Service Centers, while a
regular reporting system from major markets which could be supplied by proj-
ect production would be established in conjunction with MNR.
39.       In addition to supervising the information systems, the marketing
section at project headquarters would also have prime responsibility for
market and marketing development. Market development would include, for
example, exploring and expanding the possibilities of securing profitable
outlets through some form of contract growing for, inter alia, the feed indus-
try. It should also cover the identification of potentially profitable 'new'
crops, such as confectionary groundnuts, and provide commercial guidelines for
the research effort. Marketing development would be specifically aimed at
cutting costs or increasing values through such things as better crop handling
and storage techniques, contract processing, and the employment of a generally
more imaginative approach to marketing problems.
G. Prices and Marketing of Maize, Sorghum and Cowpeas
Present Situation
40.       Traditionally Nigeria has been self sufficient in cereals other than
wheat. Sorghum and millet are the most important staple grains; consumption
of maize as grain occurs mainly in the southern and western states, although
this crop is now beginning to receive wider attention, particularly in the
north. Data on food production and consumption are inadequate and at best
provide only general indications of trends. Recent food crop production
figures underline however the significant role of the northern States as
cereal producers. Examination of other information 1/ indicates an insig-
nificant trade in food grains, other than wheat.
1/   FAO Commodity Balance work sheets and Food Balance Sheet for 1968/69
computed for NADC.



ANNEX 12
Page 12
41.       The situation of apparent self sufficiency has recently changed into
one where shortages persist and are rather marked in some areas. Repeated
droughts and the effects of normal population changes have been compounded
by burgeoning urbanisation and income growth associated with economic recovery,
reconstruction and increased oil earnings. Consequently, food prices have
tended to increase steadily and in urban areas rose by 24% in 1970 and 21% in
1971. Some decline occurred in 1972 but the upward tendency returned in 1973.
Prior to recent sharp gains in world prices those in Nigeria were double US
farm prices for coarse grains, and three times world level for rice.
42.       The effect of long distances on distribution costs is increased by
bottlenecks in the transportation system; as a result the spread between im-
port and export parities (already exaggerated by a 40% import duty) is too
big to enable world conditions to have any significant effect on domestic
price formation. Furthermore, the fragmented nature of production and, to
a certain extent, demand, difficulties of communication combined with lack
of market intelligence, make it impossible to speak of a Nigerian market per
se. Instead there exists a mass of relatively small market areas which
appear to exert little or no influence upon those adjacent.
43.       Staple food marketing is almost exclusively confined to the private
sector although some official purchase, storage and distribution schemes are
run in efforts to relieve local shortages. A number of studies have concluded
that performance within the marketing system is rather efficient. This may
tend to mislead; while reported functional margins within study areas are low,
this cannot be taken as an indication of the efficiency of the system itself
in interpreting the needs of producers and consumers. Lack of cohesion between
market centers shows that it is the system which may be inadequate regardless
of any efficiency within it. While exploitive practices are probably being
curbed by competition in individual markets, there is no reason to suggest
that a similar conclusion may be drawn in any broader context. In fact the
reverse is likely to apply.
44.       Lack of communication between markets may be illustrated by comparison
of officially reported monthly prices for sorghum at Daudawa and Zaria in the
North Central State. These markets are about 80 kilometers apart and connected
by a full width tarmac road and a railway, yet over a period of 42 months (up
to July 1973), the price between them varied by as much as N 54.00 per ton.
During the period, Zaria prices were higher by an average of N 26.47 per ton
in 32 months and Daudawa prices higher by an average of N 30.00 in three months
(no prices were reported in one or other market for the remaining seven months).
Moreover, monthly price movements in the two markets were in opposite directions
in sixteen months. Prices within the markets varied substantially from month
to month with lowest prices not necessarily occurring around harvest. Stand-
ard deviation from monthly mean prices was 24.03 in Daudawa and 19.76 in Zaria.
A similar situation was obtained for millet (Table 7).



ANNEX 12
Page 13
45.       This erratic price behavior is indicative of the very thin markets
that are to be expected under present circumstances. Food grains have not
yet become an accepted cash crop, as such, and most grain storage takes place
at farm level. Sales are made to meet requirements not provided for by
'conventional' cash crops. Worthwhile market intelligence is unavailable and
price is extremely sensitive to slight changes in daily supply or demand. It
is not unknown for merchants to capitalise on this situation by attracting
supplies through paying high prices when offerings are limited, reducing them
sharply when the consequent increased supplies eventually reach the market.
This type of operation is assisted by the absence of adequate feeder roads
which effectively discourage most farmers from refusing a low price and taking
their grain back home. The overall picture is thus one of a rather passive,
inelastic and poorly informed system, in which market risks are taken more by
the farmer and consumer than by the merchant.
H. Future Developments, Markets and Prices
46.       As part of the policy of improving production and marketing and to
prevent a chronic supply deficiency situation from arising, FMG is developing
a scheme for the establishment of strategic grain storage and is encouraging
State food production farms; some form of price support program is also con-
templated. Details have not yet been announced (January 1974) but clearly
this could usher in a completely new phase in Nigerian agriculture. Overall
pricing policies would have to be most carefully developed to match new pro-
duction techniques and ensure that capacity is most beneficially utilized.
Although the introduction of price support could go some way to overcoming
the inherent inelasticity of the food grain market, massive 'official' pro-
duction could at the same time inhibit or retard small holder development.
In this context, and particularly in the light of expected incremental maize
production from the Funtua, Gombe and Gusau projects (117,000 tons), the
evolution of the feed and starch industries will provide an increasing
'spillway' for surplus food grain output.
47.       There are a number of projections for food demand and supply for
Nigeria of which "A Quantitive Analysis of Food Requirements, Supplies and
Demand in Nigeria 1968-1985" is the most recent. The study is among the most
comprehensive, but the quality of the basic data is such that quoted figures
should be regarded as providing only indicative value. Demand projections
have been based on the 1968/69 food balance sheet which in itself has a number
of shortcomings. Growth of population is estimated at 3% annually and that of
per capita income 4%. Income elasticity of demand for maize, sorghum and
millet is estimated at 0.4, with cowpeas at 0.3. Food supply has been pro-
jected on the assumption that past (estimated) rates of growth will be main-
tained. These rates, and estimates derived from them, carry the same degree
of reliance as the relative estimates in the sample survey; projected surplus/
deficits should be regarded as broad orders of magnitude only (Table 8).



ANNEX 12
Page 14
48.       Demand and supply for livestock feed have not been included in these
figures, nor has any provision been made for possible changes in diet (e.g. a
move away from sorghum to maize and/or wheat based products). About 45,000
tons of maize was fed commercially to livestock (mainly poultry) in 1971 and
the study aspects consumption increase fairly dramatically, reaching 106,000
tons in 1974, and over 375,000 tons in 1980. Demand has, however, proved to
be rather more price elastic than anticipated and total production has remained
rather static in the face of sharp increases in raw materials costs. Unless
there is a significant and sustained reduction of prices relative to incomes
it seems unlikely that total 1980 demand for grain for (commercial) feed would
reach 65% of previously anticipated requirements.
49.       Comparison between demand and supply projections nevertheless reveals
a deficit for all crops except cowpeas. The surplus shown for this crop is
somewhat questionable: data are extremely fragmentary but the persistent
price trend indicates a shortage situation for the preferred varieties.
Demand also appears more elastic than for the staple grains which should
encourage steady increase in production. Although the projected deficien-
cies are substantial it is important to differentiate between 'total demand'
and 'effective market demand' when considering likely price developments.
Allowance must be made for the fact that despite current high prices, market-
able production and effective market demand are probably only very slightly
out of balance, when expressed in percentage terms. Any rapid increase in
marketed production without the benefit of a support program, could have a
dramatic effect on prices.
Maize and Sorghum
50.       In the north, maize is not yet an entirely acceptable dietary sub-
stitute for either sorghum or millet. Research on this subject has been
markedly lacking, a most serious omission when the amount of production re-
search and development is considered. Limited subjective investigation re-
vealed marked differences of opinion and preference both as to the possible
part of maize in the diet and the most desirable color (white maize is pre-
ferred in the south). Being harder than sorghum, maize is unpopular to process,
both by hand and by machine. The customary diesel powered light plate type
provender mill is not very suitable for maize and typical milling charges show
a 30% premium is required. Conversely, development of surplus production will
be relatively gradual, manufacturers are likely to continue keen, if not always
easily accessible buyers, and any periods of general food grain shortage should
tend to hasten the acceptance of 'new' tastes, particularly in urban areas.
51.       Although import substitution is a convenient peg from which to hang
price formulation for food grains produced as cash crops, such a calculation
can only provide a broad indication. In fact, import parity may reasonably
be taken as a long term ceiling price for any significant quantities; however,
in the event of serious shortages it is unlikely that the consumer would be
penalized to the extent of the 40Z import duty now imposed.



ANNEX 12
Page 15
52.       Consideration has been given to the following factors in estimating
maize and sorghum prices:
(i) projected cost of imports;
(ii)  relative production costs (4:5 maize:sorghum);
(iii)  the maize production encouragement that should be generated
by t#e starch and feed industries;
(iv)  the established place of sorghum in the diet;
(v) relative inelasticity of market demand for food grains;
(vi)  probable field and storage losses that farmers would suffer
through dealing with grains on a far larger scale than pre-
viously. These are expected to be greater in the case of
maize, because of relatively larger production and longer
storage periods.
53.       The low value volume ratio of maize and sorghum compared to cotton
or groundnuts will tend to limit the radius within which profitable marketing
may occur, this could contribute to possible price instability. Because so
little information exists from which to determine probably ultimate centers
of market demand, an arbitrary 400 mile 'import' trunk haul to wholesale
market has been assumed. It has also been assumed that this market would be
served by local producers within a radius of 150 miles, first assembly being
carried out at a service center or equivalent. Prices are estimated as
follows (see Table 9):
(N per metric ton)
Maize       Sorghum
Economic                    76.00         74.00
Financial                   86.00         90.00
Cowpeas
54.       Owing to lack of data an arbitrary price has been taken in a known
major market center (Ibadan). This corresponds to the lowest post harvest
price for white cowpeas in recent years. Cowpeas are very susceptible to
pre and post harvest infestation, storage and fumigation procedures are in-
adequate at all levels so a 20% weight loss has been calculated. Prices
are estimated as follows (see Table 10):
(N per metric ton)
Economic                          99.00
Financial                         91.00



ANNEX 12
Page 16
55.       In all calculations inland transport has been assumed to be by road
at rates quoted by local firms. On trunk routes rates for big articulated
vehicles or truck/trailer combines are fairly competitive with the railway
which is still heavily congested.
Cotton
56.       The projected incremental production of 70,000 tons seed cotton
(130,000 bales lint) from the Gombe (39,000 bales), Funtua and Gusau projects
represents only 0.2 percent of expected world consumption in 1980 and, even
if all exported, would have practically no impact on likely world trade. A
comprehensive survey of the local textile industry is presently being carried
out; however, it is provisionally estimated that 1980 requirements will reach
400,000 bales lint or 210,000 tons seed cotton. Earlier demand projections,
as made by CSNRD, FAO and others over 1966-68 put probable 1980 demand at
680,000 bales.
57.       The local industry is emerging from a substantial shake out which
arose as a result of liberalization of imports in 1971, duties having now
been reimposed. 1/ Nevertheless, a number of factors adversely affecting
the originally anticipated rate of expansion still apply; these include:
(i) real income development combined with inflationary rise in
living costs has reduced the scope of textile demand. This
has been accentuated by the recent price rises in cotton
(and synthetic) products in line with world market changes;
(ii) the changing pattern of demand towards suiting materials,
generally synthetic based, in the emerging consumer generation;
(iii) the recent inability of the industry to satisfy the demand for
better cloths and textures;
(iv) competition from legal and illegal imports.
58.       Existing techniques do not permit the spinning of high counts from
present cotton varieties and this section of total demand would continue to
have to be met by imports for the foreseeable future. The projected decline
in world cotton prices will also increase the pressure of imports on local
industry. However, given recent performance in the face of factors already
mentioned, the provisional total demand of 400,000 bales in 1980 maybe some-
what conservative.
1/   Duties were removed in the 1971 budget in a successful attempt to curtail
profiteering by certain sections of the local industry. Official statis-
tics show that as a result, recorded 1971 imports reached the equivalent
of 9 months normal total supply.



ANNEX 12
Page 17
COTTON LINT DELIVERIES TO MILLS
Year                              Delivered (Bales)
1969                               139,512
1970                               188,434
1971                               227,284
1972                               170,300
1973 (up to 30 September)          226,413
Source: Cotton & Agricultural Processors Ltd.
59.       With incremental production from the three projects totalling
70,000 tons, maintenance of recent production growth rates elsewhere would
result in a total crop of about 190,000 tons seed cotton in 1980. This is
equivalent to 370,000 bales lint, about 30,000 bales below anticipated demand.
All incremental production from the project area would thus be effective im-
port substitution.
60.       Investment in the seed crushing industry 1/ demands a seed supply
of around 120,000 tons, or the equivalent of 200,000 tons seed cotton after
allowing for provision of planting seed. Most of the output of this industry,
however, would be confined to the export-market; although there would be some
freight savings, and possibly slightly better oil recoverv, the cottonseed
price as a factor in producer price calculations is unlikely to improve
above levels for direct exports.
61.       The local textile industry needs to be oriented towards world market
levels if substantial subsidy and, or, penal import levels are to be avoided.
Conversely, during the past two years when higher producer taxes were imposed,
'export parity' did not appear to provide sufficient inducement to farmers who
had a choice of cash crops. Consequently an extra charge of 2.5 K/kg lint had
to be made to spinners in order to permit producer prices to be raised to in-
centive levels. This charge has now fallen away as a consequence of the pres-
ent very high world prices. (1973/74 season producer prices are 13.2 K/kg and
11.0 K/kg for Grade I and II seed cottor. respectively.)
62.       It is not envisaged that competition from other crops would L
over the project period; indeed; such competition may well increase i arL
ularly from cereals. Estimated farmgate prices for seed cotton are as foi ows:
(see Table 11)
Financial           N 203.00 per 1,000 kg
Economic            N 268.00 per 1,000 kg
1/   A total of 370,000 tons dual purpose (groundnut and cottonseed) crushing
capacity exists or is in course of construction in 4 northern States.
Total seed crushing capacity is estimated at 950,000 tons.



ANNEX 12
Page 18
Groundnuts
63.       Projected incremental production in the project areas (about 27,000
tons) would be less than the anticipated decline elsewhere if the trend of the
last decade is maintained. Indeed, if production is to meet the capacity of
local crushing facilities some 300,000 tons of increased marketed output would
be required. This would necessitate an overall production growth rate in ex-
cess of 8% per annum. 1/
64.       Nigeria is the largest exporter of nuts and the third largest pro-
ducer (after India and China). Servicing the needs of the local crushing
industry would have a dramatic effect on world export availabilities of whole
nuts. This is not however expected to have a similar effect on prices; pro-
duct values are far more influenced by availability and prices of competing
sources of protein and oils, such as soya beans, sunflowerseed etc. Although
The trend for protein feed prices is slightly upward, that for oil is static
to declining. As a result, world prices for groundnuts are projected to de-
-line from recent levels. Since by far the greater part of the output of the
-ushing industry would be exported, farmgate prices are expected to follow
the world trend. Estimated farmgate prices are as follows: (see Table 12)
Financial           N 93.00 per 1,000 kg
Economic            N129.00 per 1,000 kg
7J Domestic consumption as food is currently estimated at about 250,000
tons, rising about 2.5% annually.



NTIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
-fl0ME-AGlRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT ]PROJEC
Cotton Seed Requirements - Year 51 -     M. tons
F UN TUAk                 GO0M BE                 G U SAU
Planted Area (1a)                 99,050       99,050      60,800   -     160,80    L9,5-00      49,500
Seed Required_4                    2,773        8,000       1,702        5.,000      1,386        4,000
Seed Cotton Production            59,712       59,712      36,840~    36,.840       22.,995      22,,995
Costs - N 1 ton
Delinting~                  16,V638        -         10,212         -          8,316         -
Dressin J/-                             56,000         -          35,000        -          28,000
Packaging 6                  7,924       8,000        4,,864       5,000       3,,960       4,,000
Distributin-15,848                      64,000        9,728      40,,000       7,920       32,000
Initial Value of SeedL'/  138,650      400,000       85,100     250,000       69,300      200,000
TOTAL                      179,060     528.,000     109,904     330,000       89,,496     264,000
Per Ton d~eed (N)         90.39       66.00        90.38       66.00        90.40        66.00
Per Ton  Seed Cotton(14>   3.00        8.84         2.99         8'.96       3.89        11.48
1/  I  =Acid delinted seed -        II =Fuzzy seed.
2/  I     Basis planting rate of 20 Kg delinted seed/ha, assuming 28 Kg undelinted seed required to
produce 20 Kg planting seed.
31        Estimated N6.00 per ton basic seed.
17     ~Cost ot' chemical N6.00 and operating K1.00 per ton of seed dressed
~/I     Estimated W4.00 per ton - II N1.00 per ton (average bag life 5 years)
6/     ~N8.00 per ton, national average.
7/     ~Basis cif' Europe value $137 (1973 constant terms) = N90 less ft. and fob charges N22 and
railage, storage, etc., say N18   N50 .00 M.ton exginnery.



ANNEX 12
Table 2
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotton Marketing Costs (N M/ton)
Basis: 180,000 M. ton crop - 42,000 bales
National average ginning outturn = 34.5% & 1%
1 ton seed cotton- 345 kg lint
645 kg seed
Primary                                       I
LBA Allowance                            11.32
Produce inspection                        0.29
Bags and twine                            3.06
Transport from markets                    4.92
Handling at Dumps                         1.28
Storage at Dumps                          0.29
Insurance                                 1.48
Finance                                   4.43
NSMB overheads                            4.92
Contingencies                             o.64
Total Primary Marketing                     32.63
Processing
Ginning and baling  1/                   11.18
Classification                            0.28
Handling and storage                      1.16
Total Processing                            12.62
Railage to Port                              7.45
Secondary
Harbour dues                              0.23
Lighterage                                0.88
Wharfage                                  0.30
Shorehandling                             0.78
Storage                                   0.79
Checkweighing                             0.05
Sundry                                    0.03
Sub-total                            3.06
Total to FOB                                55.76
NPMC Commission                           1.36
Insurance                                 o.58
Sundry CIF Expenses                       o.69
TOTAL to CIF less Freight                   58.39
LESS
Proceeds of sale of seed  2/             28.54
Costs per ton Seed Cotton                29.85
]/  Fees: N 7 per bale first 200,000 bales; N 4.33 per bale next 100,000 bales;
N 4.17 bale thereafter.  Classification fee N 50,000.
i/  Basis projected value ; 52.50 per 2,240 lbs.  cif US  (1974 constant terms)
M 51.64 exginnery.
Planting seed use assumed at average of 20 kg per 250 kg, all seed delinted
and sold at cost of delinting.
Value of seed/ton of seed cotton
= 0.565 x 51.64 - 0.08 x 8
= 29.18 - 0.64
= N 28.54



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotton Production
Ginning Capacity for Seed Cotton 1/
Projected Seed Cotton Production 3/
Project Area      Remaining Area              Lint Equivalent 2/          Surplus (Deficit)
Year                      m tons                             (Bales 181.4 kg)            Capacity in Bales
0              16,035                8S800                       45,200                      34,800
1              16,9148               8,900                       47,000                      33,000
2              18,226                9,000                       49,,500                     30s500
3              21,160                9,100                       55s000                      25,000
4              27,075                9,200                       66,ooo                      14,000
5              36,840                9,300                       83,900                      (3,900)
1/ Ginneries are situated at Gombe (5$,000 bale capacity) and Kumo (25,000 bale capacity).
2/ Assuming average ginning percentage 33.
3/ Basis - mean difference in estimated production between project and ginnery areal968-71 after allowing
diversion of equivalent of 15,000 bales to Biu ginnery (opened 1969). Maximum production in area
tributary to Gombe and Kumo achieved in 1969-70 = 80,000 bales (after adjustment as above).
D   ,,



A!'MEK 12
Table a
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Groundnut i4arketing Costs (k/m ton)
Primary
LBA allowance                                              9.35
Produce inspection                                         0.39
Bags, twine, etc.                                         5.97
Transport to depot                                         3.94
Handling at depot                                          0.69
Storage at depot                                           1.28
Insurance                                                  0.14
Finance                                                    2.95
NSMB overhead                                              2.h6
Contingencies                                              0.54
Total Primary Marketing                     27.71
Railage to port                                           15.93
Secondary
Harbour dues                                               0.67
Lighterage                                                 2.55
Wharfage                                                   0.88
Shorehandling                                              2.25
Storage                                                    0.29
Checkweighing                                              0.15
Sundry                                                     0.12
Sub-total                                   6.91
Total to fob                               50.55
NPMC commission                                            3.94
Insurance                                                  0.53
Sundry cif expenses                                        0.20
Total to ciW less freight                 55.27



ANNEX 12
Table 5
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM SERVICE CENTER: LAYOUT AND PRODUCE FLOW
_ _ _ _ _ _ _  Double Gate
I-                                           - _____________________________   3 _  _1_  
i                                                                    --t-3--1<~ ° LBA Buyer
AREA FOR                                         ' '                                                          To
FUTURE                                                                  C3LBA BuyerLAStrg
i                DEVELOPMENT                                              Store     2 1.   Q  LBA Buyer                         Areas
A               ~~~~~~~(11ha)
lKc_ J O LBA Buyer
I                                                                                       "1
.                                               __________X____________
Security Fence            +        Double Gate
Scale |   | = 10 meters)
Store: -                                                                                           Platform Scale
C        3pacity about 600 tons maize                                                    1     =  Service center store (see notes)
-±T 625 mi; 4m to eaves                                                                  2     =  Offices for supervision - Credit Staff
Roof to extend 3 meters                                                                  3     =  Plinth storage (each 1Om x 20m)
to provide covered area                                                                  4     =  Kerosene insecticide store
for fixed platform scale.                                                                -         Flow of statutory produce
Robertsridge or similar                                                                           Path of farmers
roof ventilation.
2 double (3m) doors - 1 at end -
1 at side. Concrete base, rat
guarded.
Offices:
Lean to on side of shed,
windows overlooking buying
points. Credit assistant
seated to look outwards,
llike bank teller)                                                                                                 World Bank-8222(3R)



ANN( 12
Table 6
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production of .Iaajor Food Crops 1969/70 and 1970/71
('000 m tons)
-------------Production-----------
Year                    Year
CroP                                      1969/1970  2/           1970/1971
Millet                                      3,070   /                3,106  y
Sorghum                                     4,093                     ,053 
I-aize                                      1.,255 i/1,443  5/
Beans                                         885  6/                  88   6/
Groundnut (in shell)                        1,292                    1,581
Rice                                          282                      280
Yam                                         9,777                   12,303
Cassava (old)                               4,219                    5,224
1/ Source 'Rural Economic Survey' RES/3/1972.
i~/ Excluding Bast Central State.
1969/70     1970/71
3/  Of which:  NES                       17.0%        19.0%
NWS                      28.0%        25.0%
NES                      27.0%        32.0%
Kano State               23.0%        15.6%
4/  Of which:  NCS                       31.0%        24.0%
NWS                      22.0%        23.0%
NES                      18.0%        24.0%
Kano State               20.0%        20.0%
i/  Of which:  NCS                        5.0%         5.0%
NWS                       3.0%         4.0%
NISS                     14.0%        144.0%
West State               53.0%        43.0%
Kwara State               7.0%         9.0%
i   Of which:  NCS                        9.0%         9.0%
NWS                      28.0%        29.0%
NES                      30.0%        30.0%
Kano State               21.0%        21.0%



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOABE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Millet-Sorghum Prices: Zaria-Daudawa
JAN    FEB    MARCH   APRIL   MAY    JUNE    JULY    AUG   SEPT   OCT   NOV   DEC
1970
Aillet         7aria              68      -       68      74       -      74       74      74     58    60    68    56
Daudawa            -       _       66      74       66     64       74      56     46    46    52    38
Sorghum.       Zaria              68      -       68      74       -       74      74      74     74    74    68    60
Daudawa            42      -       52      52       52     46       56     56      56    56    56    32
1971
lalillet       Zaria              60      67      68       64      62      74      84      84     66    56    84    84
Daudawa            46      -       -       64      144     -        76      76     40    44    56    52
Sorghum        Zaria              67       75     82       76      90      90      90      90     96    88    94    94
Daudawa            42      -       -      108      14)4    -        76      76     76    60    56    50
1972
'-illet        Zaria              84     104    102      102      112    112       90      68     44    90   112   112
Daudawa            60       78     78       78      78      74      70      58     58    72    -       78
Sorghum        Zaria              92     102    102       102     112    123       90      82     74    90    88   112
Daudawa            60      60      60       60      68      80      7L      68     72    78    -       66
1973
Ilillet        Zaria              94       94    125       89      -       179
Daudawa            68      68    1 08     101      134    184
Sorghum        Zaria             102      102    123       89      -      i68
Daudawa            82      8?      97      93      119    119
Standard Deviation L"ron .Ionthly ,lean   Sorghum:  Zaria  19.76      Daudawa    24.03
Millet:   Zaria  2h.h7       Daudawa    29.33
Source o' Data - Crop, Weather Reports
I"3 



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Supp1y and Deemand for Selected FoodBtutIs 1975 - 1985
('000 tons)
Year:                -         -----1975----------------                   ---        ---1980------------------                --------------1985----------- --
Population:          75,135,000                                           87,526,000                                           102,456,000
Surplus/                                               Surplus                                             Surplus/
Suoplv          Demand         (Deficit)             Supply           Demand          (Deficit)          Supply           Demand          (Deficit)
Maiz-e                                                                  982           1,034            (52)                1,106             1,200             (94)            1,245            1,423             (178)
Present rrowth Rate (% pa)                                                2.4
_______------- ------- 6 ----3.69----------
Mean Annual % increase in demand                                                                                                             ----------------------4------.418-----------------------------
Millet                                                               1,977            2,373           (396)                2,027             2,755            (728)            2,078            3,267           (1,189)
Present Crowth Rate                                                       0.5
--------------------  3.69 ---------------------------------
Mean Annual % increase in demand                                                                                                                                                4.__-___ -_-__ --------4.18----------------------------_
Sorghum                                                              2,923            3,710           (787)                2,879             4,308          (1,429)            2,836            5,108           (2,272)
Present Growth Rate                                                      -0.3
----------------------------- 3 .69     ---------   - -----------------------
Mean Annal & increase in demand                                                                                                             ------------------------------4.18----------------------------
Cowpeas                                                                 635           510              125                    838               574            264             1,105              660              445
Present Growth Rate                                                       5.7
---------__         --  - - 2.61-
Mean Annual X increase in demand                                                                                                                                                3.------------3.14--.-
Suggested Total Grain Shortfall                                                                     1,235                                                    2,251                                               3,639
(i.e. maize, millet, Guinea corn)
Source of Data   S.O. Olayide "A Quantitive Analysis of Food Requirements, Supplies and Demand in Nigeria 1968 - 1985".



ANNEX 12
Table 9
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELPMENT PROJECT
Maize and Sorghum - Estimated Producer Prices
(N/metric ton) 1
------Maize-----         ----Sorghum-----
Financial   Economic     Financial   Economic
fob US Gulf  /                         59.20      70090          52.60      63-00
Ft. insurance                           990        9.90           9.90       9.90
cif                                    69.10      80.80          62.50      72.90
Daty (40% of cif)                      27.60        -            25.00        -
Handling: port charges  /10.00                    1000 leOOO                10.00
106070      90.80         97.50       82e90
Inland transport  /                    20.00      15e00          20.00      15.00
Wholesale market value                126.70     105.80         117.50      97.90
Transport from Service Center           4 h000    _ 3.00          4oo        3.00
122.70     102.80        113.50       94.90
Local transport, 3torage,
cost of bags                          4.00       3.00           4.00       3.00
1-18.70     99.80        109.50       91.90
Margins                               lOoOO       lOoOO  10.00              1000
108.70      89.80         99.50       81.90
Storage losses 7/                      16,30      13.5o          10.00       8,20
"Ceiling" value                        92.4o      76,30          89.50      73.70
Production cost and "preference"
adjustment                            6o00        -              -           -
Estimated farmgate price (rounded)    86.00       76.00            0-0    .2  0_
1" Financial price basis N 1 = $ 1.52.  Economic price basis N 1 = $ 1.27.
2 Basis IBRD projected prices in 1974 constant terms, No. 2 US corn $ 90.00.,
sorghum $ 80.00 per metric ton.
i  Basis charter tonnage (12-15,000 tons) at US$ 15.00 per ton (3,000/1h,000 fio,~
Including bagging.
Average 400 miles at 5 kobo ton mile,
( Average 80 miles at 5 kobo ton mile.
/ 15% for maize, 10% for sorghum,
August 26, 1974



ANIM 12
Page 10
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOH4BE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT-PROJECT
Cowpeas - Estimated Producer Prices
(N/metric ton)
Financial           Economic
=arket value southern area                  165                165
Trawsport  1/                                23                 16
Value at first assembly                     142                149
Local transport                               4                  3
138                146
1?rgiTs, storage losses, 2/
bags, etc.                                 44
F,q rgate                                    91                 99
1/ Basis 4 kobo/ton mile.
2/ Losses in store are estimated at 2C% of market value.
Intermediary margins are estimated at 10.00.



A',\iEX .2
Table 11
4IGEY t:x
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOrMIBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEiT PROJECT
Seed Cotton - Economic and Producer Price Calculations  1/
(W/metric ton)
Financial           Economic
fob Apapa  2/                               681                 815
Export costs                                  45                 45
636                770
Ginning and baling                            37                 35
Lint at gins                                 599                735
5-eed cotton                                 207                254
Buying expenses                               33                 32
17L                222
Ad  vralue of seed                            29                 46
185                248
Pcoromic price                                -                 268
Producer price                               203
l/ Basis N 1 = $ 1.?7 and $ 1.52 respectively, 180,000 ton seed
cotton crop and improved marketing.
2/  Projected (IBRD) cif Europe price for Mexican SM 1-1/16" US$O 52 lb
197h constant terms. Less 5% quality differential to NAIB with
2.25 ft. and insurance i.e. USO 47.15 per lb.
Fi,sic Data from Table 2.
;-sgiist 26, 1974



AINNEX 1 2
Table 12
JORI'iIIEASTER.N STATE
GO.I*BE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEIfT PROJECT
Groundnuts - .'armgate Prices
(W/rnetric ton)
Fina.ncial  1/      Econoric  2/
u'ob Apapa  3/                               156                187
Export costs                                  E                  15
141                172
20                 Ii
121                157
Buying expenses  4/                           28                 28
Larket Price                                 93                129
Zarmgate price                                                  129
1/ Basis X 1 = % 1.52.
2'/ BJsis N 1 =$ 1.27.
3/  P3RD pro,ected 19;30 price cif Europe, constant 1971h terms $ 267.00
1 ess *Lt. and insurance $ 30   $ 237.
4_/ Oee Table 4 "or detailed breakdown.
August 26, 1974



ANNEX 13
Page 1
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Benefits
1.        The annual costs and returns used in calculating the economic rate
of return are shown in Table 1.
2.        The following assumptions and methods have been used:
(a) Project life is assumed as 25 years. Most project development
activities will be completed by project year 5 (1979), so a
salvage value is added to benefits in project years 6 and 7
to account for those houses and buildings no longer required
by the project and transferred to other Government agencies.
(b) Incremental production of crops and values of production are
shown in Table 2. The Bank Economic Analysis and Projections
Division's projections for 1980 have been used as the basis
for estimating import substitution and export prices. Details
of estimates are shown in Annex 12.
(c)  Incremental benefits accruingto investments from oxdrawn
equipment and tractors have been calculated (Schedules 1 and
2). The total benefits are offset against incremental labor
costs as shown in Table 3.
(d) Economic costs include adjustments for identifiable taxes,
and appropriate amendments to offshore costs to reflect a
shadow foreign exchange rate of US$ 1.27 per N 1.00.  Incremental
farm labor (Table 3) required by i.nproved cropping practices
has been estimated at the shadow price of N 0.40 per six-hour
day compared to the official minimum wage rate of N 0.6 for
the same working period. Economic costs do not include
project costs for water development, soil conservation, project
evaluation, and preparation of feasibilitv studies as benefits
from them are intangible and cannot be calculated with any
accuracy.
3.        Using the above assumptions the economic rate of return is 17%0.
A sensitivity analysis has been carried out on a number of variables, the
main comparison being between shadow rated and non shadow rated foreign ex-
change. In each instance two cost streams have been used, or, stream compris-
sing of project overhead costs, and the other variable from inputs. The result
of this analysis is shown below:



ANNEX 13
Page 2
Internal Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
-----Incremental costs-----    Incremental              Internal rate of return  Z
Overheads           Farm inputs /1       Benefits       Shadow FE         Actual FE
- ------Z  change                         -----           Rate              Rate
K                    K                   K              17                10
K                    K                -10                9                 -
K                    K                 -20               -                 -
K                  -10                -10               14                 8
K                  -20                -20               12                 5
K                  -30                -30                9                 2
K                  -40                 -40               6                 -
K                  -50                 -50               2                 -
+10                  +10                   K              10                  2
+20                  +20                   K               2                 -
+30                  +30                   K               -
K         constant
/1   Includes farm labor



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Returns
K' 000
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4       Year 5       Year 6      Year 7       Year 8       Year 9        Year 10        Years 11-25
Incremental Costs
Farm inputs: fertilizer                                61          356          942       1,901        3,013       3,013        3,013       3,013        3,013         3,013            3,013
other seasonal                            55         125          281         554          960          960         960          960          960           960              960
equipment                                42          126          305         477          687         188          188          188          188           188              188
Vehicles, plant and equipment ~J                      746          360         208          176           76          42          144           52           54          142                91
Houses, building, labor and materials               1 1,912        994         542           50          144        (320)        (106)          -            -             -
Salaries                                              637          859       1,027        1,016          921         769          685          655         625           625               625
Vehicle running operations j                          146          281          288         281          210          75           74           74           74            74               74
General services                                      253          257         277          298          270         250          242          239          239          239               239
Contingencies at 5%                                   193          168          194         238          314         249          260          259         258           262               260
Total                                     4,045       3,526        4,064        4,991       6,595        5,226        5,460       5,440        5,411         5,503            5,450
Less taxes V                                          310          217          172         124          102          72           72           64           62            68               65
Costs adjusted for taxes                            3,735        3,309        3,892       4,867        6,493       5,154        5,388        5,376       5,349         5,435            5,385
Add net labor costs                                    74          173          418         875        1,618       1,482        1,475        1,461        1,440        1,412             1,412
Total                                     3,809       3,482        4,310        5,742       8,111        6,636        6,863       6,837        6,789         6,847            6,797
Add adjustment for foreign exchange i                 328          295.         386         552          778          639         664          655          654           668              660
Net economic cost                                   4,137        3,777        4,696       6,294        8,889        7,275       7,527        7,492        7,443        7,515             7,457
Incremental Benefits
Farm produce 7/                                       308        1,030        2,610       5,502        9,693        9,693       9,693        9,693        9,693         9,693            9,693
Seed farm production                                   40           89          147         147          147          147         147          147          147           147              147
Total                                       348        1,119       2,757        5,649        9,840       9,840        9,840        9,840       9,840         9,840            9,840
Net cash flow                                       (3,789)     (2,658)      (1,939)        (645)        951        2,565       2,313        2,348        2,397         2,325            2,383
/ Does not include replacement for road maintenance equipment - see general services - excludes water and soil conservation costs.
/ Residual value of staff housing no longer required in years 6 and 7, also excludes material costs for water and soil conservation development.
F/ Excludes water and soil conservation costs.
Excluding farm inputs and their relevant contingencies.  Identifiable taxes on remainder approximately equals in Year 1 8%; Year 2 721; Year 3 7.0%; Year 4 6j%; and
thereafter 6%.
See Table 3.
B Shadow foreign exchange N 1= $ 1.27 (as against actual N 1= $ 1.52).
71 See Table 2.
August 27, 1974                                                                                                                                                                                1 
(D 



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Economic Benefits
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5           Years 6-25
Incremental Production
Cotton       (m tons)                      913            2,191            5,125           11,040           20,805            20,805
Sorghum      (m tons)                       _             1,260            3,780            5,880            8,400             8,4oo
Maize        (m tons)                       _             2,285            8,750           20,425           34,525            34,525
Groundnuts   (m tons)                       375           1,125            1,825            3,600            5,800             5,800
Cowpea       (m tons)                       155             310              564              930            1,240             1,240
Economic Value of Incremental
Production (!000)
Cotton       N 268/m ton                    245             587            1,374            2,959            5,576             5,576
Sorghum      N  74/m ton                    -                 93             280              435              622               622
Maize        N  76/m ton                    _                174             665            1,552            2,624             2,624
Groundnuts   N 129/m ton                     48             145              235              464              748               748
Cowpea       N  99/m ton                     15              31               56               92              123               123
Total                           308            1,030            2,610           5,502            9,693             9,693
August 27, 1974                                                                                                                        \ e



NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GONBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Net Economic Costs and Benefits due to Incremental Farm Labor and Farm Equipment
Mandays '000                                  Before Project          Year 1           Year 2          Year 3           Year 4           Year 5          Year 6
Cotton
Cat.   I 58 manday/ha                             2,923                2,944            2,845           2,564            2,219           1,670            1,670
Cat.  II 101 manday/ha                               71                  121              303             606            1,212            2,020           2,020
Cat. III 124 manday/ha                               48                    99             155             372              744            1,488           1,488
Sorghum
Cat.  I  85 manday/ha                             5,916                5,916            5,304           4,590            3,570            2,856           2,856
Cat. IT 101 manday/ha                               -                    -                455           1,061            1,818            2,424           2,424
Maize
Cat.   I 100 manday/ha                              375                   375             445             438              350              350             350
Cat.  II 118 manday/ha                              -                     -                89              531           1,151            1,859           1,859
Cat. III 137 manday/ha                                                                     27              69              274              507             507
Groundnuts
Cat.  I  90 manday/ha                               900                  900              833             689              468              324             324
Cat. II 132 manday/ha                                                      50             198              396             792            1,188           1,188
Cowpea
Cat.  I 65 manday/ha                                 65                    64              62               60              57               55               55
Cat. II 81 manday/ha                                _                      14              28               52              85              113             113
Total Mandays                         10,298                10,483           10,744          11,428           12,740           14,854          14,854
Incremental Mandays                                 -                     185             446            1,130           2,442            4,556            4,556
Value of Incremental Labor j N'000                                         74             178              452              977           1,822            1,822
Labor Saving due to Farm Equipment N'OOO
Oxdrawn equipment 4       q p                                                               5               27               81             162              270
Tractors and equipment 3/                                                                 -                  7               21              42               70
Total Savings                                                                     5               34             102              204              340
Net Labor Cost to Project                                                  74             173              418              875           1,618            1,482
/ @ N 0.4 per manday.
X See Schedule 1.N 53.9 per ox unit - allow one year slippage - benefits phased out by end of year 15.                                                               e
See Schedule 1.Minimum saving of N 1,400 per tractor/annum - allow one year slippage - benefits phased out in year 10.
March 7, 1974






ANNEX 13
Schedule 1
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
COMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPIlENT PROJFCT
Returns to Farmers using Work Oxen
1.        Work oxen are traditionally used in land preparation work in northern
Nigeria. At present insufficient and poor quality equipment limits the amount
of land preparation done by oxen.
2.        Farmers owning work oxen would be able, through the project to obtain
credit for the purchase of ox-drawn equipment, including a plow, a ridger, and
a cart.
3.        The one-ha budgets for all the major crops show a heavy utilization
of labor for land preparation. In the one-ha maize budget, cultivation costs
using hand-labor are estimated to be between N 30.40 and N 34.80 dependent
on crop yields. This cost represents between 456 and 522 hours per ha assuming
a labor cost of N 0.066 per man-hour.
Benefits
4.        The use of oxen would result in considerable savings in labor as
demonstrated below:
A. Ox Time per Operation using 2 ox-teams
Plowing                 30 hours/ha
Cultivating             10 hours/ha
Ridging                 15 hours/ha
Total              55 hours/ha
B.   Area of Cultivation achievable per ox-team per annum: 4 ha
C.   Costs per ox-team
Oxen upkeep             N 14.0 p.a.
Ox depreciation           20.0 p.a.
Subtotal     N 34.0
Cost per ha             N  8.5
Labor cost per ha:
- using 1 driver plus
1 laborer    N 11.0
Total cost per ha  N 19.5
Total cost per
using hand-labor N 33.0



ANNEX 13
Schedule 1
D.   Saving in cost:  At N 0.066/hour, this represents a
saving of 204 hours/ha
Total savings 4 ha - N 53.9



ANNEX 13
Schedule 2
NIGERIA
NORTH EASTERN STATE
GOMBE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Returns to Tractor Users
Tractors
1.        The Government operates a very uneconomic tractor hire unit within
the project area.
2.        Loans would be made available under the project to larger farmers
for tractors and equipment for use on their own farms and to individuals who
would provide contract tractor services.
3.        A farmer or contract tractor operator would be expected to provide
=0% of the total cost of a tractor unit.
4.        A tractor unit would include:  a 65hp tractor, a chisel plow, a
ridger, and a trailer. The total cost is estimated at N 6,000. The farmer
or contract tractor operator would provide N 1,800 in cash and a loan of
N 4,200 would be made available.
Tractor Benefits
5.        Savings in labor can be calculated as follows:  Estimated hours
of hand labor cultivation required on one ha of maize to achieve a yield of
3,000 kg = 500 hours. Estimated tractor hours required to prepare 1 ha land
for maize: Plowing 2.5 hours; Cultivating 2.75 hours; Ridging 1.25 hours;
Weeding 3.50 hours; total 10.00 hours.
Tractor costs are estimated as follows:
Actual Cost    Economic Cost
Fuel                               N 0.30/hour    N 0.10/hour
Driver                               0.20/hour       0.20/hour
Repairs                              1.00/hour       1.00/hour
N 1.50          N 1.30
Add:  Depreciation               N 1.00             -
Total hourly cost                N 2.50/hour    N 1.30
Total economic cost for land preparation for maize per ha - 10 x 1.3
- N 13.0
Saving shown by tractor ner ha = N 20.0
Minimum ha required to justify tractor = 70 ha
Annual minimum savings per tractor - N 1,400






To Duku                              To Nofrda        ---------
ZS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
Bo,',                                                                                                                                                Project Bojdory
To Bouc ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~prxmt Budre  fDeeomn   nt
1007 ' 7                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IO' 7-
, a               //~~~~~ W~~-  Ban9Un,lCK TB                                                             §Y                                         NIGERIA~~~~~~~~~D a 
A                                      -4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                        SedMlilcto   om   n   riigCne
Maimad,                             /                                                 1          1            0                              Eiin  BiTu    Roads STATE
,~~~~~~~~ .F <i.x;z0 .flii .TY . ......#/ ~/JKhnoGMEARCLUA
>- xk,j,,          IFnu                                                                                               MILESu                                                   Exiwa]\f  X- -    rPstin  Agricultural Tracs(oca uhoiyMinand
i  6   OKaduns   O GOMBE  $-   1lL   \  j                                                To Yolru                    *      Development Unfl Centers~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ToYol
_    xn(,,,                     )                                                        0        5    0       tO     20 25          30    35lsting Bitumen River                Bang
,xe                                                                                              l idn   .r    -  oLui  y  ILS~                                              To Be Constructed By State Ministry of Works During 197
CAMEROON  IFItKILOMETERS                                                                                                               -        RailwayTE
G,xrxe a         x          -                                                              1 lT4' 
'S.k-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.






IBRD 10486R
i a"                   \2-          14N
~CH'A D
J//\<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I G  Ft' R                              X
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ e                              SM.Idugu
\4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   0 RTi  Ta  H E A i     T - +       CAE ROO  N  hu
G10'/   /   F   O   F   C   S   /  N  0
DAHL                      D LOPMENTP
v 4; | CAMERNR                   Rice
E NT~AL  52a~--~-~     -~Rinen
NIGERIA ~ ~ ~ IGRI
TIMBER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BCEBR17



