CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1164 UNI
Loan Agreement
(Gombe Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1164 UNI
Loan Agreement
(Gombe Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1975, between FEDERAL REPUBLIC
OF NIGERIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out partly by the Borrower and partly
by the North-Eastern State of Nigeria (hereinafter called NES) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to NES
part of the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter, in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and NES;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02(i) is amended to read as follows: "Any event specified
in paragraph (e) or (f) of Section 7.01 shall have occurred."
(c)   the words ", the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Loan Agreement" wherever they occur in Sections 6.06, 9.01 and 9.03; and


﻿4
(d)   the following sub-paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
"20. the term 'Project Agreement' shall have the meaning set forth
in the Loan Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and NES
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NES pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "FCC" means the Federal Coordinating Committee to be established
pursuant to Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement;
(d)   "PMEU" means the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to be
established pursuant to Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement;
(e)   "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
GOPMU;
(f)   "beneficiary" means any farmer, group or association of farmers
receiving sub-loan under Part H of the Project;
(g)   "GOPMU" means the Gombe Project Management Unit to be
established pursuant to Section 2.02(a) of the Project Agreement and responsible
to the Ministry of Natural Resources of NES;
(h)   "Evaluation Section" means the Evaluation Section of PMEU;
(i)   "Licensed Buying Agent" means a person licensed by Northern States
Marketing Board to purchase cotton, groundnut and other crops from farmers
pursuant to Marketing Board Law, Chapter 70, Laws of Northern Nigeria, 1963;
(j)   "Gombe Local Authority" means the local administrative unit by that
description of the NES;


﻿5
(k)   "N" means the currency of the Borrower; and
(1)   "GOPEC" means the Gombe Project Executive Committee to be
established pursuant to Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-one million dollars ($21,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed under the Loan Agreement;
provided, however, that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal
shall be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which
is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured pursuant to the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be July 1, 1982 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight per cent
(8%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
January 15 and July 15 in each year.


﻿6
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.09. If and when the Bank shall from time to time request, the
Borrower shall execute and deliver Bonds representing the principal amount of
the Loan as provided in Article VIII of the General Conditions.
Section 2.10. The Federal Commissioner for Finance of the Borrower and
such other person or persons as he shall appoint in writing are designated as
authorized representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 8.10 of
the General Conditions.
Section 2.11. The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Finance, is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts I and J of the Project
through its Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall exercise every right and recourse
available to it to cause NES to perform, in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
NES to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend an amount in various currencies equivalent
to twenty million six hundred thousand dollars ($20,600,000) out of the proceeds
of the Loan to NES under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and NES, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Bank.


﻿7
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall not later than three months from the
Effectiveness Date establish and thereafter maintain a committee (FCC) with terms
of reference and membership satisfactory to the Bank, to review, from time to
time, the progress of the Project.
Section 3.03. In the carrying out of Parts I and J of the Project, the Borrower
shall (i) employ consultants and (ii) cause appropriate consultants to fill senior
positions in the Evaluation Section with persons, acceptable to the Bank upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part I of the
Project, the Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit comprising two sections. The Monitoring Section shall carry out
technical review of the Project and shall oversee financial records and statements
under the Project. The Evaluation Section established, with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, shall, with the assistance of consultants referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement, develop and operate a system for the analysis
and evaluation of policies relating to, and results achieved under, the Project.
Section 3.05. In the event the Borrower and NES shall propose to transfer
to any organization, entity or institution, existing or to be established, credit
operations under the Project, the Borrower shall consult with the Bank on such
transfer and arrangements therefor.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause the Evaluation Section to: (i) have
its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Borrower and the
Bank as soon as possible, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Borrower and the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Evaluation Section and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿8
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower and the Bank
that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the Loan or the Bonds
by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b)   To that end the Borrower (i) represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets as security for any external
debt, and (ii) undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any
such lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any agency of
the Borrower (including assets of the Central Bank of Nigeria, or of any other
institution performing the functions of a central bank of the Borrower) as security
for any external debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably, secure the
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and
the Bonds and that in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made
to that effect; and (iii) further undertakes that the Borrower will, within the limits
of its consitutional powers, make the foregoing undertaking effective with respect
to liens on assets of any of the Borrower's political subdivisions or of any agency
of any such political subdivisions, and to the extent that the Borrower is unable
within the limits of its constitutional powers to make such undertaking effective,
the Borrower will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c)   The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for payment of the purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in
the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(d)   As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets" means assets
of the Borrower or of any of its political subdivisions or of any agency of the
Borrower or of any such political subdivision, including the Central Bank of Nigeria
or any institution performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Bank shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower
and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party:


﻿9
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
performance by NES of its obligations under the Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and, in respect of the Project, the administration,
operations and financial condition of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Loan. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any
part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Bank shall promptly inform each other of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof, the
performance by either of them of its obligations under the Loan Agreement and
the performance by NES of its obligations under the Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Bank to visit any part of the territories of the
Borrower for purposes related to the Loan.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan
and the Bonds shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories; provided,
however, that the foregoing shall not apply to taxation of payments under any
Bond to a holder thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is beneficially
owned by an individual or corporate resident of the Borrower.


﻿10
Section 6.02. The Loan Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Bonds
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery
or registration thereof imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories and the Borrower shall bear the cost of any such taxes, if any,
imposed under the laws of the country or countries in whose currency the Loan
and the Bonds are payable or laws in effect in the territories of such country
or countries.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls
and moratoria of any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Bank, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal
of the Loan and of all the Bonds then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately together with the interest and other charges thereon and upon any
such declaration such principal, interest and charges shall become due and payable
immediately, anything to the contrary in the Loan Agreement or in the Bonds
notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   NES shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(b)   NES shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
Any of the events specified in Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower and NES.


﻿11
ARTICLE VHI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 11.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)  The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
NES have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)  The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and NES, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)  NES has established with adequate funds the bank account referred
to in Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement.
(d)   NES has established GOPMU in accordance with Section 2.02(a) of
the Project Agreement.
(e)  The Project Manager, Chief Administrative Officer, Chief Accountant,
Chief Engineer and Chief Technical Officer have been employed in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.02(b)(ii) of the Project Agreement.
(f)  NES has established GOPEC in accordance with Section 2.09 of the
Project Agreement.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 11.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, NES, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of NES in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and NES,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
NES in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date January 27, 1976 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 11.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿12
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Federal Commissioner for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 10.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
The Permanent Secretary
Federal Ministry of Finance
P.M.B. 12591
Mosaic House, Tinubu Square
Lagos, Nigeria
Cable address:
PERMFIN
Lagos
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿13
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
By   /s/ 0. Emmanuel Obe
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / E. Peter Wright
Director, Country Programs Department
Western Africa Regional Office


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
I.    Vehicles, heavy                 2,100,000           100% of foreign
plant and equip-                                    expenditures or
ment                                                if procured lo-
cally 75% of to-
tal expenditures
II.   Tractors, agri-                 4,100,000           100% of foreign
cultural tools                                      expenditures or
and equipment,                                      if procured lo-
ox-drawn equip-                                     cally 71% of to-
ment and farm-                                      tal expenditures
inputs such as
spraying mach-
ines, fertil-
izers, insecti-
cides, battery
sets and seeds
to be financed
under sub-loans
III.  Salary and allow-
ances for GOPMU:
(a)   specialists,               1,5pp r,0          100% of total
management and                                expenditures
technical staff
(b)   staff recruited            3,200,000          60% of total
locally                                       expenditures


﻿15
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
IV.   Buildings, houses,             3,700,000           60% of total
furnishings and                                    expenditures
material and la-
bor for Parts A
through F of the
Project
V.    Field evaluation                 500,000           60% of total
units of GOPMU                                     expenditures
VI.   Technical                        300,000           100% of total
Services                                           expenditures
VII. Unallocated                     5,600,000
TOTAL         21,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures, and expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category 111(a) on account of expenditures
incurred after July 25, 1974, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $150,000; and


﻿16
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Loan will be
withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set forth in the
second column of the taole in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Loan then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Bank by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Loan;
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Bank, at the request of the
Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Loan, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Bank, in
respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)  if the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan
as in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
5.   Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I, II,
111(b), IV or V shall increase and no proceeds of the Loan are available for
reallocation to such Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust
the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to be carried out in parts of the Tangale Wa.ja and Gombe
Local Authority areas in the Gombe Division of Bauchi Province of the
North-Eastern State of Nigeria. The Project consists of:
A.    Construction of about 1,000 km of agricultural roads.
B.    Construction of about 85 small and medium size earth dams each with a
minimum capacity of 100,000 m3 and development of about 160 tapkis
(ponds) for distribution of water to livestock.
C.    The carrying out of soil conservation through construction of cut off ditches,
artificial waterways, contour ridging in the area of dams and marker ridging
for purposes of contour realignment of crop ridges.
D.    Construction of about 260 houses, stores, offices and about 50 farm service
centers each with about 500 ton capacity warehouse and other facilities.
E.    Establishment and development of two seed multiplication farms at Kumo
and Tumu through construction of farm buildings, provision of water
supplies, farm machinery and equipment.
F.    Provision of training facilities through expansion of boarding accommodation
at Tumu training centre to 40 places and construction of training centre
with capacity of 40 places at Kumo.
G.    Provision of extension services for inter alia, livestock husbandry, seed
multiplication, commercial farm management, farmer training, operation and
maintenance of farm machinery and equipment, including tractor, credit and
marketing services.
H.    Long-term and short-term loans to farmers for farm inputs such as fertilizer,
seeds, insecticides, sprayers and equipment including ox carts, ox plows,
tractors and associated implements.
I.    Establishment and operation of a Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
at Kaduna to provide the Borrower, NES and other Project agencies with


﻿18
relevant economic and other data on the Project, including data on the results
achieved by the Project relating to social and economic development in the
Project Area.
J.    Feasibility studies for similar agricultural development in NES and other
States and preparation of projects therefor.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                               (expressed in dollars)*
January 15, 1980                                       375,000
July 15, 1980                                          390,000
January 15, 1981                                       405,000
July 15, 1981                                          420,000
January 15, 1982                                       440,000
July 15, 1982                                          455,000
January 15, 1983                                       475,000
July 15, 1983                                          495,000
January 15, 1984                                       510,000
July 15, 1984                                          535,000
January 15, 1985                                       555,000
July 15, 1985                                          575,000
January 15, 1986                                       600,000
July 15, 1986                                          625,000
January 15, 1987                                       650,000
July 15, 1987                                          675,000
January 15, 1988                                       700,000
July 15, 1988                                          730,000
January 15, 1989                                       760,000
July 15, 1989                                          790,000
January 15, 1990                                       820,000
July 15, 1990                                          855,000
January 15, 1991                                       885,000
July 15, 1991                                          925,000
January 15, 1992                                       960,000
July 15, 1992                                         1,000,000
January 15, 1993                                      1,040,000
July 15, 1993                                         1,080,000
January 15, 1994                                      1,125,000
July 15, 1994                                         1,150,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿20
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions or on the redemption
of any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section 8.15 of the General
Conditions:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption                Premium
Not more than three years                         1-1/4%
before maturity
More than three years                                 2%
but not more than
six years before
maturity
More than six years but                           3-3/4%
not more than eleven
years before maturity
More than eleven years but                        5-3/4%
not more than sixteen
years before maturity
More than sixteen years but                           7%
not more than eighteen
years before maturity
More than eighteen years                              8%
before maturity


