LOAN NUMBER 2026 MAI
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               ,1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2026 MAT
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1981, between
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (herein fter called the Borrower) and THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower is undertaking a comprehensive
economic program for short-term stabilization, the medium-term
ajustment and long-term development of its economy;
(B) the Bank has received a letter dated
1981 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve a structural adjustment of the
Borrower's economy, declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of that program, and requesting assistance from the Bank
in the financing of urgent imports to be made during the execution
of such program; and
(C) on the basis of the above representations the Bank has
decided in support of such program to provide assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
NOW TFEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agrees as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
Section 2.01. No. 11 shall read:
The term Project means the imports and other
activities that may be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement, the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Reserve Bank of Malawi" means the Central Bank of
the Borrower operating pursuant to an Act to provide for the
establishment of the Reserve Bank of Malawi, (1964) Cap.
No. 44:02, of the Laws of Malawi, as said Act may be amended
from time to time;
(b) "Project Account" means the account to be established
in the Reserve Bank of Malawi pursuant to Section 3.01 of this
Agreement;
(c) "MK" and "Malawi Kwacha" mean the currency of the
Borrower; and
(d) "BTN" means the Brussels Tariff Nomenclature Code aimed
at the international unification of the classification of goods
for customs purposes.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty-five million dollars ($45,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of imported goods included in such
Schedule.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for goods costing more than three million dollars
($3,000,000) equivalent to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be procured on the basis of procedures that include


﻿-3-
broad international tendering among suppliers from the Bank's
member countries, Switzerland and Taiwan and by contract award to
the lowest evaluated responsive bidder. Before requesting a
withdrawal of proceeds of the Loan on account of any such con-
tract, the Borrower shall cause the Bank to be furnished with a
brief report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on
the procedures followed in procuring such contract. If the Bank
shall have reasonably determined that the procedures followed in
procuring such contract are inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in this Section, no expenditures under such
contract shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
The Bank shall promptly inform the Borrower of, and state the
reasons for, any such determination.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the Amortization Schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Reserve Bank of Malawi is designated as
the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions; and
(b) without limitation or restriction to the foregoing,
the Borrower shall entrust the Reserve Bank of Malawi with
responsibility for the coordination and collection of relevant
documentation and the preparation of withdrawal applications,
under the Loan, which withdrawal applications shall, to the extent


﻿-4-
practicable, be consolidated so as to provide for withdrawal of
at least ten thousand dollars ($10,000) equivalent. Each such
withdrawal application shall include evidence satisfactory to the
Bank in respect of the goods for which financing is requested
under such application.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall open an account (the
Project Account) at the Reserve Bank of Malawi and shall, upon
each withdrawal from the Loan Account, deposit in said Account in
accordance with its usual financial procedures the equivalent in
MK of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account
(such equivalent to be determined as of the respective date of
such withdrawal). The amounts so deposited in the Project Account
shall be used exclusively to finance capital and recurrent expen-
ditures included in the Borrower's public sector investment
program; and
(b) the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, by October 31,
1981 or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank may agree,
all such information as the Bank shall request concerning the
utilization of the amounts deposited in the Project Account.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) promptly upon receipt of appropriate applications
from potential importers determine whether such applications are
eligible for financing under the terms of this Loan;
(b) make available, or cause to be made available, to the
eligible importers promptly as needed, such amounts of foreign
exchange as shall be required to import goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan; and
(c) take all such action as shall be necessary or convenient
to facilitate the timely importation of goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 3.03. In order to process foreign exchange applica-
tions in accordance with Section 3.02 hereof, the Borrower shall:


﻿-5-
(a) ensure that the Exchange Control Department of the
Reserve Bank of Malawi is adequately staffed; and
(b) make such other arrangements, acceptable to the Bank, so
as to assure that public and private importers alike shall have
adequate assistance in preparing tender documents.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall furnish the Bank, by
March 31, 1982, with a detailed, updated public investment
program covering the succeeding three fiscal years and shall
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon.
Section 3.05. The Borrower undertakes to increase the
producer price of cotton to a level acceptable to the Bank not
later than September 1, 1981.
Section 3.06. The Borrower undertakes that adequate provi-
sion shall be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.07. Upon the award of any contract for goods
costing more than one million dollars ($1,000,000) equivalent to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish
a description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to
whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
Section 3.08. The Borrower and the Bank shall, no later
than October 31, 1981, review the progress achieved in carrying
out the program referred to in paragraph (A) of the Preamble to
this Agreement. For purposes of such reviews, the Borrower and the
Bank shall focus, in particular, on the measures specified in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.09. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign. exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external


﻿-6-
debt which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect, provided, however, that, if, for any constitu-
tional or other legal reason, such provision cannot be made with
respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political or
administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) the foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date; and
(c) as used in this Section, the term "Public Assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure that records
shall be kept to register all expenditures financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with sound accounting practices
consistently applied.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that an event has occurred which
shall make it improbable that the program or a significant part of
the program referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement will be
carried out.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The dateS d\AAJb#A, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3
Malawi
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINANCE
Lilongwe                             4407
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The goods that may be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be those imported goods included in BTN Sections I, II,
III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, XIII, XV, XVI, XVII, and
XVIII and for which "E" Forms have been returned to the Reserve
Bank of Malawi with the exception of the following goods:
BTN CODE                         DESCRIPTION OF ITEMS
Products of the Chemical
Section VI                   and Allied Industries
33.06                    Perfumes, cosmetics and toilet
preparations
36.02                    Explosives
36.03                    Mining, blasting and safety fuses
36.04                    Percussion caps
36.05                    Pyrotechnic articles
36.07                    Pyrophoric alloys
36.08                    Combustible preparations
Base Metals and Articles
Section XV                      of Base Metals
83.06                    Ornaments of base metal
83.10                    Beads and spangles of base metal
83.11                    Bells, gongs
83.12                    Mirrors and picture frames of base
metal
Machinery and Mechanical
Appliances, Electrical
Section XVI                         Equipment
84.12                    Machines for airconditioning
84.19.01                 Domestic dishwashers
84.20.00                 Domestic weighing machines
84.40.01                 Domestic washing and ironing
machines
85.12                    Domestic water heaters, ovens
and other appliances
85.17                    Bells, domestic alarms


﻿- 10 -
BTN CODE                        DESCRIPTION OF ITEMS
Vehicles, Aircraft and Parts
thereof, Vessels and Associated
Section XVII                    Transport Equipment
87.08                   Armored fighting vehicles
88.00                   Aircraft and parts thereof
89.00                   Vessels
89.01                   Pneumatic craft and appliances
for sports
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods and services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower;
(b) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in the aggregate
amount not exceeding four million five hundred thousand
dollars ($4,500,000) equivalent may be made on account
of payments made for eligible imports before that date
but after April 15, 1981; and
(d) expenditures for goods to be supplied under a contract
which another official export financing institution or
any international development institution shall have
financed or agreed to finance.
3.   No withdrawals shall be made and no commitments shall
be entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in
respect of expenditures to be financed under this agreement after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and the amount of commitments entered into by the Bank
upon the Borrower's request in respect of expenditures to be
financed out of the Loan shall have reached the amount of
twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000) equivalent unless the
Bank shall have been satisfied with the progress achieved by the


﻿- 11 -
Borrower in the carrying out of the economic program and the
measures referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement and in
particular of the events described in Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 1986
through   June 15, 2001                    1,500,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 13 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
before maturity                                  2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  5.30%
More than eleven year but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                  7.70%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                  8.65%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                  9.60%


﻿-14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Review
In their review by October 31, 1981 of the progress achieved
by the Borrower in the carying out of the economic program and the
measures referred to in paragraph- (A) of the Freamble to this
Agreement, the Borrower and the Bank shall focus in particular
on:
(i) the Borrower's crop pricing decisions for the 1981/1982
growing season, made on the basis of methodology agreed
with the Bank;
(ii) the supplementary appropriation to agriculture of
Malawi Kwacha two million eight hundred thousand
(MK 2,800,000), implemented to correct underfunding of
recurrent activities in fiscal year 1981/82;
(iii) the Borrower's proposals with regard to strengthening
of its institutional capacity to monitor, record and
manage public and government guaranteed private debt;
(iv) the establishment by the Borrower of a target range for
a future public debt service ratio;
(v) the Investment Coordinating Committee's application of
generally accepted principles of project analysis in
screening major public and private investments in Malawi
to ensure that they are economically justified;
(vi) the increase in Blantyre Water Board tariffs to a level
acceptable to the Bank;
(vii) the updated budget, balance of payments and national
accounts' projections; and
(viii) the Borrower's proposed measures for the improvement of
the financial and management aspects of enterprises in
the public and private sectors central to the structural
adjustment process.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  aeFday of pEC 198R
FOR SECRETARY


