CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 742 CO
Subsidiary
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Development Finance Companies Project)
BETWEEN
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
AND
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE CALDAS
DATED MAY 28, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 742 CO
Subsidiary
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Development Finance Companies Project)
BETWEEN
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
AND
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE CALDAS
DATED MAY 28, 1971


﻿fthsOiiaryj TE'vn Aqgrument
AGREEMENT, dated May 28, 1971, between BANCO DE
LA REPUBLICA (hereinafter called the Banco) and CoRroRA-
CION FINANCIERA DE CALDAS (hereinafter called the Finan-
ciera).
WHEREAS by a loan agreement of even date herewith
(hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) between the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development (here-
inafter called the Bank) and the Banco, the Bank agreed
to make available to the Banco a loan of an amount in
various currencies equivalent to forty million dollars
($40,000,000) (hereinafter called the Loan) on the terms
and conditions set forth therein;
WHEREAS under the terms of said Loan Agreement, the
Banco has agreed to relend to the Financiera, through the
Fondo para Inversiones Privadas of the Banco (hereinafter
called FIP), part of the proceeds of the Loan under a sub-
sidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank, containing,
without limitation, the provisions described in Section 4.03
of the Loan Agreement;
WHEREAS the parties hereto have agreed to enter into this
Agreement, which is one of the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments referred to in Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context shall otherwise require, the several terms de-
fined in the Loan Agreement shall have the respective mean-


﻿4
ings therein set forth and the term "Subsidiary Loan"
means the loan provided for under Section 2.01 of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Subsidiary Loan
SECTION 2.01. The Banco agrees to relend to the Finan-
ciera, through FIP, such amounts in various currencies out
of the proceeds of the Loan as shall be allocated from time
to time by the Bank to the Financiera, pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.02 of the Loan Agreement, on such terms and con-
ditions as are set forth or referred to in this Agreement.
SECTION 2.02. (a) Upon request of the Financiera, the
Banco shall forthwith (i) request the Bank to approve any
Investment Project in accordance with Section 2.03(a) of
the Loan Agreement; (ii) make application for withdrawal
from the Loan Account of amounts which the Banco is
entitled to withdraw therefrom in accordance with Sec-
tion 2.02 of the Loan Agreement for Investment Projects
financed by the Financiera; and (iii) pay to, or on the
order of, the Financiera the amounts so withdrawn; pro-
vided, however, that if the Banco shall determine, after
taking into account the economic policies of the Guarantor,
that any Investment Project, in respect of which a request
for the Bank's approval is received from a Financiera,
shall not make a significant contribution to the economic
development of Colombia, the Banco may, by notice to the
Bank and the Financiera setting forth the reasons for such
determination, refuse to submit such request for approval
and the corresponding application for withdrawal.
(b) The Financiera shall furnish to the Banco the finan-
cial plan proposed for each Investment Project and such
documents and other evidence as are provided in para-
graph (a) of Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement.


﻿5
SECTION 2.03. The Banco shall open a Subsidiary Loan
Account on its books in the name of the Financiera and
shall credit to it the amount of the Subsidiary Loan. Any
amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be deemed to be with-
drawn from the Subsidiary Loan Account simultaneously
with each withdrawal by the Banco from the Loan Account
in accordance with Section 2.02 of this Agreement, and in
the same amounts and currencies of such withdrawal.
SECTION 2.04. The several portions of the principal
amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn from the Sub-
sidiary Loan Account shall be repaid by the Financiera to
the Banco in Pesos, in amounts equivalent to the amounts
withdrawn by the Banco from the Loan Account for the
account of the Financiera. The amounts in Pesos to be so
repaid by the Financiera shall be determined, for each
such portion of the Subsidiary Loan, by agreement between
the Banco and the Financiera at the time of the respective
withdrawal from the Subsidiary Loan Account, to be either:
(a) the Peso equivalent of the amounts so withdrawn
determined as of the respective date of each withdrawal; or
(b) the Peso equivalent of the amounts so withdrawn
determined as of the respective dates of repayment;
provided, however, that the choice between paragraph (a)
or paragraph (b) shall be determined by such choice as
shall have been made by the Investment Enterprise, at the
time the sub-loan or investment was made, in respect of
such amount of the Subsidiary Loan as shall have been
lent to, or invested in, the Investment Enterprise by the
Financiera.
SECTION 2.05. The Financiera shall pay to the Banco
interest in Pesos in the following manner:
(a) On portions of the Subsidiary Loan repayable in
accordance with Section 2.04(a) of this Agreement, interest
shall be paid at an annual rate to be determined from time


﻿6
to time by the Banco but not exceeding a rate of interest
equal to: (i) eight percentage points (or such other number
of percentage points as shall be agreed between the Bank
and the Banco, with the approval of the Guarantor) above
the rate of interest payable by the Banco to the Bank; plus
(ii) one-half of one percentage point, to cover the admin-
istrative costs of the Banco; and
(b) On portions of the Subsidiary Loan repayable in
accordance with Section 2.04(b) of this Agreement, interest
shall be paid at an annual rate equal to: (i) the rate of
interest payable by the Banco to the Bank; plus (ii) one-
half of one percentage point, to cover the administrative
costs of the Banco.
(c) Interest on each such portion of the Subsidiary Loan
shall: (i) be calculated on the principal amount of the Sub-
sidiary Loan outstanding at each interest payment date,
provided, however, that whenever such principal amount
shall be repayable in accordance with Section 2.04(b) of
this Agreement, the Peso equivalent of each such portion
of the Subsidiary Loan shall be determined as of the date
of the interest payment to be made; (ii) accrue from the
respective dates on which each such portion shall have been
withdrawr ; and (iii) be computed on the basis of a 360-day
year of twelve 30-day months.
SECTION 2.06. (a) The Financiera shall pay in Pesos to
the Banco a commitment charge, equivalent to the aggre-
gate of (i) the amount of the commitment charge payable
by the Banco to the Bank, pursuant to Section 2.05 of the
Loan Agreement, corresponding to the portion of the Loan
allocated to the Financiera under Section 3.02 (a) (i) of the
Loan Agreement, plus (ii) one-fifth of the amount of such
commitment charge corresponding to any portion of the
Loan not so allocated, subject to such adjustments as the
Banco shall from time to time reasonably determine as any
such portion of the Loan not so allocated is allocated to any
of the Financieras.


﻿7
(b) At the written request of the Financiera, the Banco
shall forthwith request the Bank to enter into special com-
mitments in respect of the cost of imported goods required
to carry out any Investment Project approved by the Bank.
Such special commitments shall be upon such terms as shall
be agreed upon between the Bank and the Banco, as pro-
vided in the Loan Agreement, and the Financiera shall pay
to the Banco the equivalent in Pesos of the amount of such
commitment charge payable by the Banco to the Bank pur-
suant to Section 3.02 of the General Conditions, such equiv-
alent to be determined as of the respective dates on which
such commitment charge is so payable.
SECTION 2.07. (a) The Financiera shall repay the prin-
cipal amount of each portion of the Subsidiary Loan with-
drawn from the Subsidiary Loan Account in accordance
with the amortization schedule applicable to the Investment
Project for which such portion shall have been withdrawn,
as approved by the Bank pursuant to Section 2.03(a) (ii) of
the Loan Agreement. Any such amortization schedule shall
provide for full repayment of funds lent or invested by the
Financiera for any such Investment Project in approxi-
mately equal semi-annual installments, payable on April
15 and October 15 in each year and shall conform to the
provisions of Section 2.08(b) of the Loan Agreement.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Section, if
an Investment Enterprise shall repay in advance of matu-
rity all or any portion of the principal amount of any sub-
loan, or if the Financiera shall sell, transfer, assign or
otherwise dispose of for value of a sub-loan or an invest-
ment or any part thereof the Financiera shall repay to the
Banco on the next following interest payment date an
amount of the Subsidiary Loan equivalent to the amount
withdrawn from the Subsidiary Loan Account in respect
of such sub-loan or investment or part thereof and cor-
responding to the principal amount of the Loan to be repaid
by the Banco to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.09 of the
Loan Agreement.


﻿8
SECTION 2.08. Interest and commitment charges shall be
payable by the Financiera to the Banco semi-annually on
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.09. Except as the Banco and the Financiera
shall otherwise agree, the Financiera may repay in advance
of maturity at par all or part of the principal amount of
the Subsidiary Loan and any such repayment shall be
applied to the several maturities thereof in inverse chrono-
logical order.
SECTION 2.10. Whenever it shall be necessary for the
purposes of this Agreement (except Section 4.07 thereof)
to determine the value in terms of Pesos of any foreign
currency, such value shall be as determined by the Bank
from time to time.
SECTION 2.11. If the Banco shall have paid any taxes
pursuant to Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement, the Finan-
ciera shall reimburse the Banco an amount equivalent to
one-fifth of any such taxes.
ARTICLE III
The Project; Use of Proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan
SECTION 3.01. This Subsidiary Loan is granted by the
Banco to the Financiera exclusively for the financing of
the Project described in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agree-
ment and the Financiera shall apply the proceeds thereof
exclusively to carry out the Investment Projects for which
they were withdrawn and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of this Agree-
ment.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants of the Financiera
SECTION 4.01. The Financiera shall carry out the Project
and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with


﻿9
sound financial and investment standards and practices,
under the supervision of qualified and experienced manage-
ment, and in accordance with its Estatutos, its Statement
of Operating Policies and Procedures and the policy guide-
lines referred to in Section 6.01 (h) of this Agreement.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Financiera shall exercise its
rights in relation to each of its Investment Projects financed
in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Loan in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Bank, the Banco
and the Financiera.
(b) The Financiera undertakes that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be
made on terms whereby the Financiera shall obtain, by
written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by
other appropriate legal means, adequate rights protecting
the interests of the Bank, the Banco and the Financiera,
enabling the Banco to carry out its obligations under the
Loan Agreement, and including, without limitation, in the
case of any such sub-loan and, to the extent that it shall
be appropriate, in the case of any such investment, the
right to:
(i) cause such Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the respective Investment Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, managerTl and financial standards,
including the maintenance of adequate records and
documents;
(ii) cause such Investment Enterprise to use the pro-
ceeds of the Loan exclusively to finance the goods
and services required to carry out the Investment
Project in respect of which such proceeds were
withdrawn and ensure that such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of
such Investment Project;
(iii) ensure the Bank's and the Financiera's rights to
inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants and


﻿10
construction included in such Investment Project,
the operation thereof and any relevant records and
documents;
(iv) require that such Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with sound business practice
and that, without any limitation upon the foregoing,
such insurance shall cover marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery of the goods financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation,
and that any indemnity thereunder shall be payable
in a currency freely usable by such Investment
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(v) obtain all such information as the Bank, the Banco
and the Financiera shall reasonably request relat-
ing to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of such Invest-
ment Enterprise;
(vi) establish and amend the amortization schedule ap-
plicable to the respective sub-loan or investment in
accordance with Section 2.07 of this Agreement; and
(vii) suspend or terminate further access by such Invest-
ment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to
carry out the terms of such sub-loan or investment.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Financiera shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprises and the
Investment Projects that it finances and the administra-
tion, operation and financial condition of the Financiera.
(b) The Financiera shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project and of each Investment


﻿11
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accord-
ance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the operations and financial condition of the Finan-
ciera. The Financiera shall enable the Bank's representa-
tives to examine such records.
(c) The Financiera shall have its financial statements
(balance sheet, statement of earnings and expenses and
other related statements) certified annually by an inde-
pendent accounting firm acceptable to the Bank, in accord-
ance with generally accepted accounting principles con-
sistently applied and, promptly after their preparation
but not later than four months after the close of the fiscal
year to which they apply, shall transmit to the Bank certi-
fied copies of such statements and a signed copy of the
accounting firm's report.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Financiera shall cooperate fully
with the Bank to assure that the purposes of the Loan will
be accomplished. To that end, the Financiera shall from
time to time, at the request of the Bank exchange views
with the Bank through their representatives with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance by the
Financiera of its obligations under this Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition of the
Financiera and any other matters relating to the purposes
of the Loan.
(b) The Financiera shall promptly inform the Banco
and the Bank of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the pur-
poses of the Loan, the maintenance of the service of the
Subsidiary Loan or the performance by the Financiera of
its other obligations under this Agreement.
SECTION 4.05. The Financiera shall consult the Bank
concerning any proposed amendment of its Estatutos, its
Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures and the
policy guidelines referred to in Section 6.01(h) of this


﻿12
Agreement, and shall not, without the prior approval of
the Bank, amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof.
SECTION 4.06. Without limitation on the obligation of
the Financiera set forth in Section 2.07 (b) of this Agree-
ment, if the Financiera shall sell, lease, transfer, mortgage
or otherwise dispose of or encumber its property or assets
except in the ordinary course of its operations as set
forth in its Statement of Operating Policies and Proce-
dures, the Financiera shall, unless the Banco otherwise
agrees, promptly repay an amount of the Subsidiary Loan
equivalent to the fair value of such property or assets or
make other arrangements satisfactory to the Banco to
protect or secure the interests of the Banco.
SECTION 4.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Financiera shall not incur, or permit any of its Finan-
cial Subsidiaries to incur any debt if, after the incurring
of any such debt, the consolidated debt of the Financiera
and all its Financial Subsidiaries then incurred and out-
standing would be greater than four times the consolidated
capital and surplus of the Financiera and all its Financial
Subsidiaries.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by the
Financiera or any of its Financial Subsidiaries.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan
contract or agreement, on the date and to the extent the
amount of the loan is drawn down and outstanding pur-
suant to such a loan contract or agreement, and (ii) under
a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement provid-
ing for such guarantee has been entered into, but only to
the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(e) The term "consolidated debt of the Financiera and
all its Financial Subsidiaries" means the total amount of
debt of the Financiera and all its Financial Subsidiaries,


﻿13
excluding any debt owed by the Financiera to any Financial
Subsidiary or by any Financial Subsidiary to the Finan-
ciera or to any other Financial Subsidiary.
(d) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of the
Financiera and all its Financial Subsidiaries" means the
aggregate of the total unimpaired paid-up capital and the
unallocated surplus and free reserves of the Financiera
and all its Financial Subsidiaries after excluding therefrom
such amounts as shall represent equity interests of the
Financiera in any Financial Subsidiary or of any Financial
Subsidiary in the Financiera or any other Financial Sub-
sidiary.
(e) The term "Financial Subsidiary" means any sub-
sidiary which, in the judgment of the Bank, is engaged in
promotional, financial or technical activities similar or com-
plementary to the operations of the Financiera.
(f) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Pesos debt payable in a
foreign currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
foreign currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable
by the Financiera or its Financial Subsidiaries for the pur-
poses of servicing such debt.
The provisions of this Section supersede all prior agree-
ments between the Banco and the Financiera relating to
the relationship between the indebtedness and the equity
of the Financiera and its subsidiaries.
SECTION 4.08. The Financiera shall at all times take all
steps necessary to maintain its corporate existence and
right to carry on operations and shall take all steps neces-
sary to maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct
of its business.
SECTION 4.09. The Financiera shall cause each of its sub-
sidiaries (if any) to observe and perform the obligations


﻿14
of the Financiera hereunder to the extent to which such
obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as though
such obligations were binding upon each of such subsidi-
aries.
SECTION 4.10. In addition to other charges payable by
the Financiera to the Banco in accordance with Section 2.06
of this Agreement, the Financiera shall charge each Invest-
ment Enterprise to which it makes a sub-loan interest at
a rate of not less than three percentage points above the
rate of interest payable by the Financiera to the Banco
under Section 2.05 of this Agreement, calculated in the
same manner and on the same amounts provided for in
such Section.
SECTION 4.11. The Finantciera shall take such steps, satis-
factory to the Bank, as shall be necessary to protect itself
against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of
exchange between the currencies (including Pesos) used in
its lending and borrowing operations.
ARTICLE V
Remedies
SECTION 5.01. (a) If (i) a default shall have occurred
in the due and punctual payment of any amount payable
by the Financiera to the Banco under this Agreement; or
(ii) a default shall have occurred in the performance of
any other obligation on the part of the Financiera under
this Agreement; or (iii) the Bank shall have declared the
principal amount of the part of the Loan relent to the
Financiera pursuant to this Agreement and then outstand-
ing to be due and payable immediately, then the Banco
may by notice to the Financiera suspend in whole or in
part the right of the Financiera to request the Banco to
withdraw from the Loan Account the amount of the Loan
allocated to the Financiera and such right shall continue
to be suspended in whole or in part, as the case may be,


﻿15
until the event or events which gave rise to such suspension
shall have ceased to exist or until the Banco shall have
notified the Financiera that such right has been restored,
whichever is the earlier.
(b) If the Banco's right under the Loan Agreement to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been
suspended or terminated with respect to any amount in
the Loan Account allocated to the Financiera, regardless
of the reason therefor, then the right of the Financiera to
make withdrawals from the Subsidiary Loan Account as
provided in this Agreement shall likewise and simultane-
ously be suspended or terminated, as the case may be.
SECTION 5.02. If (i) the event described in Section
5.01(a) (i) of this Agreement shall have occurred and it
shall continue for a period of thirty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Banco to the Finan-
ciera; or (ii) the event described in Section 5.01(a) (ii) of
this Agreement shall have occurred and it shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Banco to the Financiera; or (iii) the event
described in Section 5.01(a) (iii) of this Agreement shall
have occurred and be continuing, then the Banco, at its
option, may declare the principal amount of the Subsidiary
Loan then outstanding to be due and payable immediately,
and upon such declaration such principal amount together
with interest and other charges thereon shall become due
and payable immediately, anything in this Agreement to
the contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
SECTION 6.01. This Agreement shall not enter into force
and effect until:
(a) the Loan Agreement shall have become effective in
respect of the Financiera;


﻿16
(b) the Financiera shall have furnished to the Bank cash
flow projections, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank, for the years 1971 through 1975 inclu-
sive;
(c) the Federacidn Nacional de Cafeteros of Colombia
and the Financiera shall have 3entered into an agree-
ment providing for a loan from Federacidn, Nacional
de Cafeteros of Colombia to the Financiera in Pesos,
in an amount equivalent to, at least, four million
dollars, such agreement to be upon terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank;
(d) the agreement referred to in paragraph (c) of this
Section shall have become effective;
(e) the Financiera shall have furnished to the Bank evi-
dence satisfactory to the Bank that it has complied
with the provisions of Section 4.11 of this Agree-
ment;
(f) the subscribed capital of the Financiera shall have
been increased by an amount of at least twenty mil-
lion Pesos over and above the amount of such sub-
scribed capital as of March 1, 1971;
(g) the capital subscription referred to in paragraph (f)
of this Section shall have been paid in full to the
Financiera;
(h) the Directors of the Financiera shall have approved
such policy guidelines for the conduct of its opera-
tions, supplemental to and not inconsistent with, its
Statement of Policies and Procedures, as shall be
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(i) the Financiera shall have furnished to the Bank evi-
dence satisfactory to the Bank that the administra-
tive organization, the internal control of investments,


﻿17
and the financial condition of the Financiera have
been improved to an extent satisfactory to the Bank.
SECTION 6.02. If and when the entire principal amount
of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn from the Subsidiary
Loan Account and all interest and other charges which shall
have accrued thereon shall have been paid, this Agreement
and all the obligations hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
SECTION 6.03. (a) Any notice, demand or request re-
quired or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall
be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered, in the case of the Banco
at its principal office in Bogota, Colombia, and in the case
of the Financiera at its principal office in Apartado Aereo
No. 460, Manizales, Colombia, or at such other address
which the Banco or the Financiera may from time to time
specify in writing to the other party.
(b) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the Banco may be taken or
executed by its General Manager or such person or persons
as he shall designate in writing.
(c) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the Financiera may be taken
or executed by its President or such person or persons as
he shall designate in writing.
SECTION 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in sev-
eral counterparts, each of which shall be an original and
all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be signed in


﻿18
their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America as of the day and
year first above written.
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
By   /s/ ALFONSO PATIRO ROSSELLI
Authorized Representative
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE CALDAS
By /s/ EDUARDO ARANGO
Authorized Representative


