Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Rev t No. P-4009-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF USg13.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
ELECTROPERU
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR THE
POWER ENGINEERING II PROJECT
June 13, 1985
This doneiagi I= a reus&lMt. dIuilautloin su may be a.ed by recipient emy In the petfonuunce of
ir eal dude.. 1s eamleb may a gtirw  be diswisedl wi thot World Bk        otl



Currency Unit (SI.)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the
differential between domestic and international inflation. The exchange rate
and currency equivalents as of May 15, 1985 were as follows:
US$1      -  S/.9,056
S/.1      -  US$0.000110
S/.1,000 - US$0.11
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
COFIDE           -  State Development Finance Corporation
ELECTROLIMA      -  Electrolima, S.A. (Lima Power Company)
ELECTROPERU      -  Empresa Electricidad del Peru, S.A.
(National Power Company)
GWh              -  Gigawatt hour (1,000,000 KWh)
kWh              -  Kilowatt hour
IDB              -  Inter-American Development Bank
kgoe             -  Kilogram of oil equivalent
MW               - Megawatt (1,000 Kw)
MEM              - Ministry of Energy and Mines
NEC              -  National Energy Council
toe              -  tons of oil equivalent
tpy              -  ton per year
USAID            -  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
iuu - PDSUETS  nrozr
PGrz  zNuosmuxu& II PROJECr
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUNMARY AND CONCLUSIONS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . 
I.   The Economy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
II.  Bank Group Operations in Peru . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
III. The Energy Sector . . . . . . .        . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .    7
IV. The Project . . . . . .        *. *. *. *. .*. ...*.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  15
V.  Legal Instruments and Authority . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
VI.  Recommendation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   20
Annex I   - Social and Economic Indicators . . . . . . . . .    21
Annex II  - The Status of Bank Group Operations in Peru  . .   27
Annex III - Supplementary Data Sheet . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
Annex IV  - Consolidated Financial Statements  . . . . . . .   31
Annex v   - List of Goods and Studies  . . . . . . . . . . .   33
Annex VI -  Statistical Information for Regional Utilities .   34
Annex VII -  Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
Map   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recpients only in the performance of |
I th  offici duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



PERU
?OWER ENGINEERING II PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Empresa Electricidad del Peru, S.A. (ELECTROPERU).  In
accordance with Peruvian law, the Corporacion Financiera
de Desarrollo (COFIDE) would act as ELECTROPERU ' and the
Guarantor's financial agent.
Guarantor:           Republic of Peru.
Beneficiaries:       Electro-Norte S.A., Electro-Sur-Medio S.A., Electro-
Sur-Oeste S.A., Electro-Oriente S.A., Electro-Centro
S.A., Electro-Sur-Este S.A., Electro-Norte-Medio
Ridrandina S.A., and Electro-Sur S.A.
Amount:              US$13.5 million equivalent.
Terms:               Repayable in 17 years, including four years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:    ELECTROPERU would onlend $13.1 million of the proceeds of
the loan to the beneficiaries (Electro-Norte US$1.95
-aillion, Electro-Sur-Medio US$1.4 million,
Electro-Sur-Oeste US$0.6 million, Electro-Oriente US$1.2
million, Electro-Centro US$2.2 million, Electro-Sur-Este
US$1.95 million, Electro-Norte-Medio Ridrandina US$2.95
million and Electro-Sur US$0.85 million) all on the same
terms and conditions as the Bank loan, and would retain
US$0.4 million for its own use. The beneficiaries would
bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
Project
Description:        The proposed project is designed to support the process
of regionalization by which nine regional utilities have
been established to be in charge of all local electricity
services. This process will improve the efficiency of
the electricity services by making them more responsive
to local needs. The project consists of: (i) studies to
improve the organization, performance and operations of
the regional utilities; (ii) studies to identify the
causes of high system losses and poor reliability and to
propose measures for system rehabilitation; (iii) distri-
bution planning studies; (iv) a study to develop
performance indicators and performance targets and to
identify the measures needed to achieve such targets;
(v) consultant services to review the current tariff
structure and make recommendations for the implementation
of the necessary adjustments; (vi) studies to bring



- il -
regional generation projects to feasibility level: and
(vii) purchase, and--where applicable--iustallation of
microcomputers and accessories, equipment for
communications, high-prlority system components and
parts, and maintenance and laboratory equipment.
Risks:               The principal risks facing the Project arise from the
relative lack of experience and, in some cases, weak
management of the beneficiaries. To reduce these risks,
ELECTROPERU would set up a coordinating unit (to assist
the management of the regional companies until the
regionalization process is well-established and to
supervise the project) and the beneficiaries would set up
*-ordinating groups to facilitate procurement and the
undertaking of transmission and distribution studies.
The Bank will also provide assistance drafting
terms-of-reference for some of the studies included In
the project. The project poses no environmental risks.
Estimated Project Cost (US$000):
Local      Foreign        TOTAL
Studies                                  4,170       4,835          9,005
Maintenance equipment                    1,610        2,010         3,620
Communications, computing equipment,
system components and parts            2,130       2,375          4,505
Laboratory equipment                       790        1,130         1,920
Total Base Cost                          8,700      10,350         19,050
Physical contingencies                     870        1,035         1,905
Price contingencies                      1,730       2,115          3,845
Total                                   11,300       13,500        24,800
Financing Plan:
Beneficiaries and ELECTROPERU           11,300        -            11,300
Bank                                       -         13,500        13,500
11,300      13,500         24,800
Estimated                                       (US$ million by Bank FY)
Disbursements:                           1986     1987    1988    1989  1990
Annual               1.5      4.9      3.9     2.6   0.6
Cumulative           1.5      6.4    10.3    12.9  13.5
Rate of Return:      Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:              None



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
ELECTROPERU FOR THE POWER ENGINEERING II PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to ELECTROPERU for the equivalent of US$13.5 million to help finance a
project supporting the Peruvian power sector regionalization process. The
proposed loan would have a term of 17 years, includirg four years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOKY1/
2.        A Peru Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 5267) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on November 6, 1984. The following is
based on the findings of that report and the findings of an economic mission
to Peru in November 1984. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Natural and Human Resources
3.        Peru, the fourth largest c.untry in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region with 46
percent of the population and most of the country's modern economic activity;
the mountain region with 44 percent of the couitry's population; and the
sparsely populated tropical rain forests east of the Andes.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals-
particularly copper, iron, silver, and zinc--located mainly in the
mountains and the southern coast. There are also large phosphate deposits
and substantial petroleum resources in the rain forest and off-shore, but
their full extent has not yet been ascertained. Another major natural
resource is the large fishing potential in coastal waters, although the catch
is subject to sharp fluctuations. Only a small portion of Peru's total land
area is arable, and most of the soils suitable for intensive agriculture are
already being farmed. Peru's energy resources are discussed further in Part
III, The Energy Sector.
5.        After accelerating during 1930-1960, birth rates have fallen
gradually, mainly caused by the urbanization process and improved education.
But with declining death rates, population has continued to grow at about 2.5
percent p.a. between 1972 and 1981 to 17 million. Preliminary 1981 census
information indicates that fertility declined by 20 percent during the past
decade and the current rate of population growth has dropped to 2.2 percent
p.a. The census also indicates that the reduction in population growth is
most marked among the 65 percent of the population living in the urban
areas. The Government is quite population-conscious and is now supporting a
family planning program.
1/ Substantially the same as Part I in Report No. P-3955-PE of
April 18, 1985.



- 2 -
Past Development Policies and Performance (1968-78)
6.        Two successive military Governments, in office from October 1968
until July 1980, aimed at promoting economic growth and improving the
distribution of 5s1ome and wealth.  They nationalized many production and
distribution activities, and conducted a sweeping land reform.  However, many
of their policies had an excessive cost, and implementation was often
inefficient. In particular, expansionary fiscal and credit policies between
1968 and 1977 produced strong inflationary pressures and expanded external
borrowing, raising Peru's external debt to almost US$8.4 billion (including
short-term indebtedness); about two-third's of GDP. By mid-1978, the country
was in the midst of a severe financial crisis; inflation had accelerated to
an annual rate of about 100 percent and the banking system's net
international reserves dropped to a negative level of US$1 billion. Peru was
no longer able to service its foreign obligations.
7.        Beginning in May 1978, the Government adopted a number of important
measures aimed at strengthening public finances, improving the balance of
payments and curbing inflation. It negotiated a stand-by-arrangement with
the IMF and carried out major debt-relief operations, postponing repayment of
about US$1 billion due in 1979/80 to the 1982-1986 period. The Government
also adopted a complementary Economic Recovery Program, including measures to
open up the economy, supported by a US$115 million Bank Program Loan in May
1979.
8.        The Government's program resulted in reducing the overall public
sector deficit from 5.7 percent of GDP in 1978 to 1.7 percent in 1979, and
the more careful management of public finances had a positive impact on the
balance of payments. At the same time, an increase in petroleum exports and
a substantial improvement in Peru's terms of trade generated a surplus in the
current account of the balance of payments in 1979 and equilibrium in 1980,
as well as strengthening Peru's net reserves position. GDP growth recovered,
but the public sector deficit increased again to six percent of GDP in 1980,
and inflation exceeded 60 percent.
9.        After a new constitution was written by a popularly elected
constituent assembly, elections were held in May 1980, and the winner,
President Fernando Belaunde, was inaugurated on July 28, 1980. His
Gove.nment confronted severe structural weaknesses only temporarily obscured
by the improvements in the terms of trade and the resumption of growth. The
Government initially accelerated import liberalization and streamlined export
incentives. At the same time, new legislation offered greater incentives to
investors. Substantial changes were made in the financial sector, through
upward adjustments of the interest rate, and the reduction of legal reserve
requirements. The Government also made progress in correcting major price
distortions by reducing food subsidies, eliminating some price controls and
periodically adjusting public utility and petroleum product prices. Finally,
the Government endeavored to strengthen public management and rationalize
public investment and its financing, an effort that was supported by a
Bank-sponsored Consultative Group meeting in May 1981.



-3-
Recent Developments and Outlook
10.       The 1981-83 world recession radically changed Peru's economic
situation. In 1981, the first full year of the new Government, the world
demand for Peru's main exports declined, interest rates on the country's
external debt increased, and the terms of trade fell by 10 percent as a
result of lower export prices. The overall negative impact of these external
events on Peru's balance of payments was estimated at US$740 million. A
substantial recovery of agricultural output (with a growth rate of almost 12
percent) and an even faster growth of construction (mostly public) allowed
GDP growth of near four percent. However, industrial output stagnated,
mining fell by four percent, the public sector deficit increased to about
eight percent of GDP and the current account of the balance of payments
closed with a deficit of US$1.7 billion.
11.       By 1982, economic activity was slowing down, world commodity prices
continued to fall, and the public sector deficit had also increased. The
Government then adopted an austerity program and in June 1982, the IMF
approved an SDR 850 million compensatory-cum-EFF arrangement to support
Peru's stabilization efforts. The current account deficit in the balance of
payments was reduced slightly (to US$1.6 billion) in 1982, despite lower
export prices, but GDP growth slowed to less than one percent, industrial
output fell more than two percent, the public sector deficit rose to 8.8
percent of GDP, and inflation continued at more than 70 percent.
12.       The still sizeable public sector and current account deficits,
combined with the reduced availability of external loans from international
commercial banks, encouraged the Government to try to accelerate the
adjustment process in 1983. The new measures included a large cut in public
investment, acceleration of price adjustments of publicly supplied goods and
services, and faster reduction of food subsidies. Also, the Government
followed a restrictive monetary policy, and mini-devaluations from January to
August 1983 again exceeded domestic inflation, as they had during 1982.
13.       Peru's economic difficulties, however, were compounded by natural
disasters suffered during the first half of 1983. Heavy rains flooded the
northern part of the country; Liiere was also a severe drought in the south,
massive landslides in the central area, and a reduction in the fish
catch.Most of these were linked to a change in El Nino, a current in the
Pacific Ocean off the Peruvian coast. These disasters were costly; replacing
the damaged infrastructure could require over US$500 million. Output losses
were also substantial. Agricultural production was particularly hard hit in
the north of Peru where cotton crops were destroyed. Flooding of the Talara
oil fields and damage to the trans-Andean pipeline caused a 12 percent drop
in oil production (to an average of 172,000 bpd), and a ten percent fall in
petroleum exports.
14.       In addition to the natural disasters, the private sector suffered
from a severe credit squeeze when the Central Bank protected Peru's foreign
exchange reserves as foreign interest payments rose and previous inflows of
short-term capital reversed. The squeeze in the private sector was
intensified by the dominant claim of the public sector on available
credit. Despite the credit squeeze, inflation accelerated to 125 percent, in
part a result of the natural disasters, but also of inflationary exnectations



- 4 -
fueled by the mini-devaluations. The 10.9 percent GDP decline was dominated
by output drops in manufacturing, services and agriculture, although output
in some smaller sectors, such as fishing and construction, fell more
sharply. The current account deficit in the balance of payments was reduced
to about US$900 million as imports declined with output. The fi-;ancing of
even this reduced deficit required a renegotiation of commercial bank debt
(in March 1983) and of debt to member countries of the Paris Club (in July
1983). The rescheduling agreement with the commercial banks allowed for the
phased release of US$450 million in "new money", subject to the Government's
receiving continuing IMF support under the EFF agreement. Unfortunately,
public sector revenues declined substantially during the recession, and the
public sector deficit, at nearly 11 percent of GDP, substantially exceeded
the Government's target under the EFF.
15.       By the end of 1983, it was clear to the Government that it could
not meet the terms of the EFF arrangement; it therefore negotiated with the
IMF an 18-month Standby to replace the final period of the EFF. The Standby
was approved in April 1984. As part of its new program, the Government
increased interest payments in bank denosits, raised electricity and water
rates in real terns and confirmed its tight money program. On the strength
of the Standby, Peru's commercial creditor banks agreed to a rescheduling of
US$1.5 billion in amortization payments due to them between January 1984 and
July 1985, and released US$100 million in new money. Bilateral lenders
agreed under the Paris Club in June 1984 to reschedule over US$800 million of
1984/85 principal and interest payments. No drawings have been made against
the Standby since June 19B4, since the Government found itself unable to meet
the program targets.
16.       In 1984, the economy experienced a modest recovery, with GDP
increasing by about 4 percent as fishing rebounded strongly, agriculture
began a slow recovery, and moderate growth resumed in most other sectors
except Government services and manufacturing. The recovery in manufacturing
was weak because real domestic demand remained depressed, reflecting
continuing tight credit conditions. Since exports rose slightly, while
imports again fell in response to continuing slack in domestic demand and
rising protection, the current account balance of payments deficit
contracted to about US$770 million. Continuing substantial public medium and
long-term loan disbursements and diminished short-term capital outflows were
the main factors contributing to a net capital inflow more than adequate to
cover the current account deficit. However, the current account deficit had
been substantially reduced by Government non-payment of interest due to
commercial banks making the increase of US$75 million in Peru's reserves
illusory. The inflation rate slowed perceptibly in the latter part of 1984,
reflecting both tight money and renewed output growth. Inflation for the
year dropped to about 112 percent, compared with 125 percent the previous
year. In the last half of the year, the sol was devalued faster than
domestic inflation considerably improving Peru's international competitive
position. With an improvement in public sector revenues and a drop in
expenditures, the public sector deficit declined to a little over 8 percent
of GDP.
17.       As of May, 1985, arrears on Peru's external debt service payments
were approximately US$500 million, of which interest accounted for US$350
million and principal US$150 million. Some of the interest payments were



-5-
more than 180 days overdue, although none of the loans Involved has been
clasified as "value impaired" by the U.S. banking authorities. Peru
confronts a very serious problem in servicing its outstanding debt, estimated
at US$13.3 billion at end-1984 (roughly 71 percent of GDP), of which total
medium and long-term debt was US$12.1 billion (public, on estimated US$9.8
billion in 1984 (US$7.9 billion in 1984)). The bulk of the overall debt will
mature over the next four years, posing acute short-run difficulties. The
1984 level of public sector debt service obligations (principal and interest)
represented 72.3 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services and
transfers, while interest obligations alone represented 27.5 percent. In
view of Peru's difficulties in meeting even its interest payment obligations
in 1984/5, it will probably be necessary for the Government to raise public
sector revenues and export receipts, gain access to new commercial money, and
seek further debt rescheduling if it is to service its debt obligations over
the next several years. The new Government assuming power at the end of July
will need to focus at an early stage on the conditions for obtaining such
debt relief.
18.       The Central Bank continues to exert strict control over credit and
the Government has implemented a number of tax measures, including raising
gasoline prices, designed to raise revenues and reduce the public sector
deficit to 7.1 percent of GDP from 8.1 percent in 1984. If satisfactory new
arrangements regarding debt service can be made with the commercial
banks, which hold more than half of Peru's external debt, and the new
Government is committed to initiating a viable economic recovery program to
raise the country's longer-term economic growth rate, Peru could remain
creditworthy for Bank lending. Pending the resolution of present
uncertainties, Bank lending will continue only at a substantially reduced
rate.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU2/
19.       The Bank has approved 59 loans to Peru for a total amount of
US$1,671.9 million, net of cancellations.   About 22 percent of the Bank's
lending to Peru has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports), 25
percent for agriculture, 19 percent for the energy sector, 11 percent for
mining and industry, about 15 percent for education, health and urban
development, 7 percent for a program loan in support of the Economic Recovery
Program in 1979, and one percent for technical assistance.
20.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and their
disbursement status as of March 31, 1985. As of this date, US$746." million
was undisbursed. Disbursements on Bank-financed projects moved slowly in the
late 1970s, primarily because of weak project execution capacity and a
shortage of counterpart funds that worsened as the economy deteriorated
during this period. Disbursements improved until FY83, however, with
vigorous efforts by the Bank and Government to correct the situation by:
inter alia, (i) opening a Bank resident mission in Peru; (ii) restructuring a
number of slow-moving projects; (iii) Government provision of adequate
counterpart funds; and (iv) Government creation of a special comission to
monitor loan execution and resolve administrative problems. Disbursement
2/ Substantially the same as Part II of Report No. P-3955-PE of
April 18, 1985.



- 6 -
rates (the rate of disbursements to undisbursed funds) in FY8O-82 averaged 33
percent, well above comparable countries and above pre-1980 rates for Peru.
Although actual disbursements continued to rise in FY83 (US$86.9 million) and
FY84 (US$104.2 million), the rate decreased to around 20 percent because the
large number of loans approved in 1982-83 increased the undisbursed balance
and because only Limited counterpart funds were available. To some extent,
the counterpart problem has been ameliorated by the Special Action Program
which the Bank initiated in Peru in 1983. The Program increased the
percentage of costs which the Bank would finance in seven projects and
established revolving funds in five projects.
21.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru have been to assist in:
(i) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial sectors, i.e., petroleum,
agriculture and mining; (ii) the strengthening, through techaical assistance
'Loans and regular operations, of public sector management, including more
effective economic policies; (iii) the creation of the physical
infrastructure needed to sustain and foster economic development; and (iv)
the improvement of living conditions for the urban and rural poor. In the
years prior to 1980, Bank lending concentrated on infrastructure in the
transportation and power sectors. More recently, the Bank's emphasis has
shifted to more directly productive fields-petroleum, agriculture, mining,
and industry--to help Peru to strengthen its balance of payments and to
lending for socially oriented projects in the areas of health, education and
urban development. The recently reduced program will focus on priority
social projects or technical assistance projects that will provide a
foundation for the resumption, if and when circumstances warrant, of a rnormal
lending program.
22.       Earlier this fiscal year, the Bank approved a US$27 million primary
education project and a US$4 million project which will establish
institutions to assist the industrial sector in Peru in reducing energy costs
through conservation by means of conducting energy audits and through other
means. Another project is tinder preparation which would continue and expand
the work begun under the first Public Sector Management Project (Loan
2204-PE) which was approved in September 1982. Bank lending beyond these
projects will depend very much on the economic program and development
priorities that the new Government scheduled to take office in July 1985
adopts. Possible areas of lending could be in industry, petroleum
development, water and electric power. Some project preparation work has
been undertaken in all of these areas.
23.       Bank loans conctituted an estimated 6.0 percent of Peru's total
public external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1983, and
absorbed about nine percent of the country's public external debt service in
1983 (taking into account the effects of rescheduling of 1983 principal and
interest payments).
24.       IFC commitments as of March 31, 1985 were US$42.6 million of which
US$Z2.9 million is held by the Corporation. A summary statement of IFC
investments as of March 31, 1985 is presented in Annex II. The other
principal lending agencies active in Peru are the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB) and the United States Agency for International Development



- 7 -
(USAID). Their total commitments as of December 31, 1984 were US$1.6 billion
and US$438 million, respectively. In its future operations,IDB is expected
to empnaslze lending for agriculture, industry, mining, roads and small-scale
irrigation. USAID is expected to stress rural, urban and private sector
development.
PART III - TEE ENERGY SECTOR
25.       Energy Resource Base and Balance.  Peru has diverse and as yet
largely untapped energy resources, consisting of hydroelectric power, oil,
natural gas, coal, geothermal power, and renewable resources such as firewood
and bagasse. Hydroelectric potential, of which less than 4 percent (2,000
MW) is presently exploited, is estimated at about 58,000 MW. Proven and
probable oil reserves are estimated at about 1.4 billion barrels, natural gas
at about 54 billion cubic meters and coal at about 1 billion tons. Although
hot water springs exist in many parts of the country, the Government is only
now beginning to study these geothermal resources. Peru also has abundant
forests covering almost 60 percent of its total land area. More than 95
percent of these forests, however, are located in the sparsely populated
Selva region, with fuelwood scarce in most of the densely-populated areas.
26.       Peru consumes annually about 11.3 million tons of oil equivalent
(toe) of energy, resulting in a per capita consumption of about 690 kilograms
of oil equivalent (kgoe), compared with a world average of 1,500
kgoe, and a Latin American average of 1,000 kgoe. Petroleum products
accounted for the largest share of energy consumption (about 60%), followed
by firewood (24%), electricity (6%), natural gas (5%), bagasse and other
biomass (4.5%), and coal (0.5%).
27.       Ccmmercial energy consumption is about 8.3 million toe, accounting
for 73 percent of total consumption; traditional sources accounted for the
remaining 27 percent. The transport sector is the largest consumer of
commercial energy (30%), followed by industry (22Z), household (20%), and
mining and metallurgical sectors (15%). Petroleum is the main energy source
for industry, mining and transport sectors, accounting for 49 percent,   46
percent, and 100 percent, respectively, of consumption in those sectors.
28.       During the last decade, the petroleum subsector in Peru has changed
considerably. Successful commercial exploitation of its petroleum deposits
transformed Peru from a net importer of petroleum to a net exporter by 1978.
This was accompanied by an increased growth in domestic consumption of
petroleum energy, partly due to a shift in consumption from iron-petroleum to
petroleum energy. Peru's petroleum production during 1985-88 is forecast to
average about 9.8 million tons per year (tpy), beyond which it is expected to
decline unless new wells are discovered. As a result, crude exports are
likely to decrease sharply from the present level of about 2 million tons,
further aggravating Peru's trade balance. As domestic consumption rises,
Peru is likely to become a net petroleum importer by the late 1980s. In this
context, energy conservation and inter-fuel substitution, especially in the
industrial and mining sectors are of crucial importance for Peru. PETROPERU,
the national petroleum company, therefore, is keen on energy conservation and
rationalization as a means to maintain surplus petroleum for exports.



-8-
Energy Sector Organization and Planning
29.       The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) is responsible for
formulating energy policy and coordinating all energy planning activities in
the country. It regulates the exploration and exploitation of all energy
resources except forests, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of
Agriculture. MEM also initiates fuel pricinig actions but these must be
approved by the Minister of Finance and Economy. Operational responsibility
of the sector is delegated to various public sector corporations which report
to HEM. PETROPERU is responsible for the petroleum sub-sector; ELECTROPERU
and associated electric utility companies for the electric power sub-sector.
30.       The Government of Peru gives high priority to developing its energy
sector. In 1981, it established a National Energy Council (NEC) to provide
energy policy advice to the Minister of Energy and Mines; following approval
of its statutes in June 1983, the Council was officially inaugurated in
November 1983. The Council is comprised of a Directing Committee and a
Technical Secretariat. The Directing Committee consists of energy
specialists and representatives from various public-sector companies in the
energy sector. The Technical Secretariat is the Council's permanent working
body and is divided into three divisions: (i) energy policy, (ii) energy
conservation, and (iii) new and renewable energy sources. One of the tasks
of the Council is to promote the creation of a National Center for Energy
Conservation along with appropriate energy conservation legislation. The
Council's other tasks include preparing energy balances, recommending
financial policies for hydrocarbon and electricity development, coordinating
training programs for the energy sector, and carrying out energy planning for
the country.
The Electric-Power Subsector
31.       Prior to 1972, the public utility portion of the subsector was
composed of private, municipal and State entities serving concession zones or
regions; no national sector planning or coordination existed. Captive plants
serving large mining and industrial installations, which accounted for about
40 percent of total electricity generation, were generally not interconnected
with public-service systems. The Electricity Law of 1972 made the State the
principal authority in the sector. Under this Law, MEM was given
responsibility for power sector policy formulation, for the authorization of
investments, and for regulation and tariff setting. The 1972 Electricity Law
also created ELECTROPERU, provided for State participation in existing
private utilities (by far the largest of which was the predecessor company to
ELECTROLIMA') and provided for interconnection of power systems. The law gave
ELECTROPERU responsibility for planning, engineering, construction and
operation of all new generating facilities larger than 10 MW and for the
development and construction of the transmission network.
32.       This structure proved to be ineffective.  ELECTROPERU was poorly
managed and overstaffed, quality of service was poor and planning was
inadequate. To address these problems, organization studies were carried out
in 1979 and 1980, financed by the Bank under Loan 1215-PE, and by the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). With input from these studies, a
general electricity law was drafted and enacted in 1982.



33.       The 1982 Electricity Law called for the decentralization of
distribution and of local generation. Pursuant to the law, eight new
regional companies (in addition to ELECTROLIMA, which already existed) have
been created. ELECTROPERU, however, still maintains its planning role (which
is being strengthened under loans 2018-PE and 2179-PE) and continues to be
responsible for large generation projects and for interregional transmission.
34.       The following is a listing of the principal institutions in the
sector and their functions:
a)    The eirectorate General of Electricity within the Ministry of
Energy and Mines, is the agency responsible for policy formulation;
b)    ELECTROPERU iB the holding company for the regional utility
companies and has been given the responsibility for supervising and
coordinating their activities, carrying out investment planning at
the national level, executing multi-regional projects and operating
large generation projects and the national transmission system;
c)    the Tariff Comission is a rate setting body which has
representatives from the Government, municipalities, private
industry, the College of Engineers and the regional utilities, and
d)    the regional utilities provide electricity service within their
areas.
35.       The law allows the establishment of private electric power
generation companies, as well as joint public/private sector companies.
The Bank has been requested to participate, together with IDB, in financing
a hydroelectric project for a joint company. The project is under
consideration for possible Bank financing.
36.       As of December 31, 1984 the Peruvian power sector had an installed
generating capacity of 2,300 MW, of which 73% is hydro. In addition, about
1,100 MW are owned by autoproducers (78% thermal). The power sector serves
about 1.4 million customers, and this implies that about 42% of the
population has access to electricity.
Sector Issues
37.       The regionalization of electricity services has uncovered important
issues that the sector should address to achieve satisfactory levels of
efficiency. ELECTROPERU is still overstaffed and the ongoing efforts to
reduce personnel should be maintained. At present, there is a freeze on new
staff hirings; the Bank is monitoring progress in this matter through Loan
2179-PE. Parallel to this, the power sector should use the autonomy which it
was given in 1981 to untie its pay scales from the public sector salary
structure to increase the relative salaries of professional and skilled
staff, particularly outside Lima. Finally, training efforts should be
intensified, particularly for the staff of the regional utiliti-q, some of
which are having to handle new responsibilities. Through Loan 2179-PE the
Bank is already providing assistance in this area.
38.       Human resource management is but one of the problems that the
sector has. System planning is still poor, the inventory of alternative



- 10 -
generation projects for future system expansion is inadequate (the Bank is
assisting in this regard through studies financed under loan 2018-PE), sector
finances are in a poor shape (paras. 40-46), and the operations of the system
still leave room for improvement. Technical losses and the frequency of
outages are high, particularly in some regions, and in many areas maintenance
nas been poor an.  rehabilitation of networks and installatins will be
required.
39.       To assist the Government and ELECTROPERU in monitoring the
performance of the regional utilities and to help the Tariff Comission in
estal-lishing efficiency standards for the disallowance of costs for rate
setting purposes ELECTROPERU would engage consultants, whose qualifications
and terms of reference should be satisfactory to the Bank, to carry-out a
atudy to develop performance indicators and performance targets, and to
identify the measures needed to achieve these targets. IT is expected that
the consultants will be engaged by March 30, 1986 and ttiat the study would be
completed by December 31, 1986. The resulting recommendations would be
implemented after consultation with the Bank.
Sector Finances3/
40.       Until 1970 power companies in Peru maintained steady profitability
and a strong financial situation. Rate levels were set to allow them to earn
a return on equity close to 11.5 percent and this allowed them to tap the
capital markets when necessary. In the early seventies this stopped working
well. High inflation and political pressures not to increase the rates
charged by the utilities, several of which had been recently
nationalized,caused real tariff levels to erode and sector finances to
deteriorate.
41.       After 1975 efforts were made to improve rate levels; however,
inflation often offset the increases approved and the achievements were
modest and insufficient to allow the financial recuperation of the sector.
The failure of sector authorities to follow a consistent tariff policy has
resulted in financial seesaws for the sector, which in the past few years has
been forced to cut down on investments and to seek financial assistance from
the Government.  The evolution of electricity rates is shown in the table
below.
Average Electricity Rates
Current         Constant          USS cents/
Year      Soles/kWh        Soles/kWh             kWh
1979        6.90              6.90               3.07
1980       10.16              6.38               3.52
1981       18.78              6.73               4.45
1982       33.43              7.28              4.79
1983       62.94              6.49               3.87
1984      153.01              7.51               4.23
December   1984       253.27              9.07              4.44
3/ Since the regionalization process is so recent most of the beneficiaries
do not yet have audited financial statements for their first year of
operation. Thus a consolidated analysis of sector finances is more
meaningful than an analysis of each beneficiary. ELECTROPERU's financial
situation mirrors that of the sector.



- 11 -
As may be seen, some improvement in rate levels was achieved by 1982 but this
was lost in 1983. At their present level of about US$cents 4.4/kWh average
rates represent about 65 percent of long-run marginal cost.
42.       In 1983 the sector had a rate of return on revalued assets of -1.2
percent. ELECTROPERU's rate of return was -1.7 percent. These results, in
the context of a recession and serious fiscal problems faced by the
Government, caused ELECTROPERU to stop or slow-down construction of some
large projects. Problems were compounded as access to external financing was
no longer available, and the sector had to increase its reliance on
short-term borrowings.
43.       Between December 1983 and December 1984 electricity rates were
increased nearly 40 percent above inflation, but this was insufficient to
meet the sector's financial requirements. The investment program was reduced
significantly relative to the sector's original expectations, to accommodate
the public sector investment targets agreed with the IMF and also reflecting
lack of access to external financing. By year-end, the debt equity ratio had
increased to 50:50, which is still sound. Nearly one-third of the sector's
indebtedness was short-term, which reflects both relatively short average
debt maturities (nine years) for the long-term debt of the sector, and a
significant use of short-term financing as source of funding.
44.       Prospects for 1985 are not too different from what took place in
1984. Electricity rate increases approved before the beginning of the year
were 8, 7.5 and 7 percent for January, February and March, respectively.  At
the time these figures were decided upon, it had been expected that inflation
would be running below 6 percent per month, so that the increases approved
evidenced the intention to improve real tariff levels. The actual inflation
rate for January, however, was 14 percent, a significant jump from the trend
of the previous twelve months, when it had averaged about 6 percent. To
offset this, it was decided to change the amount of the March increase, from
7 percent to 9.4 percent, and to have higher increases (12, 11 and 10
percent) in April, May, and June 1985.
45.       The financial projections shown in Annex IV reflect no increase in
1985 average rates over their 1984 level, to take into account the real drop
that took place in January. This assumes no further real tariff erosion
through June (which under the present tariff increase plans seem reasonable),
and tariff increases of two percent over inflation in each of the following
months. ELECTROPERU and the regional companies have agreed to request
monthly increases of at least 2 percent from the tariff commission until the
en; of 1986 (Sections 4.02 and 5.02 of respectively the draft Project and
Loan Agreements) and the Government has agreed to take the actions necessary
to enable the companies to make such requests and the Tariff Commission to
favorably consider them (Section 3.01 of the draft Cuarantee Agreement). On
this basis, it is anticipated that by December 1985 electricity rates would
average US$cents 4.67/kWh, which represents an increase of five percent over
their level in December 1984.



- 12 -
46.       The financial projections (Annex IV) assume that from 1986 and
until 1989 electricity rates will be increased 10 percent per year, in real
terms. This would result in rates of return of 4 percent in 1986 and 1987,
5 percent in 1988 and 6 percent in 1989. Under this assumption, by 1988.'89
average tariffs would be close to the long-run marginal cost level, sector
finances would have improved to a reasonable level and the need for equity
contributions from the Government would have then been substantially reduced
or eliminated, provided that sector investments are kept relatively low. The
Bank intends to continue its dialogue with the Government that will take
office in July 1985 to encourage a faster pace of financial improvement for
the sector.
Tariff Legislation
47.       Through sector legislation approved in 1982, the Government has set
as a policy objective the reestablishment of the financial soundness that the
sector once had. This legislation provides that, on average, the sector
shall earn a rate of return on net fixed assets in operation of 12
percent. An addition to the electricity tariff consumers also pay a tax
(which amounts to 25 percent of the electricity bill for consumers that buy
more than 150 kWh per month, and to 10 percent for those that buy less). Of
the tax proceeds 80 percent is earmarked for system expansion, and the 20
percent balance goes to the Federal Government to help fund its budget.
48.       The law also established a system to equalize generation and
transmission costs. The utilities are required to sell all energy they
generate to a Fund, which pays them for their actual cost. The Fund, in
turn, pro zeeds to sell to the utilities the energy they require at the
average cost of all its energy purchases. This mechanism results in fairly
uniform rates for the sale of electricity to the final consumers throughout
the country.
49.       This framework, which also provides for quarterly asset
revaluation, is sound. A noteworthy feature has been the establishment of a
Tariff Commission in which the Government, the utilities and the private
sector are represented (para.34). During 1984 this Commission evidenced a
high degree of professionalism and ability to resist political pressures
against tariff increases. Agreement has been reached that any change to the
Electricity Law which would materially and adversely affect the ability of
the Commission to carry out its duties under the Laww would be considered an
event of default under the loan. (Section 6.01 (c) of the draft Loan
Agreement).



- 13 -
Tariff Structure
50.       Under Loan 1215-PE, in 1982 the Ministry of Energy and Mines
completed, with assistance from consultants, a study of electricity tariffs
to assist them in developing tariff structures based on marginal costs. The
results of the study show that the residential sector, small industry, and
irrigation are paying tariffs substantially below marginal costs, while large
industry's tariffs are substantially in line with marginal costs and tariffs
to the commercial sector are higher than marginal costs. Cross subsidization
between regions is taking place through equalization of generation and
transmission costs as described above, however the tariff structures do
recognize differences in distribution costs, and these result in regional
spreads of up to ten percent over the average national tariffs.
51.       The Tariff Commission (para. 49) now intends to update the 1982
Tariff Study and has budgeted training in marginal cost pricing for its
staff. They plan to progressively adapt the existing tariff structures to
reflect marginal costs, and the Bank would assist them through the proposed
loan, by financing consultant services. The consultants would be engaged for
the Tariff Commission by ELECTROPERU. The Bank will monitor the Commission's
efforts on this subject.
Power Demand and Sector Investment
52.       Electricity consumption in Peru is expected to grow at a four
percent average annual rate during the next decade. Generation requirements
in the interconnected North Central Region, which accounts for about 85
percent of the country's electricity use, are expected to increase from a
level of 7,100 GWh in 1985 to about 12,200 GWh in 1994, which also reflects
incorporation of existing loads (including those served by important
autoproducers, such as mining companies) to the interconnected grid.
Generation requirements in the two main interconnected southern systems, are
expected to increase (also reflecting connection of existing loads to main
grids) from 600 GWh in 1985 to 2200 GWh in 1994. In addition to the
incorporation of the autoproducers' generation facilities to the grid, it is
necessary that new generation facilities be commissioned in order to meet the
market requirements. At present the following projects are being considered:
(i) in the North-Central System: Carhuaquero (78 MW, 1988), Yuracmayo dam (88
GWB of firm energy, 1988), Yuncan (126 NW, 1992), Mayush (100 MW, 1994); (ii)
in the southern systems: Charcani V (135 MW, 1987), Machu-Picchu extension
(70 MW, 1987), Puente Ciel (1988) and Aricota (1990) regulating storages.
The Carhuaqueto, Charcani and Machu-Picchu projects are already under
construction and Yuracmayo is being financed under Loan 2179-PE. A
decision on the timing of Yuncan and Mayush is expected once system
optimization studies are updated. Alternatives utilizing gas are presently
also being considered and, if proven economic, could allow delaying one of
these two projects. The Bank is following up the study of these



- 14 -
alternatives. The investment program also includes the transmission lines
Chiclayo-Piura-Trujillo (1987/1988), Arequipa-Toquepala (1987) and
Tintayo-Azangaro-Juliana-Puno (1988/1992), which are needed to enhance system
interconnection and allow the replacement of thermal generation.
53.       Minimum investment needs during the period 1985-1990 are estimated
to amount to US$1.8 billion, an average of US$300 million per year.
Approximately half of this investment is required for completion of works
under execution. The investment level of US$300 million per year is well
below what Electroperu has considered as desirable (around US$450 million).
It is unrealistic to assume, under the present difficult financial situation
faced by the sector, an upgrading of system reliability beyond the reasonable
level provided by the US$300 million annual investment benchmark.
Experience with Past Lending
54.       The Bank has made seven loans amounting to US$208.7 million for
power development in Peru. Three loans, totalling US$56.5 million, were for
hydroelectric projects for the Lima area and three assigned US$111.3 million
for expansion of the Lima distribution networks. The most recent loan,
US$81.2 million, was made to ELECTROLIMA in 1982; it financed distribution
works, studies and training and also included funding for ELECTROPERU
(US$12.3 million) for studies and training and for RIDRANDINA (US$3.6
million) for the preparation of a hydroelectric project.
55.       Execution of the five projects that have been completed was
generally satisfactory. A Project Performance Audit Report has only been
done for the Fourth Project (Ln. 511-PE of 1967). This report (Sec. M75-682
of September 23, 1975) indicates that the project was completed about a year
late and with a small cost overrun. The delay arose from Empresas Electricas
Asociadas'(ELECTROLIMA's privately-owned predecessor) initial financial
problems; these were resolved during project execution. Performance during
project execution was good. The project's economic rate of return was above
the 12 percent expected, primarily because of the increase in oil prices in
1973. The report also noted that the project did not sufficieutly address
sectoral weaknesses.
Bank Strategy
56.       The Bank's present strategy for the sector focuses on (i)
strengthening the management and organization of the sector; (ii) supporting
the process of regionalization; (iii) promoting the improvement of sector
finances and the introduction of rational tariff policies; and (iv)
supporting the preparation and execution of hydroelectric projects which are
economically justified and will result in oil savings. The proposed project
would promote the first three of the above listed objectives.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
57.       The proposed project was identified by Bank staff in October 1984
during the supervision of Loans 2018-PE and 2179-PE.  Field appraisal took
place in late January/early February 1985, preceded by a preparation mission
by an individual consultant in early January. Negotiations were held in
Washington from May 20 to May 24, 1985; the Peruvian delegation was led by
Mr. Javier Abugattas Fatule, Director of Public Credit. Special Conditions
of the project are included in Annex III.
Project Objectives
58.       The proposed project is designed to support the process of
regionalization, which the Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
both support. The main objective of the project is to improve the efficiency
of the sector by providing assistance to the regional utilities to address
those areas where they are facing the most pressing problems: distribution
losses, high frequency of outages, inadequate collection procedures, an
inadequate inventory of generation alternatives to meet regional market
needs, and needs to purchase equipment critical to adequate system operation.
59.       The process of regionalization will improve the efficiency of the
electricity services by providing a local structure to deal with problems of
a local nature and by making management more responsive to local needs. Were
ELECTROPERU to continue being responsible for local operations a radical
transformation of its cumbersome structure would have to take place. It is
unlikely that this could be achieved in a few years.
60.       The proposed project can help improve the very poor image of the
public electricity service at the outset of the regionalization process. The
newly-formed regional companies need to improve their external image through
better quality of service. Improved service could help ease the political
tensions which may result from the tariff increases that the sector requires.
Project Description
61.       The project consists of the following components:
(i) studies to improve the administrative systems and commercial
operations of the regional utilities, including customer service;
(ii) studies to identify the causes of high transmission and
distribution losses, poor system reliability and inadequate safety
standards, and to propose measures for system rehabilitation;
(iii)   distribution planning studies;
(iv) a study to develop performance indicators and performance targets,
and to identify the measures needed to achieve such targets;
(v) consultant services to review the current tariff structure and make
recommendations for the implementation of the necessary
adjustments.



- 16 -
(vi)   studies to identify and/or bring to a feasibility level generation
projects to meet regional market requirements or replace oil-based
generation; 4/
(vii) studies for regional load-dispatch centers;
(viii)   studies of communications systems;
(ix)   the purchase of maintenance equipment, including vehicles;
(x) the purchase and installation of microcomputers and accessories;
(xi)   the purchase and installation of equipment for communications;
(xii)   the purchase of high-priority system components and parts;
(xiii)   the purchase and installation of laboratory equipment.
62.       Annex V presents the goods to be procured and studies to be
undert.ken, with an estimate of price.  They were selected to be included in
the project on the basis of a joint evaluation by the Bank and the regional
utilities management of the most urgent needs of the utilities. It was
agreed that equipment that would have a high return in terms of revenues and
service quality was that associated with loss reduction, improvement of
billing and collection, increase of generation capacity and reduction of
service restoration time. On the basis of these objectives, the following
classes of equipment would be first priorities:
(i) Instruments necessary to carry-out the diagnostic phase of a loss
reduction program and to provide a laboratory with high standard
calibration means;
(ii)   computer systems for billing and general use (administrative and
technical);
(iii) parts for diesel group rehabilitation in areas with insufficient
generation capacity;
(iv)   vehicles for operation and maintenance personnel and trucks
especially equipped for discribution network maintenance/
repair; and
(v)   communication system equipment.
63.       The training needs of the regional utilities are not part of this
project; they have been taken into account by ELECTROPERU in designing a
sector training program which is being financed through loan 2179-PE.
Implementation of this program is now starting.
Project Cost and Financing
64.       The cost estimate for the project is as follows:
4/ The studies would complement those being carried out under Loan 2018-PE,
which are mostly for larger projects.



- 17 -
Project Cost
(in US$ thousands)
Local Cost    Foreign Cost         Total
Studies                             4,170         4,835              9,005
Maintenance equipment               1,610          2,010             3,620
Communication and computing
equipment, system components
and parts                         2,130         2,375              4,505
Laboratory equipment                  790          1,130              1,920
Sub-total                           8,700        10,350             19,050
Physical contingencies                870          1,035             1,905
Price Contingencies                 1,730         2,115              3,845
Total                          11,300        13,500             24,800
65.       Base costs are as of December 1984.  The base cost estimates are
considered to be conservative, consequently a ten percent allowance for
physical contingencies seems adequate.  Price contingencies assume the
following inflation rates:  1985 5.0 percent; 1986 7.5 percent; 1987-90
8 percent.  The proposed US$13.5 million Bank loan would finance the full
foreign cost. The regional utilities would finance the local cost component,
which includes some US$3.2 million in taxes and customs duties, and interest
during project implementation.
The Borrower and the Beneficiaries
66.        The Borrower of the proposed loan would be Empresa Electricidad
del Peru S.A. (ELECTROPERU), an autonomous agency of the Peruvian Government
which owns the Government's shares in the regional power utilities. As a
holding company, it appoints the Boards of Directors and supervises the
operations of the regional utilities, approves their annual budgets, and
channels to them external funds. In addition, ELECTROPERU is responsible for
sector planning at the national level, establishes standards for electricity
service, carries out research, operates multiregional hydroelectric projects
and transmission lines, and is responsible for construction of large
multiregional generation projects. It would on-lend the proceeds of the loan
to the participating regional companies on the same terms and conditions as
the Bank loan (Sections 3.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement and 2.04 of the
draft Project Agreement). The foreign exchange and interest risks will be
borne by the beneficiaries. The execution of satisfactory subsidiary
agreements between ELECTROPERU and each of the regional companies would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (Section 7.01 (a) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
67.        The project would be implemented by the following regional
companies:  Electro-Sur-Oeste, Electro-Norte, Electro-Sur-Medio,
Electro-Centro, Electro-Oriente, Electro Sur-Este, Electro-Norte-Medio
Hidrandina, and Electro-Sur. They were all established between late 198 and
early 1985. Electro-Sur's corporate registration is pending and is expected
to be completed in the very near future. Formal creation of the company will
be required beiore loan signing. However, if this is not done by November
20, 1985, the loan amount would be reduced by US$850,000 and Electro-Sur
removed from the project. The areas served by each of the regional companies
are shown in the map included in this report. Additional information on the
services provided by each company is found in Annex VI and the specific goods



- 18 -
to be procured and studies to be undertaken by each company are detailed in
Annex V (para. 62). The studies referred to in para. 61(iv and v) would be
implemented by ELECTROPERU (Section 3.01 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
To assist the regional companies in the preparation of terms of reference,
and to supervise project execution, ELECTROPERU would establish a project
coordinating unit. A condition of loan effectiveness is that the
coordinating unit has been established in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 7.01 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
68.       The allocation of the proposed loan proceeds to the beneficiaries
would be as follows: Electro-Sur-Oeste US$600,000; Electro-Norte
US$1,950,000; Electro-Sur-Media US$1,400,000; Electro-Centro US$2,200,000;
Electro-Oriente US$1,200,000; Electro-Sur-Este US$1,950,000; Hidrandina
US$2,950,000 and Electro-Sur US$850,000. About US$400,000 would be used by
ELECTROPERU to finance the studies described in para. 61(iv and v) and the
purchase of microcomputer and laboratory equipment.
69.        The beneficiaries are organized as corporations, and are governed
by Peru's Corporation Law and by the 1982 Electricity Law and its
regulations. At least 90 percent of their shares are to be always owned by
the Government, through ELECTROPERU. They are responsible for providing
electricity service and for constructing generation projects of local
interest.
70.        In general, it may be said that the regional utilities face the
following common problems:
(a)   generation difficulties, which are in large part due to past poor
maintenance;
(b)   inadequate stocks of spare parts, due to financial constraints;
(c)   slow project execution, due too to financial constraints;
(d)   weak transmission networks;
(e)   old and poorly-maintained distribution systems;
(f)   generally poor quality of supply, poor customer service and
inefficient administration.
71.       ELECTROLIMA was excluded from the proposed project because its
needs are being addressed by current loans 2018-PE and 2179-PE.
Procurement and Disbursements
72.       The services and goods to be procured under this project comprise
studies and a large number of equipment purchases, each of which is of
relatively small-value. The regional utilities would carry-out the
procurement by themselves. However, since there may be cases where due to
the similar nature of the goods to be procured advantage could be derived
from packaging, the regional companies would establish a gi up to
coordinate procurement and arrange purchase-pooling (Section 2.06(b) of the
draft Project Agreement).



- 19 -
73.       It is estimated that about half of the cost of the studies would be
related to transmission and-distribution system rehabilitation and
expansion. It is important that the recommendations arising from these
studies are consistent and do not jeopardize the achievement of
standardization. At negotiations, understanding was reached that a single
consultant should be utilized to carry-out these studies to assure meeting
that objective. As a condition of loan effectiveness, the regional companies
would establish a coordinating group to prepare terms of reference for,
select and subsequently supervise the consultant (Sections 2.06 (a) of the
draft Project Agreement and 7.01 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
74.       The procurement of goods will be mainly through limited
international bidding (LIB). LIB is appropriate because of the diverse
nature of the items to be procured and the relatively small amounts to be
purchased of each item. In the event that the utilities decide to combine
their procurement for items such as vehicles and communication equipment, a
few lots could exceed US$400,000. If this is the case, ICB will be used.
International and local shopping as well as direct contracting would be also
used for the procurement of off-the-shelf items of small value (less than
US$20,000); the total amount of purchases under these procedures would not
exceed US$700,000 and direct contracting would be limited to US$400,000 of
that total. (Schedule to the draft Project Agreement).
75.       The proposed loan would be disbursed as follows:
(a)   100% of expenditures for consultant's services;
(b)   100% of foreign expenditures for goods and 70% of local
expenditures, in case of purchase of locally manufactured goods.
Disbursements would be fully documented. Disbursements for local
expenditures may be based on statements of expenditure. Such statements
would be subject to review and audit by the Bank. A disbursement period of
four years has been estimated based upon the project implementation schedule
(Annex VII) and the Bank's experience in projects with Peru. It is expected
that the project will be completed by December 31, 1989 and the closing date
would be set at June 30, 1990. To assist ELECTROPERU and the beneficiaries
the Bank would prepare a first draft of the terms-of-reference for the
transmission and distribution studies included in the project.
76.       To speed-up disbursements, a special account would be established
of tip to an amount of US$1.0 million. This would reduce the exposure to
inflation of suppliers, and consequently is expected to result in lower
project costs.
Benefits and Risks
77.       The proposed loan would make a contribution to the power sector by
assisting the Government in its strategy of regionalization to improve sector
efficiency. The regional utilities would incorporate equipment and parts
which are critical to viable system operation and maintenance. They would
also develop an adequate planning framework for the distribution system and



- 20 -
establish design criteria to upgrade it, reducing losses and improving
operations safety, reliability and efficiency. The improvement of the
billing and collection procedures should be reflected in a better cash
position.
78.       The principal risks facing the project arise from the relative lack
of experience and, in some cases, weak management of the beneficiaries. To
reduce these risks, ELECTROPERU's managerial coordinating unit, formed by a
few senior staff, would assist the regional utilities to overcome the
problems arising from their new responsibilities (para. 67). Besides this
general role, the unit would assist in the preparation and review of
terms-of-reference for the studies in the project and would supervise project
implementation. The Bank will facilitate project implementation by providing
assistance in drafting terms-of-reference for some of the studies included in
the project. The project poses no environmental risks; on the contrary, by
improving the safety of some transmission and distribution installations, it
will reduce environmental risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and ELECTROPERU, the
draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Beneficiaries, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Peru and the Bank and the Report
and Recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors.
80.       The main features of the draft Loan, Project and Guarantee
Agreements are referred to in the text and listed in Annex III. Special
conditions of effectiveness would be that the subsidiary loan agreements have
been executed, that the Coordinating Group and Unit have been established and
that the Loan Agreement has been registered with the Government's Office of
Public Credit (Section 7.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). A condition of
loan signing would be the formal legal creation of Electro-Sur, but if that
company is not created by November 20, 1985, the loan amount would be reduced
by US$850,000 and Electro-Sur removed from the project.
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
82.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
June 13, 1985



_ 21._
AM1
tScLL                                        lag  2. o
et ~~~"T norw XS&"
Rom;                   iu m*             c au.
TOIL                              12035.2     1285.S      1283.2
Acem9CULTLC                        3020.1      39p.3      305.2
US CNIS (US)                      230.0       S4.O       1170.0            2066.2                   2451.0
cmaSAN9 OF COIL * U      BYREIT    423.0      707.0       337.0             1407.6                   Ismt
,nTt  S SKI sUSmi
reOLruaION.NI-fa(I   Raw)   9605.0    12833.0    17031.0
r3M NOLATION CI OP TOTLS)           *.3        39.35       63.9               65.9                    47.8
FOPILATlO M WOMCTIUI3
POFULIAftO  IN WEaR 2000 (ILL)                           26.3
STATZONIR  POPULAtION (WIL)                               30.0
WEAR 5TAYIOtS POP. 7rucm                                2110
FOFULATZOU OrESITT
PE  S. a.                          7.3        10.0       12.9               33.6                    1.0,
FER SQ. B. ACE?. LW               321.6      4.9 3*.2                       92.*2                  157.2
POPLtATIOM    .  mTucn.n (S)
0-14  ES                         42.6        LA.3       42.4               40.1                    21.4
11-" Yf1i                        s3.0        31.7        34.1               33.8                    30.9
*5 AIM ASOVE                       1.4         3.9        2.5                4.1                     7.2
POPULATION QCO' RATEn (1)
TOrAL                              2.1         2.S         2.6               2.3                      1.1
URBAN                              1.2         1.2        2.3                3.7                      3.4
CUDE  ltrIT  RATE CFEt TS)          rs5.35     41.5        36.3               21.3                    23.0
CRUDE ThEA1N RATE 1PER TrO2)        13.]        14.        tl.1                6.1                     9.1
CR005 EEPRIJCTON RATE                3.2         3.0        2D.                2.0                     1.1
raILT FLAItNC
ACCePTorS. ANNUAL rYTOUS)
251tS (C OF PARRIS  OMOS)           . -        ...
mm AMInm
1lD03 or mm0 PRIOO. ER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      9n.0       102.0        37.0              113.0                   100
E  CWTA  SUP.Y OF
CALORZES CI Ofr aQUIRUEENTS3     103.0       102.0        99.0             ii:.)                    13.0
PROTINCS (G1AE PIR 0AY)            7.0       63.0        60.0               67.9                    9.2
or  NCN AAL 4U PuSE              29.0        26.0        23.O/c            24.1                     34.1
auLD CAmS 1-43 01*T5 SATE           37.9       2'0.2         3.9               5.3                     10.0
,a'
LW! EICT. AT UtRTS (TEAS)           47.3        13.4        37.9              64.6                     67.2
tWIAXT NOT. RATE (FIR TWUOS)       L2.1       119.7        63.4               62.4                    71.4
ACCESS TO SAP! WATER CMFO)
rotAL                             t.6         33.0       46. 3/1            64.5
CREAM                             30.2        36.0        GO.fd7l-          77.8
RURAL                              0.6         8.0        23.07             "4.3.
ACCESS O IXCETA D157FOSAL
Ci or voPILAT?ON)
TOTAL                               ..        36.0        34.0/d            14.6
RIAN..                                        22.0        st.O71            69.8
RuL                                 ..        1_..0        ..               29.3 
FOPUATION FEB PtSCIAX             1910.0      LS10.0     1290.0             1170.0                  10t4.6
FO. PER MSING PERSON              2210.0/f    720.0       6n0.0/d           1012.2                   762.s
FOP. Fr MosPTAL IC
TOTAL                            400.0       430.0       520.0/c           477.0                    334.
guJm                             210.0/r     320.0      &00.07-            667. s                  216.0
RURAL                               .       2500.0      got@.d7           1321.6L.
AlSIISSIO  FIR HOSPITAL ED            ..        19.        23.0/c             27.2                    20.0
1=c
AVERUA  StZE OS M1ME05Q
ToraL                              4.9         4.of
una                                0-3         *9
RULtA                              4.9         4Ij          *
AVEtJZ No. OF ersONrO
TrtAL                              2.
U1na                               2.0         1.7..
1135L                              2.7         2.&
a5s  TO 'LCC. CZ OS 05C.LZSM)
MAL                               26.0        32.0 
an"                               so3. 7      3.                               ..
RUAM.                              4.2        32.7



- 22.-
r  *     A >                             Page 2 of 6
mm                                         -    juv w tw aasi p
SW?                      (tS  SM? U?3SAI n
974   9 1- uuuTa     ta. unCa a cam                 mm
,DN551  IOaLUCET tATIOS
niaRY:    WaL                     111.0     WM    112.0 ilL0                                       'U2.2
.ILE                   Vs10 113               17.0                  S                   107.2
TILE                   7t.0        97.0      106.0              103.5                    97.9
SCCONDART- TrTA.                  15.0       30.0        54.0               40.0                    56.5
NILE                   13.0        15.0        60.0              33.1                    us.4
1ULE                   13.0       216.0        53.0              1.2                    4.9
V0CATIOSL (E OF SECOOS3)            13.9       17.1        IS.Lid             36.0                    22.4
IUnSL-TUat RTIO
PRIMA"                            24.0       35.0        29.0               30.7                    24.7
sc,uaw                            12.0       17.0       2l.0/d              16.7                    22.1
ADULT LITtIACF  At CZ)              61.0         .S        60.0               79.2                     9.7
paSiSEfR CASiTIou AND pop            3.2       18.0        t9.4/c            43.6                     52.9
ImaiO CEI IcRI25/TOUIAS  POP       113.3      141.7       16s.6             22C.2                    155.5
TV R1CCECCl1S/T1IVCAND PO            3.6       30.8        51.2              10-.]                   126.2
wCESP63 (t'DAILY CENC
tMnnrT) CtRCLATtOn
PER TlSAIPOPULATION                  ..       129.4       52.S/c             44.1                    96.2
CtNU  ADEUAL ATSUDAIEECAfPTA         6.7         ..          ..               2.9                      2.9
TOTAL LAUR FORCE (TWOIs5          3025.0     3710.0      5076.0
PALCE (CERCIET)                   2t.2       20.5        23.4               24.5                   3265
AQICILTUIC (PERCENT)              5t.5      4*.0         39.2                1.)J                   40.7
IICUSITY (PERCENT)                19.4       13.         1R.2               23.9                    23.4
PARTZCIPATtON ATC (ERtCENT)
TAL                               3 3.3      23.9        29.3               31.7                    43.0
-ALL                              43.4       451.        45.i.              69.3                    55.
FALa                              13.2       12.0        14.0               14.3                    29.1
ECODIIOC DENNOEZET XATIO             1.5        1.7         1.5                1.4                     0.9
INCOME DUIIIUWS
PERCENT or PRIVATE INCOlE
ZOIENST St OF NOSENILOS           39.0
NtE1OST 20t or NOUJEflDOS         14.4 a      1Oj.
tSWUT 20S oF HSE              tS 2.5          171 I
LOwEST 4OS OF NOUSELDS            3.0        7.0..
ESTNASTD AISOLUTE mVERTn IICU
L!VEL tUSS PCr CAPITA)
"SI"G                               ..          ,.      235.0/c            219.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE FOVERI? ItCUE
LE'JU. (CSS PER CAPITA)
CR4SA                               ..         ..       293.0/c            519.3
RUAL                                ..         ..       200.0o7c           2n2                     409.0
ESTtPATED POP. SELOW A5SOLUTE
POWR?? INCOME LEVE. (23
mum^A                               ..         ,.-.N ..                                               ..0/
RUtAL                               ..
10T AVWtLAtLE
-Or APR.LECAKLE
la The Sape.eroqea for each indlcator sea tdcrre towma-lghted aertlettc maim. Cawer  at fCeeouatm  m     els
tndlcatore dapeeda on awatlabIitty ot data ad La me ualtam.
!b Unloes otherwiae  eoted. -Dae for lfifr reter to gar ,aar beeoe_  1959 asS  MI1 'De. fee 1970o tamer  1969 aS
1971; and data for -faet Recast Cttlmte betoee 1979 sad L981.
/c I9'?; /d 1979: /e 1962: If 1966; !I 1972: lb Peremal Iacome stilcil late'? tfeo.
It,1U2



-23-                                                                          ANNEX I
Noe-a m  ae eman                                                                         Pags  3 -of  6
heart.  rbe  51maUe     or dimes egead.. a    IS hare.tsUNae ee1tstgaajar itlieongem  hesma sweetrisa
*mhjae  "ast    P sant3e  'mis4h amma  i  Islsaasvtarea ""Grs 'aid   liacm   se) a         ri. ad NtIk      t.   heL*   shams h.ea loo  .trasp " mea vin-ethe
earmamdim  mista Sus.  l asisinia  tsM  afatbr poblhmaa.me   t mmtp.1        m.OUI.t is merert*IsAIOal   b m-o the et    remelisstmm   eamaeames  mtea
tetmemad n.hJ ~       ~                                                                              It;N 6
Ystai e.rlmmatreof mae  esIqnlAaterepo"   n  koalIG                                                  -1 Peesi=   dwImmed hr   mehrii psalmle
at  ie  d5,    -mril1Wd4            d11wlmlolln                                                               rmgisae  diet  hr mmbt l kDlaal.      m
duake i -heiasos   gimirestual are   ese        w iqave   atsr p rasageits              a          eme   am g i 'Ullem, amiitlew  muse, PM,&"t  seve" ad
~iv piijE pmmm    sa K"     ml    hietemA  ame. aWm tie as.posta  teaw.                        Islasa o[isetlar.
5.. sUEsassy,  USts  se  serum   ttain..am aglem  emvhN  prm..                  mrsslitelol  petlitas -    rlsmm  inarat as m"mmtatimaa      P Baema  med
*tU U V    assents '.ebd -  aria eS"  1Lam (mle-mm sa.irmbtea                                         mama.  mim61Getet mrs smehitabegmst pmsamaat essllel
melt, a  lam  dams.  ~.-   S     :%V.. .1.                                     .ftm a         lMa'ModLht- isam  %mamNor mEaPt-.  he -diab.I.tras
~ jaflITes aat. ana -r    -Is   aarshoellitis  at oam                            ad ietrf ea. mets.  a barker -  Imajomr w.  ar .mm   he Is8tldd is
smes emastruiat  gal  tll  se%sm.dtmtes asld tes aeiiimttre  pargama.
cwf"l P"NLAI" P1mj-91ANAI` A.mssat  stssm  at rmareamt yr... qsj rrrtsleme
tatpapa.4    o af ad me as taeir .Ivtetesp mad Ilitlity                                   dssttiega. rs-rmmmeam.  bolittegm  wama  boas-eparesgr mrsmaeam  adl
..Pie. iftbom' seast, ad ImeAtAL lta . qesmey  .lbtim        a  ll                                 m dmtsasma.siist   i       arar        aat.
rmart.  lie  Weemes     ftar lstitmy sa     er al   m.. Roomr  INa.!                      a  tart-, ar'hem, med rerat de11attsa  rem-11msst
s bame dmatie  Is vmrsgtitrr as laN maim   tam. Ad ra.  LaI
tsmeaaal   etate   55isstl or madaw 1,001rasimaim   pmvpe.                            l     a
iieiiiiiiah.mm       ea  a. m lae rMP- diet me-P-mssla  thim..y -1titm1    smemi    'seW                                   y   ea -obo  stasaae  -  sasym
sasa hs steatm iae mtr sesd a  rmtmams   ea  tat                                       rts-r  eAmam-Wg reelmetmt eamirt istitis   aliia    a   -e1
rmesdemses rmaet,      maNN  a papatarima  mt. birth la. as ms.tastpea.   et o'dimmerd 1w tilrres   L-th.at r el snar dhiatma   la
arath re ta ears, Tm  I.atmeiry smptalmra, aims -   amsteoara   rimmtm                              ma ppta at  m.. 1 -   mhm Wbrim alliata.l maet ma..
sem,La   stetat at  flsmit'.11.21.v ts  rt.. pr.re.a,t.a Iae.em.  .   at.                                    ' m  in. ta  rar   l msas st1errt bteastatam
MM     od.t  - Ia mm_ ra r  ra  pemmtaaatth _..  am-   se.pste  asve.  sttmai*  r.am,ms rrmtmtd ePs..-"a tfaa
a, ea mIer mma  erssmm   tammo     teaV.I smrb   mIst Wb                             amatas id att1dma.
stetarsmiaasar  gaetemas  e a    tmelma mssm  s. boomires,                        Poisatmam -amltet st tiAtrat st M.hor .Itm  'set. am -ta
she smmsea Sims  alstttrrtm-ma a   var atmme  tatst.  ra at3INmm_deI, abt adertmm   laasv   aiemm
aemad,  Ill  am.teat-atchasrassin.tem lL.aSmt.ar                                                                         L-tea  Laat   ssma1r
.121-t. -toltimba" PoINNIMIAN 2. tstimarjad aPeaAartttAmimjitlaWlsmt.ss it..tar  irgsh
.lzt.JE     5Wintrapt t ea11t    551 arit  tim esr L-te  tmsasa  ma,                       r-1-arse altr  t AmePS.,             ---7  -ftt i
l5tl, thIS, ad mimi Sins..                              mats~~~~~~~~.  iadrr  .... tasee M.   ieae   ei  rt I-Oro seSsdsat)m
~L- rgsteea  jad-  Pa.,d      as  1w marttatls.   a cia ai- of                  re Anme   Iraft.sm    el    mmiamnI  e.  a   as
"Irslmre.  - "                                                                          Pa.si"bit.-ta  marat. e-tl-m-e) ret
sa Me.ler  adPmmvi -   ra-tma   .              L--am                                          M      V5grp~iasda .t:.rIs-  raaW   mt.-   adesmcer
raeatatrt -  oftfrtad            -er      sa!asshrt.e titmd-slir
smarrltasim [ sM      iOd,ta- *sisl-t                 a.  fo    mI                        4 5Etteear  (rtrm      m       -a.,  masee     t   rr        eer   a   at
L-   P.. IftiabO) -         Is abl arelstms.mta,M            _                i.sMaryms   meaeae   erl  vtr.e                mgtsts .ta
rmsatm3~~Gtsah 7u4.trci!~~~e  mere-el.                                 astlr~" Esmad remitsI aesrmeade ya                    a  rmteras  al rada
Csad. Pats be. Cst tslsmadimaeaa  darts rt stsmaa  at mad-a,        ft:m.rtsr teas-t rbadps.mtartsat  .- 15  tm         .sr  litbeaem 
VWpaseesas iALI,N t9ai.a   meatd jam2da.7                                                   mm.Al Uhttra  mamaa.rtaam                  asja lcedmrttar
Ssm.Sa~1eiJe3a- As-raZ semha                                                                       Nodtbasa   a   5!sa.-i  eem    sAr tssA N at,  'emras .rW  tas. -d ms atlas
larlies feastasttytIm-pat, mat. adesa e  i.e.  eas  -s s.Lrm - .d1. dat   aac  etsa   -ar I                                              taV          prmta
iCC                                                                                seisari  jaeea resatt   a  rtedle Kratam. C__tsame"re
faitilty Natal  -issa em.da - Lastsee a ".tm-a tatt1  sr05 aI-lo.                                               ate.- s  5Mm.  sa       ea
Loleta.                                                                                     mitis.m      tj ars  P'ha lear. enl Lce     spdm ieti-s dat-I  ste m-
rs.crmalsr a   tarsal rearassleta em at eatriad as    Sesa atiwa .   rts        I.
.M= 0al -  .. d-11'   -     '" Is-".ppaata a  itl.m.   rtmett-                                                  atnstaetis  a.I
Ima etie menetter                                                       tassates~~~~~~~~~~".11-tm  Ia,5t5a  Ibmi jam.-1
llflZiii!d   ras  seapetTarsa cisi~meItj -inC. a~ma.sarea        tme a      as-beat  emer 'Ime- 5eaae5Amlara  tar, Crat
aslssa ad as-"ar   sabdd.nmaaarane    lmt  a.r   a                                           !i~ip.7ra                   mlraaea  am tItar Fern; 5ma. m
hemS Ad earlm -at       Iava smmm  pses . Laaitat . see-at  seas. as  lam                   ted iee j
esaw  agtiae  -5serstaatateIi                                1er7 5r d rat.,as              varm JIarea   lrsl   -aa   ls!   atai   i.m   revaatsr
mmrma-t.s . a    ronmr   ase.m.es,me   atdaasa  ed  aae                                       airtt    a-   sraems  , -P"tatea.asMEint amsaC 
5eastitea  eed I  taS   meamem, t.   siac  Is dervlh rm.hsv-                 tepat  ms,trere  tr -'tea amma -asf-e-~.t   .   1    -    Pt
..P-aa.      etssa   r s  batd      sspsalacmlami  1m  -set                                peaifljpt             ye     asea -aamt            - mdm  5- meAlaiitr
-AsLtr -yta    mL.h It-lsttW      aet.mri  sresat,  al  alna.                               rsmmameasaitas                Am. mn   ieI
a    d  a   tmsrteta by    sstsste m .d asase 5 raras -In ,as.IM 
at remintssmd tants  tWI-l~ lets as sam jesa.           sasc gewtrn5.Iy
.r,otbama    at me1 arm - atms  ysaI   pe fdt- e-Idr er- vasel  e
at mesat  et.m   -  am  ear   v.  -aaId, rrrm-i te te  I. she                               .ted be sestl.s51  aetraedrsm   sal
data.                                                          m5ttrdttfr,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M W L                            Zo,
o assl-p 5-a vs1-tm  Sm etadr. Isblim mWae  r.   tar ass18 darlsma                          ma-I   K- raete    etIW  team  tet     m--rl   etmrna  -  tp
Ietme mh.amr mare tb a  ebed se-I'  -1  ..,bi i-arm     .5 mear         a
rerm e    e  samd Is   lae   sn    asadsa   at
dtmas  lgls,  na lem all s       - arltm   -  rst   re.  draa 
P.-e    "' m -smrt r1tts  -a-tm, a nttaIrs- t          dsala l maas  ta-esI.rsme s-ssmCbem                                                                           am
asa hssr teom  srsraa  s-isrsr        ertdta                                                                            aaeta-tm   e aeersnsbr,sa
,L.tttedeasma       h   se   aessdtrinaa,-tit.m.                                                                                             ..sn



apea         18.2 I uLUi  (' 19(3)                                                                                    1        6
oPMCk   u  wdi UN I    a                        -  24  -
(Ouutnt 19t 3 him)
nidicstw               KO1iSm of                                      A-ul               btiitw
9g"             1960   19U      192    19O3    1914
own Pedt  MtAMM                      i10m.T               3.6    3.9    0.4  -10.9    4.
brlxlba                              1.557.6           -5.5   10.7    2.1  -11.2   14.7
lwauy  & Hhna                     7,56Ls              5.6    0.5    0.1  -14.3       4.2
&mmicm                              9,197.6             4.4    4.3    0.6   -7.9        2.7
0mqti9                                153J63.8            7.6    3.9    0.4  -10.0        1.0
Qowm b Jrm_t                          2,699.1            39.8   17.0  -15.1  -5L2        12.9
OEf c                          3,811.3           -14      -6.8   13.1  -12.3       5.5
1qnte of an                           3,097.1            42.6    6.6   -6.2  -25.0  -15
(am   htiml She                       2375.2             -3.0   -22.0  -21.0  -22.0    52.0
*3 Def1eb    (1901m0)                                   100.0  16.3  =262    55.0 1,19.4
b.rqin bDpg pean (him/S)                                2J8.9  422.3  697.6 1,62.6 3,466.9
ei  Of ar St kiAet ftim (1)                             A      Aml lwm   (1)
(at  =mut Pticmo) lb                              (at cm#tt pLcm)
1970    1975   1960    19      1990                       970-74 197540 1960-9  1995-90
_tie Pbeadt                                                                                       4.5    1.6   -1.6       4.3
Aim1 _tm                                 16.4   13.9    8.5    8.3    9.1                            -1.0    0.3    1.9       5.0
7imk  Y4hDi3                             34A3   319    43.5   40.2   36.7                             5.5    2.1   -3.6      3.9
s&vim                                    48.3    52.2   48.0.   51.5   43.5                          6.1    1.8   .0.9       4.6
(     _umd                               83.1    89.0   79.0   81.8   81.5                            5.3    1.7   -2.       4.3
Qt_ lbinot                               13.3    19.6   17.0   14.4   16.0                           17.4   -7.1    4.9      6.3
ape of an                                17.6    10.8   23.    20.3   24.0                           -7.8    6.5    -.6      2.B
t=0 of Q25                               14.0    19.5   19A    16.5   21.5                           8.0   -3.5  -1L9        3B
;o Waimm  Simmi                          15.9    9.6    1.1   12.6   14.B                            -1.6    17.2  -10.9    9.6
Amea Z of CU
1975   1960    1963
BEZ  FnI         /c
OwMM  tk                                                 32.0   48.2   48.6
Oznt mw tibc_                                            32.0   45.5   51.0
O&xt          S n  C1 or DefLi (-)                       0.0    2.7   -2.A
Caita1 ;uuditum                                          8.6    7.5    9.3
ibmin Fiaudim                                             4.5    1.1    6.1
1970-75 197540  19S0.84 19B540
GM         M   Z)                                         4.5    1.6   -1.6    4.3
up ar ciE         hva  (Z)                                1.7   -1.0    4.2       L8
lax                                                       3.3    7.5    n..    3.4
mmaibgirnul S.dure BAtN                                  -0.0   -0.7    n.e.    0.3
rT Iintcity                                               1.8   -2.2      7.4    0.9
/. A   t       m rc: aqm i. 'mdl llut a84 due to ox2unSm of iqart &ibi..
lb  7mb at intit rbm..
IC /,1idetd EA1i Sectw.
a.e. noL in99bC



kpataa l    L2 urn  I o odd. M1                 -    25    -                                                      _
U  w  awiaa  US LW (16)
-  , _,.        ._
Ammi ah nao   ()
(ha o         1930 MMm)
1ad1rn~t , owmo
le-1961   l9U                          133    196
L D3
Ngdjia  Dow=                           3147.1           -U.7   -7.1    14.1  -15.5   1LS
1ho                                   2f.             -11.2   -7.1   1LII  -10.6        6.0
m_dwi                                  75.3            -13.6   -7.1    22.3  -33O    40.9
Noeh1 aa bYut                           241.6            45.5   2B.8   -0.7   -5A    -12.1
Fbad                                   25.8            69JA   24.5  -2.5    20.5  -23.1
Sam1m                                  67.8            13.3  -19.5    72.6   127.5       3.1
1N    7 r d        t t                 771.0            60.1   40.0   -1.5  -3.1  -156
ctd                                   1301.2            31.5    22.9    5.8  -29.9   -3.1
3him lA.                                          10.0    h.3    79.3 29    .3    80.1
T=t Pim e                                               1Am.0o   95.6    9       92.5    93.9
2b   Of TM" l.                                          100.0   93.4   84.3    93.2    85J
a*-udta of Nadma. ?a& (V)                    b_   .1 latrnrn CI)
(InO aOwr   O)                       (in Inutmt 10 MS)
1970    1975    190    1961    1990         197-74 1975-79 19UDO  1915-90
100.0   1.o   1o   100.0  100.0                -7.3    11.1   -0.3      2.1
,zy                    95.7   9L2   7NA                           76.9   66.6            4.6      7.7   -0        0.7
-                                3.3     7.2    21.6    23.1   31.4            15.7   41.0   -0.6    8.0
100.;   100.0  100.0   100.0  1000              U1.5   -5A .    6.4     3.6
-d                                       9.9    12.9   13.5    11.9    8.0               85    -4.8    6A      -3.1
FMZolm                                   1.4    11.0     OA      2.8    2.9             57.1  -50    45.2    4.3
1b!hny u1  l1uiot                       26.7    3L8    351    31.6   3.9                17.    -4.9   -9.6      6.3
0tXb                                    62.0   43.3    5L0    536   52.2                 3.7   -0.5   -5.5      3.2
9eK. of _Mc  uib                am& of Zak with                   Sw at nea sub
DnW  Q m2c                                    inualng  t  tiae )            nEMIpitl cinai. CZ)          CqaOil ample Oil k         C(Z)
1970    1975   1930             1970    1975    199D           1970    1975    1910
otS                                       814.1   58.6   65.9              8.9    23.0   28.6              0.5     1.0     1.4
77.3    76.9   79.7            20.6    168    16.4               LO     4.6     0.9



- 26 -
AME I
bpo1- tin:  18.2 ulIlim  W    1983)                                                                    14 6 o 6
aPs C ritm: DSS 1I (1993)
n - MANZ W MUI UMSL ABU== A   r
(adiams of aumm WU
AcU,al          lbdE.    PLjeEi
1930    1911      L   19n  193     1           1990
IM1AIS Q9 P UI
of Seoie  & Iaercm                      4630    4019    4077    37m         3817          912
Of %Weh: 1brdwiau   90                       3916    32W       3293    3015    3147            72M5
7qzaetu of  wb h&eq i                           4878    596       5853    4817    67              9671
Of wi*k   tmdim FM                           3090    3812    3721    2722    243               5577
Pat   M                                          147      161      167      219      155           278
OzeMt 1A1a BlDIe                                -101    -173    4609    471    -4                 -279
Dirae Priy.z luvinm    t                          27      125       48       38      89             BB
r  ama  (Ike)                                    435      523     11S5    1316      Im             869
OEficial                                       371      38B      995    1431      1436           591
Priute                                          64      135      157      45      -114           25S
Odo  C-dp                                        361      576      533    -552      -733          -3I6
Q=w in _muS (-mou.m)                            -m        501    -12         40    -2f8           -300
Ikt 3mm  a   c            of Ilyirt              2.9      1.2      1.6      0.3      1.6           3.9
P131s1Z 1M1 AND UO-            D
Ika.s    n     ;                                12X      1473    273       12
*Xffriciel                                      -        -        -        -
Gxczwinaa       loans                           230      ISI       91      172
IY.C                                           105       97       61      16
aWc                                             -        -        -        -
1U125   1         30       67
3m- mai lmu  1275                              100      1         92 i      5
Official ;ce Euit                              22D      103      15       2%
fI3                                            160       76       85       77
o      Niltilatmi                               58       71      123       78
Priate                                         5       1025    1617    1091
bEznmal 3me
Debt Oztatwineg & DiAuIuad                     5169     5977    6671    7932
offica                                        3157    3131    3158    3649
privte                                        3Q11    245    3713    4411
disbal    D                                    Z5       2501    3019    3091
Oft Seme                                                                 '
%tal Dbt l:ea Neinii                            15       1895    1578       754
nerst                                          5S4      52S      5f8      406
P    t  at Z of  iurt                           32.4    47.2    37.4       2L2
A   r.tKM,t RAW On NEW 10k_- ()          9.3    12.6    11.9        9.9
ficial                                         7.4      8.6      9.6      7.5
E*_vae                                        10.6    15.6    13.1       U.3
l ikhwity of N1 laws (Ter)                      12.2    11.8    103        11.6
EEidia                                        15.3    16.8    15.6    17.8
Priute                                        10.1      8.1      7.4      7.9
Bow: A doble dmb stads for 't awibleb.



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of March'31, 1985)
Amount
Loan                                                       (less cancellations)
Number     Year          Borrower            PLrpose        Bank    Undisbursed
--- US$ million-
33 loans fully disbursed                                     570.0
1196       1976    Republic of Peru       Transport          73.3         2.5
1403       1977    Republic of Peru       Agriculture        25.0         5.4
1771       1980    Republic of Peru       Irrigation         56.0        19.2
1806       1980    PETROPERIU             Petroleum Prod.    32.5         2.6
1812       1980    Republic of Peru       Rural Develop.      15.0        7.3
1888       1980    Republic of Peru       Preinvestment       7.5         3.2
S-19       1980    SIDERPERU              Technical Asst.      5.0        3.6
1963       1981    CORPAC                 Aviation           57.5        52.0
1968       1981    CDFIDE                 Industry           60.0        31.9
2018       1981    ELECTROPERU            Power              25.0        17.6
2064       1981    Central Reserve Bank  Industry            26.0        10.9
2091       1982    Republic of Peru       Transport          93.0        77.7
2117       1982    PETROPERU              Industry            5.3         2.7
2139       1982    SEDAPAL                Water Supply       40.6        33.7.
2150       1982    Republic of Peru       Agriculture        40.6        32.6
2179       1982    ELETROLIMA             Power              81.2        67.6
2195       1982    PETROPERU              Petroleum          81.2        73.5
2204       1982    Republic of Peru       Technical Asst.    10.2         1.7
2208       1982    Republic of Peru       Education          17.3        16.8
2211       1982    Republic of Peru       Health             33.5        31.8
2219       1982    Republic of Peru       Rural Develop.     30.0        18.6
2302       1983    Republic of Peru       Agriculture       130.0        85.7
2396       1984    Republic of Peru       Rural Develop.     40.0        38.8
2451       1985    Republic of Peru       Urban              82.5        82.5
2465       1985    Republic of Peru       Education          27.0        27.0
Total                                                1,664.2
of which has been repaid                             267.2
Total now outstanding                                1,397.0
Amount sold                          18.3
of which has been repaid           18.3                -
Total now held by Bank                               1,397.0
Total undisbursed                                                  746.9



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.    STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Type of
Year                Obligor                       Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1960        Industrias Reunidas, S.A.         Home Appliances   0.2        -       0.2
1960        Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.       Bricks             0.3       -      0.3
1960        Durisol del Peru, S.A.            Building
Materials          0.3      -       0.3
1960; 1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers           4.1      -       4.1
1962; 1968  Cemento Andino, S.A.              Cement              2.3     0.2      2.5
1964; 1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo         Cement              1.1     0.5      1.6
1975        Southern Peru Copper Corp.        Mining             15.0      -      15.0
1978/83     Cia. de Minas Buenaventura        Mining              6.0     0.5      6.5
1980        Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.              Mining             6.7      0.5     7.2
1981        Sogeviese                         Leasing             3.0     0.1      3.1
1981        Ccnsorcio Energetico de           Power
Huancavelica                    Transmission       4.5       -      4.5
1982        Palmas del Espino                 Palm Oil           15.0      -      15.0
1985       S. A. Minera Regina                Mining              5.0     0.2      5.2
Total gross commitments                             63.5      2.0    65.5
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            42.0     0.6    42.6
Total held by IFC                                   21.5      1.4    22.9
Total undisbursed incl.
participants' portion                             11.4     0.2    11.6



- 29 -
ANNEX III
PERU                Page  I of 2
POWER ENGINEERING II PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:   Approximately four months.
(b)  Project prepared by:               Bank staff, with the assistance of
ELECTROPERU and the Government.
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:  October 1984.
(d)  Appraisal mission:                 January/February 1985.
(e)  Completion of negotiations:        May 1985.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:   October 1985.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)       ELECTROPERU and the regional companies will seek monthly increases
of at least 2 percent from the Tariff Commission until the end of
1986 (para. 45).
(b)       Any change in the Electricity Law which would materially and
adversely affect the ability of the Tariff Commission to carry out
its duties under the Law would be considered an event of loan
default (para. 49).
(c)       ELECTROPERU will establish as a condition of loan effectiveness, a
project coordinating unit to assist the regional utilities in the
preparation of terms of reference for the studies in the project,
and to supervise project execution (para. 67).
(d)       The beneficiaries would, as a condition of loan effectiveness,
establish a group to coordinate the preparation of terms of
reference for, select and subsequently supervise a consultant to
perform transmission and distribution studies. (para. 73).
(e)       ELECTROPERU will engage consultants to carry out a study to develop
performance targets for the regional companies, and to identify the
measures needed to achiev- such targets. The study is expected to
be completed by December 31, 1986 (paras. 39, 61 and 67).



-30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(r)       A condicion of loan effectiveness would be the execution of
Subeidiary Loan Agreements between ELECTROPERU and the regional
companies (para. 66).
(g)       A condition of loan signing would be the formal legal creation of
Electro-Sur, and if that company is not created by November 20,
1985, the loan amount would be reduced by US$850,000 and
Electro-Sur removed from the project (para. 67).



PERU
POWER ENIINEERINI  11 PROJECT
CONSOLIOAIED INCOIIE STAIFNENTS FOR IHE SECTOR
I(fqures in millions of USSI
Foolnote
refarence  1914        1915      1956       19S1      1911       1919
sales II1hI                             la)         6000      6114       6524      7193       7115      e135       la)      Sales estimate Mae aijustei down
Average tariff IUlIcents/kuh)            Ibi         4.3        4.3       5.0       5.4        6.0       6.6                from 9042 *Mh in 1909 to 0135 ilk to
laoIs Rovenous                                     250.0    265.9    322.9        391.7      465.7    536.0                 reflect country's lowr ecenomic grouth
Vaxes an electricity consuaption    Ic)             41.1      49.6       60.2      73.0       O6.1      99.9                prospects. It asvumes a market grewth
_---- -----------------------------------------------         of 41 per year, and aism  that tbe
1o01l  Operating Revenues                          306.1    315.5       303.1    464.1 7    55.5    635.9                   utilities would incrpoerato the loads
of several large autoprsmucars.
Operating Costsl
Generation                                     40.0       41.6      43.3       45.0      46.6       40.7      fbl      tariffs shown assume snnthly Incroasse
Fuel                                            31.0      41.6      42.1       43.1      34.2       34.9               of 2.01 per moath above InSlatS., free
Trnasmission                                   13.9       15.6      16.2       16.9      17.5       11.2               July to Oecesber 1905l.fellm ued by IOI
Distrlbutlon                                   25.3       25.O      26.3       27.9      29.0       30.2               per year sbove snflatlue  in each of the
Adeinistratlon                                 61.7       70.4      73.2       16.2      79.2       S2.4               fohiouang years.
Depreciation 6 smortization                    61.0       10.0     111.0      143.2     617.0      110.1
Other                                           0.7        0.9       5.7        7.7       7.9        6.7      Icl      Represent* the part mf the ton en
---_-_----------------------------      ctricity consumption. which is paid
Uparating costs, total                             252.6    275.0    318.9    359.9          31l.7     403.9                by consumers, mhich Is retained bw the
lessi Operating Costs disallowed    Id)             22.7      21.1       20.1      32.4       30.5      23.3                sector to fued its needs.
AdJusted operating costs                           229.9    248.7    290.2    321.5          351.1     315.6       id)      Those are colts ubich the Comisimo  ie
------------------------------------------------------                      fIrifas has considered excessive  &ad
Operating Income                                   71.2        66.9      92.9     157.1      201.4     260.3                which are disallowed for rate setting
legua  financial Charges                            42.3      50.2       94.2    123.9       116.0     11.0                purposes. Forecasted as a proportlo
- ------------------------------------ ----------------                      of operating costs lieitially 91 but
Not Income froo Operations                          33.1       16.6      -1.3       13.2      15.4    142.3                 assumed to decrennoi  starting In 1t91,
Other income Inoil                                   0.2        0.2       0.2       0.2        0.2       0.2                by Hi per year        h ihe sources of
--------------- --------------------------------------                      inefficiency are ldantifieg and
Net Incore                                          34.1       16.1      -1.1       13.4      63.6     142.5                programs to improve oefficIncy are
.......... anus ... V-8-.............. &                                     a- a----||g-mplesentedl.
Rate ease                                         1426.6   1S62.5   2236.6   3067.9   3624.2   3317.6
Rate of Return (1)                                   5.3        4.0       4.2        4.5      5.6       h.1
*-.3--S B.- ......-.5s.3 U..... ...s..sU- 'flas... Fb..                                        C
Ph



PERU
*OUER ENGINEERINS 11 fROJECI
CONSOLIOAIEO SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS STA!ENENIS FR INHC SECTOR
if qures tn militons of US$I
IOURCES Of FUNDS                                194      195        1911     lie?      1901      1919
---------------------------              .     .................__._....___________---__-.--------r----~----- ---------   ---------
Operating mncds                                    76.2      11.1      92.9    137.1    201.4    210.3          (Al      IncludeS coessmir cmribstis as_ *       11_ 
lesse Sieallowed operating cosls                  22.7      27.1       26.7      32.4      30.5      28.3               as cutlrshutimg          the -* v .ff    t.
Not operating Incoa&                              53.5       39.1      64.2     104.1     110.S    232.0       lb)      whose  ire *seios  otleoatidi .6gb  we
Other incoa.  fot)                                 0.2        0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2               lower than the  Siues. cuTestlw bhing
Depreclation and Asortiaation                     &u.0.    60.0    111.0    143.2         117.0    310.11               cessederd bo  Electrefp  biht s rcbh
Reserve for sell insurance                         0.0        0.0       2.5       3.5       3.        4.0               oN tog basis of the *masim_s tails
witk the hav.r.aegt ..mgd OW6611tIV G&W
gross Internal Cash Generation                   121.7    119.9    177.9    251.7    341.1    417.0                     *ari rea3stse5 esseedtially they
ioe  Debt Service                                                                                                       taveiwe a usee Vea  lol, is too stMt
Interest charged to income                    42.3      50.2      94.2    123.9    111.0    111.0                  of all New projects.
Aoorillation of principal                     77.4    115.3    160.7    115.1    119.1    230.1
----------~-------------------- -----------------------    Oct            Whoe. are duties accruod Not "I  pull
Total 0Dbt service                               119.7    65.5    254.9    269.1    285.1    146.1                     for accstnieg purposes they, we treated            '
-- ----------- ------------------------------ ---------             by the |ctr as part of project  eUt  
Not Internal Cash seneration                        2.0    -45.6    -71.0    -31.9         51.0      61.41e fueded by a 6Ow.ruut cr trilhtii_.
Equity Contributions                   lal        13.3    129.0    111.1         61.4      19.7      23.1
Borrowings                                                                                                     Iid      Ussuis instigate.
Erlating loans                               231.4    141.4       91.5      35.0      24.9        I.?
Nfo Loans                                      0.0    139.5    210.2    151.2    171.1    Ill.1
Total Borrowings                                 237.4    217.9    30J.1    191.2    201.7    111.4
tOtAL SOURCES                                    312.9   3;1.3    392.5    239.1    277.5    210.7
~~~~~........... ................., . ...
U6ES Of FUNDS
Investeent Proqraa                     fbi       290.9    323.7    421.5    212.3    330.9    233.4
lease cusuto  duties                   Icl        14.5      32.2    305.4         5.1     17.7       517.9
Not lovosteont Progr4a                           211.3    241.5    311.1    197.1    213.2    113.1
Interest luring Construction                      91.1    104.3       51.4       22.9      24.3      11.1
Mralias Capital                        (di         0.0       20.0      20.0      20.0      20.0      20.0
.... .       .      . . ........  .       ................R UU, ,S



PERU
POWER ENGINEERING II
List of Goods and Studies to be Procured
Estimated Prices In USS thousands as of December 1984
Electro-  Electro-  Electra-  Electra-   Electra-                   Electra-   Electra- Electro
TOTAL    Centro    Sur-Este  Nborte       Sur-4edlo  Oriente   lidrandina  Sur-Ceste  Sur           Peru
GOODS
1.    Maintenance Equipment
1.1   Tools and equlpments for a distribu-
tion transformer and motor
malntenance/repair shop.                    180         60                                           120
1.2   Mobile shops for diesel station pre-
ventive maintenance                         160         8o                                                      80
1.3   Instruments and equlpment for
diagnosis ot diesel stations                lO1         50                                                       50
1.4   Instruments and equipment tor dlagnosis
ot mini-hydro statlons                       35         33
1.5   Vehicles for O&M personnel
transportation                              170         130                                           40
1.6   Trucks especially equipped tor net-
work distribution maintenance             1,100         250                   100       250          100        150                      250
1.7   Equipment alds for maintenance
(telescopic ladders, selt-supporting
reserve towers, cranes, oll treatment                                                                                                                    I'c
equipment, underground cable fallure                                                                                                                      0
detector, motor pumps for Insulator                                                                                                                       w
cleanIng)                                   265                    130         90        45
Sub-total 1                         2,010         605        130        190        295         260        280           -          250



Laboratory Equipment
2.1   High-precislon calibration boards
for meters, resistors and electric
Instruments                                350          70        70                     70         70         70
2.2   Portable calibratlon sets for meters    300             70         30          80         80                    40
2.3   Electric and electronic Instruments         480         35         40         160        140          5         20                        10       70
Sub-total 2                         1,130         175        140        240        290         75        130            -           10       70
3.    System Components and Parts 1
3.1   Consumer and station meters                 265                    200         25                                                         40
3.2   Parts for diesel group rehabilitation   400                                   400
3.3   Generating station switchgear               130                                80                     50
3.4   Capacitors                                   45                                                                                           45
3.5   Statlonary units for radio-
communicatlon, facsimi e and data
transmission                                315         120        105         30         30          30
3.6   VHF repeating station equlpment             310         150        160
3.7   Mobile VHF units                            285          120       105          is        15          15                                  is
3.8   Computer sets for billing and
general use                                 625         200        100        100         50         100                                  50        25
Sub-total 3                         2,375         590        670        650         95         195         -            -          150        25
TOTAL FOR GOOS                     5,515       1,370        940      1,080        680         530        410           -          410        95
4.    Studies                                                                                                                                                     o
4.1   Improvement of administrative
systems and commerclal operations           450          50         90         90         90          90                                  40
4.2   Rehabilitation and expanslon
planning of transmission and
distributlon networks                    2,050          240        410        190       240          230       5eo                       160
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . -_



4.3   Performance Indicators                    135                                                                                                135
4.4   Taritt structure                           20                                                                                                 20
4.5   Onneratlon teasibillty                  1,740          20        40        100        20          80      1,160         300          20
4.6   Reglonal load dispatch centers            300                                                               150         150
4.7   Communicatlon systems                     140          20        20         40        20          20                                 20
TOTAL FOR STUDIES                 4,835         330        560       420        370        420      1,890         450         240       155
..U...       .....      .M...     .m...       s.        .....   &SEEMS.....                ..wa  mm...    ASS.
BASE LINE COST                         10,350       1,700     1,500      1,500     1,050         950     2,300          450        650       250
Physical Contingencles                  1,035         170       150        150       105          95       230           45         65        25
Cost with Physical Contingencies       11,385       1,870     1,650      1,650     1,155       1,045     2,530          495        715       275
Price Contingencies                     2,115         330       300        500       245         155       420          105        135       125
(and round-offs)                                                                                                                                      u'
TOTAL WITH CONTINGENCIES               13,500      2,200      1,950      1,950     1,400       1,200     2,950          600        850       400
I/ Includes Caomunicatlon and Computer equlpment.
0
Lot
1hh 
w



PERU
PRPOSED P1rER EWSItNEERlt4M, LOANII 1
Statistical lnforatlon on Rtglonel Utilties
ae ye r 1964
ELECTROLIUA                HINANDINA             Electro-Sur-I4ldlo  Electro-Swr-esto   Electro-Nrta          EleIro-Cmtro   EIeflo-S  -ftfe  ElIctrt-arlart   Eln re-S
Concession Are                Lim  (excludes        Ll_ (only Patlvilca        lea,                    Arequlpa        Tuabes, Plrs,      ocas"lI                 _I_e            Irte              Tar1
(States)                      Patlvilce district)  district), La Libertad,   itancavellca lpart)                      Labayeuo            Pain, Jata             Oln              SW ttl.           t e
Callao                Anessh, Cajaiiarca (pert) Ayacucho (pWt)                         CbJmrca (part)   ltnwalin (pat)   Pu..
Iujuca (part)                                                     Paxonas                                    ttu d  DWr
Populatlon (thousands)               5,102                    2,289                    594                702                1.781                2,401               2,081             7ff              m
Users (thousands)                      821                       119                    34                 76                  110                                       s 50             21             24
Installed Capcity (Ml /                112                      507                      9                 Ul                   4                                       n                s6              41
4If  hydro                           79                       63                     10                 f6                    2                   29                  54               -              94
Oerated Energy (NWR)                 2,427                    1,216                      9                329                  267                   S                  242              IS             204
17S hydro                            99                       94                     17                 54                    1                  41                  so                -             me
Sales Ith)ba                         4,065                      690                    144                257                  210                  112                 201               6             E
f   ELECYNOP E Ill I contInue owning and operating the Vuntaro hydroplent 179 tW  Installed, 3120 ONh   arated)s Ito direct esls to htgh l        olte  ladetrlal are m tS  to 414  t.
^   f                                                                               ,           *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



PERU
POWER ENGINEERING 11
Project Implementation Schedule
A. Goods
Technical I/        Bid 1/          Proposal         Bld            Contract    initiatlon
Specs              Document        Request         Opening          Signing          of
Preparatlon                                                      Del ivery
A.1     Maintenance
Equipment
A.1.1   Tools and Equipment
Flrst Lot              Existing              -          August 85        September 85    December 85   March 86
List Lot               June 87               -          September 87    October 87       January 88    April 88
A.1.2   Vehicles 2/
Shopping-
First Lot              Existing              -          August 85        November 85     February 86   May 86
Last Lot               October 85            -          December 85     February 86      May 86         August 86
ICB/LIB                July 86        September 86     December 86      March 87         June 87        September 87
WI



A.2      Laboratory
Equipment
Flrst Lot              Existing                -         August 85         September 8S    December 85       March 86
Last Lot              April 87                -          July 87           August 87        NDvember 87      February 88
A.3     System Components
and Parts
A.3.1   Communication
Equipment Z/
Shopping -
First Lot             Existing                -          August 85         September 85    December 85       March 86
Last Lot              March 87                -          April 87          July 87          October 87       March 88
ICB/LIB               April 87           June 87         September 87    December 87        March 88         August 88
A,3,2    Computer Equlpment 2/
Shopplng -
First Lot               Existing               -          August 85         September 85    December 85        February 86
Last Lot               December 85              -          January 85       February 85      May 85            July 85
ICB/LIB                December 85        March 86        June 86          August 86         November 86      January 87
A,5,3    Other Equipment and Parts
Flrst Lot               Existing                -         September 85    November 85        February 86      May 86
Last Lot                June 87                -          August 87         October 87       January 88       April 88
1/  Does not Include Bank analysis or approval.
2/ Two procurement alternatives are shown. Direct contracting for system components and parts would follow the
shopping pattern, ICB and LIT may occur In case of purchase pooling.
PI
De| 



.
B,  StudIes                            Terms of        Proposal    Proposal        Contract         Start          Interim       Termination
Reference       Request      (penInp        Signing        of Study        Report         of 5tudies
8.1    Dlstrlbutlon                          October 85    December 85   March 86         June 86         July 86       December 86    December 87
8,2    Generatlon Feasibility
B.2.1  Hidrandina                             November 85   February 86   May 86          August 86       October 86   August 87         April 88
8.2.2. Others                                February 86   May 86           August 86    November 86    January 87   September 87   February 88
B,3    Performance Indlcators                October 85    November 85   January 86   March 86            March 86           -           December 86
8.4    Tariff Structure                      October 85    November 85   January 86   March 86            March 86           -           October 86
8.5    Communication Systems                 November 85   January 86    March 86         May 86          May 86             -           September 86
9.6    Improvement of Administrative
Systems & Commerclal Operations    December 85   March 86           June 86       September 86   October 86          -           April 87
8,7    Reglonal Land Dlspatch Centers         November 85   January 86    April 86        June 86          July 86       January 87      June 87
01-i



IBRD 18878
.4.     . ..                                                                          ..   ,~                      4...,  ..
TUMsEj                  ~~~~P E R U                   1                     ;4          ! f         O 
REGIONAL ELECTRIC UTILITIES
P I U R A-\       -        I, 
PIURA       F          C\-' 
ELECIRO-NOR5Er.  a O                             OR   E  T O
rmaz
SAN  (ELECTRR-
A ARTIN   ORIEN>                                  B  R  A  Z I  L
LA LI1ERTAD                                                                                    r
TRUJIL10   :     \       X     s L  
ANCASH
mum~          HUANUCO S        1                   L         ,
PAERE  TRO.CENTRO
$LY(C ER RO  PAsp                                             I ECTRC-      T 
W-'~,S 'R''.c                                      _.,-
H~~~ - dooI\ SP 
Co -       J         U                       MADRE  DE DIOS
LIMA ~   ~      -SMLDNC
v   )  >    lw}               *--  * ~~~~~~~~~~~~PIRERW \0
ELECTROLIMA                                                    MAEL 'I
S Vicete di Cot o0            ACUC    C U Z   C 0 UZ
Regional Electric Utilities Boundaries                                      R       R  ESTE
v    A    \AP          E'CTRO  5R  ES-TE 
Rivers                                IbA                         I
*   Notional Capital                         C A               '
*   Deprtmnent Capitols                         SUR MEDIO                             P
O   Other Towns                                  SfR-QE STE                            a  >**
Department Boundaries                                                    I
.-  International Boundaries                                   A R E                                      C
d                            CN.OMEtERS                                                 AREQUIPAe                         _
0      IFO    200    300
6*LS-fdW    __*__ .|. 'F        _w_                                              k r TACNA SI
TACNA
57                                                                 7?7           I CHILE  ;.       op
APRIL ?985






