Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 11497
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
PERU
POWER ENGINEERING II PROJECT
(LOAN 2603-PE)
DECEMBER 28, 1992
Energy and Industry Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONL
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 28, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Note on Peru
Power Enxineering II Project (Loan 2603-PE)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Note on
Peru - Power Engineering II Project (Loan 2603-PE)" prepared by the Latin America
and Caribbean Regional Office in lieu of a Project Completion Report, as the
loan, though approved by the Board in 1986, was never signed. In November 1986,
the Borrower and the Bank agreed that the operation be withdrawn.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
PERU
POWER ENGINEERING II PROJECT
(Loan 2603-PE)
1.          This Note is in lieu of a Project Completion Report for the Power
Engineering II Project (Loan 2603-PE; US$ 13.5 million; 1985), and is based
on a desk review of project files and related documents and reports. This
Loan was never signed, and was withdrawn in November 1986.
Background
2.          The  Electricity  Law  of  1982  transferred  most  operating
responsibility to regional companies and left ELECTROPERU in charge of sector
planning, implementation of major generation works and operation of the
national transmission system.   This process of transferral (regionalizing
sector operations and responsibilities) received significant political support
during the period of project preparation (the Bank identified the project
during supervision of the Project Engineering Project, Loan 2018-PE and the
Sixth Power Project, Loan 2179-PE, in October 1984).  It also exposed the
weakness of ELECTROPERU's management and the urgent need of the regional
companies for technical assistance and training. To address these needs and
to support the process of regionalization, on July 2, 1985, the Bank approved
Loan 2603-PE, to Empresa Electricidad del Peru S.A. (ELECTROPERU), with the
guarantee of the Republic of Peru. However, as the project was not a priority
of the new Government that took office on July 28, 1985, the Borrower and the
Bank agreed to the withdrawal of the Loan in November 1986.
Proiect Concept
3.          The proposed project was part of a larger effort on the part of
the Bank to continue the dialogue with a country whose economy was
floundering.   The risk associated with lending to a country making only
irregular debt service payments to foreign creditors was not addressed in the
President's Report. However, given its stake in the country and the sector,
and given the benefits expected from maintaining a dialogue, the strategy of
the Bank -- using small projects as interim measures -- seemed reasonable.
Also, Bank management believed that the benefits of having a project ready for
the next Administration outweighed the risks of project rejection after its
election.
Prolect Objectives
4.          The main objectives of the project were to support the process of
regionalization and improve the efficiency of the sector, by:
(a)   strengthening the management and organization of the sector and
making it more responsive to local needs;



(b)   addressing  the utilities'  most  pressing  problems,  including
distribution losses, frequent outages, and inadequate billing and
collection procedures; and
(c)   improving sector finances, based on recommendation of studies to
be undertaken.
Project Description
5.          At appraisal, the project cost was estimated at US$ 24.8 million,
in December 1984 prices.   The Bank was to cover foreign costs, US$ 13.5
million. There were four major components: (a) studies 36.3% of total cost);
(b) maintenance equipment (14.6%); (c) communication and computing equipment,
and system components and parts (18.2%); and (d) laboratory equipment (7.7%).
The balance (23.2%) of the project costs consisted of physical and price
contingencies.
6.          The studies were to:
(i)   recommend improvements in the administrative systems, commercial
operations, and distribution planning of the regional companies;
(ii)   identify causes of high transmission and distribution losses,
inadequate safety standards and poor system reliability;
(iii)   develop performance indicators and performance targets;
(iv)   review the tariff structure, and recommend changes; and
(v)   bring regional generation projects to the feasibility level.
7.          The project was to be implemented by the regional utilities, under
the supervision of ELECTROPERU's managerial coordinating unit.   As the
Borrower, ELECTROPERU, the holding company of the regional power utilities,
was to on-lend the proceeds of the Loan, on the same terms and conditions as
the Bank Loan, to the participating regional companies: Electro-Sur-Oeste,
Electro-Norte, Electro-Sur-Medio, Hidrandina, and Electro-Sur. To implement
their respective projects, the regional companies were expected to select
jointly a single consultant to carry out the studies related to transmission
and distribution system rehabilitation and expansion. The regional companies
were also to establish a group to coordinate procurement.
Rational for Loan Cancellation
8.          Shortly after Loan approval, there was a change in Administration.
The new Government decided to review all commitments of the previous
Government,  thereby deferring Loan signing.   By 1986, the deteriorating
creditworthiness of Peru became an issue, making the Bank reluctant to sign
the Loan.
9.          Believing that the 1986 economic boom was unsustainable, The Bank
had fundamental reservations about Government economic policy. Moreover, in
May 1986, the Bank had suspended disbursements on the Sixth Power Project



(Loan 2179-PE) because of non-compliance with financial conditions.  Given
this situation and the apparent lack of interest on the part of the Government
in implementing the project, the Bank decided it was no longer appropriate to
keep open the option of signing the Loan.   In November 1986 a mission
communicated the Bank's concerns about the Loan to the Borrower and the
Government.  On November 25, 1986 the Government confirmed, via telex, its
agreement to withdraw the Loan.
Lessons Learned
10.         During project preparation, the Bank had met with enthusiasm from
the newly established regional companies, which would have benefitted from the
management and technical assistance under the project. It also received the
full support of the Government, which was interested in improving sector
efficiency. Bank management decided to take the risk of proceeding with the
project, despite upcoming elections. The new Government, with the backing of
the newly appointed management of ELECTROPERU, did not support the
decentralization of the sector, and showed little interest in strengthening
the regional companies. Although the project was well-thought out and timely,
it had clearly lost its priority with the new Government, and was dropped
after loan withdrawal.
11.         The main lesson learned from the preparation and appraisal of this
project is the importance of more careful assessment of the risks associated
with preparing a project at the end of an Administration, due to the inability
to ensure continued political support (the Bank should have been particularly
cautious because of the broad policy changes expected from the likely winner).
The Bank might have waited for the regionalization reforms to be consolidated
by the next administration, before embarking on an ambitious engineering and
technical assistance loan in the sector.



