Report No. PID11104
Project Name                     AZERBAIJAN-IRRIGATION DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM & ...
MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Irrigation and drainage (70%); General public
administration sector (30%)
Project ID                       P008286
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF AZERBAIJAN
Implementing Agency
Address STATE AMELIORATION AND IRRIGATION COMMITTEE
Address: V Floor, House of Government, Baku
Contact Person: Mr. M.S. Guliyev
Tel: 994-12-989158
Fax: 994-12-382571
Email: irrigation@azdata.net
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 20, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              March 24, 2003
Bank Approval Date               June 19, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Agricultural Sector
Background. The agricultural sector is an important part of the economy
in Azerbaijan. In 2001, it contributed about 17 percent of Gross Domestic
Product (GDP), and provided income and employment for about 31 percent of
the economically active population. The sector produces a wide variety of
products and was at one time a large producer of cotton, fruits,
vegetables, wheat, and wine for the Soviet Union markets. During the
transition period (from 1991 to 1995), agricultural output fell rapidly as
a result of the collapse of trade relations with the former Soviet
partners, macro-economic instability and the conflict with Armenia.
Agricultural output declined by more than 50 percent and the share of
agriculture in total exports declined from 30 percent in 1990 to seven
percent in 1995. As a result of comprehensive agricultural reforms that
started in 1996, agricultural output increased from that year onwards, and
in 2000 was at a level of 23 percent higher than in 1995. The growth in
agriculture continued in 2001 and 2002, with 11 and 6 percent
respectively. This recovery was mainly due to early easy gains from
improved farm management and increased labor productivity arising from the
reforms. About 96 percent of agricultural output is now produced by
small-scale individual farmers working on privatized plots. Agriculture
remains the second largest sector (after industry; mainly oil), with large
potential export markets in the Middle East, Europe, and the countries of
the former Soviet Union (FSU).
Ongoing Reforms. After an initially slow start to the agricultural
reform process, the country has moved ahead rapidly with implementation of
basic reforms in agriculture since 1996, following the success of the



macroeconomic stabilization program. The long-term goal of the
agricultural reforms is development of a market-oriented, competitive and
diverse agricultural sector, serviced by well-functioning input and output
markets. The main achievements to date include: (i) the discontinuation
of central planning and price control; (ii) abolition of the state order
system; (iii) the liberalization of domestic and external trade in
agricultural commodities; (iv) the liquidation of state and collective
farms and distribution of land; and (v) initial phases of restructuring in
the Ministry of Agriculture. Almost all state and collective farms have
been disbanded and 97 percent of the total arable land (1.6 million ha)
has been privatized and distributed to 869,000 farm families in one of the
most comprehensive agrarian land reform programs in the FSU.
Remaining Reform and Development Challenges. While the reforms have
created an enabling environment for the development of the agricultural
sector and helped to restore growth, the sector still faces a wide range
of remaining constraints which are impeding the increase of output to
potential levels. Principal constraints include: (i) lack of a
functioning real estate registry system, which undermines security of
tenure based on the land titles; (ii) lack of access to credit due to a
non-functional rural financial market; (iii) limited technical and
managerial know-how of farmers and insufficient advisory services; (iv)
the demise of the agro-industrial sector; (v) absence of an adequate
marketing system; and (vi) declining access to water due to the rapid
deterioration of the irrigation systems. The Government is committed to
continue the reform process and the assistance to the agricultural sector,
realizing it serves as an important source of livelihood for the majority
of the rural population.
It is expected that, with the assistance of donors, most of the mentioned
issues that constrain agricultural growth would continue to be addressed.
The IDA financed Farm Privatization Project (FPP; P040544, FY97) and the
Agricultural Development and Credit Program (ADCP; P035813, FY99) are
designed to support the development of a farm information and advisory
system, real estate registration, and rural credit system. The first IDA
project in the irrigation sub-sector, RIDIP, supports rehabilitation of
main irrigation and drainage schemes, and makes a start with institutional
development towards the improvement of irrigation management by the State
Amelioration and Irrigation Committee in some of the larger hydraulic
units.
Irrigation and Drainage Sub-sector
Background. Azerbaijan has nine distinct agro-climatic zones and offers
potential for highly diversified agriculture. Except for areas near the
foothills and the south-eastern part of the country, agriculture is to a
large degree dependent on irrigation, due to low rainfall. Almost all
agricultural land is under arid or semi-arid conditions with average
annual rainfall of 200-300 mm. For example, the average annual rainfall
in Imishli in the center of the Kura plain is 254 mm, with only 55 percent
falling inside the main growing season from April through October.
Evapotranspiration during the growing season is high due to low humidity
and high day time temperatures. On average it will exceed effective
rainfall by a factor of five or more. Consequently, irrigation is a key
input for reliable crop production, and almost all agricultural output
- 2 -



comes from irrigated lands. Thus issues and constraints affecting the
irrigation sub-sector have a large impact on the agricultural sector.
In the past, the total area used for irrigation was 1.45 million ha,
representing 90 percent of all arable land in the country. There is a
high reliance on pumped irrigation to abstract water from main canals,
with about 440,000 ha receiving water through at least one level of
pumping. Irrigation water is predominantly distributed through open canal
systems and surface-applied to the land. At present about 1.1 million ha
is being irrigated.
Drainage is essential for many irrigation systems in Azerbaijan, but most
critical in the flat low-lying Kura-Araz and Mugan-Salyan plains, totaling
about 760,000 ha, where soil salinity has developed for lack of natural
drainage. This is a normal phenomenon in all arid/semi-arid zones.
Unavoidable losses of irrigation, even when irrigation is efficient, will
cause the groundwater to rise. When natural drainage is insufficient, the
rootzone becomes waterlogged and, due to high evaporation rates in these
climatic zones, salinization occurs. Natural drainage has to be
complemented by artificially installed drainage systems.
Water Resources. Azerbaijan has an average annual renewable water supply
of 32 billion m3. Only 30 percent of this amount is generated within the
country's borders, and supplies fluctuate drastically from year to year.
Although yearly river flows are considerable, there are large annual
fluctuations. Most of the flow is from rainfall, with a contribution from
snow of around 25 percent. Especially during the summer and autumn
seasons there is very little water generated within Azerbaijan. Therefore
the reliance on storage is high, with an overall capacity of about 22
billion m3. Annual water use is about 17 billion m3, with agriculture
accounting for 75 percent.
Legislation. Azerbaijan does not have an adequate and appropriate
legal framework in place for the establishment and sustainable operation
of WUAs. Legislative inadequacies include the following:
the absence of provisions that would permit the transfer of on-farm
systems to WUAs in use or ownership;
the absence of clear and appropriate provisions on tariff setting, which
would allow WUAs to determine their own tariffs for the operation and
maintenance of the on-farm systems free of government interference;
the lack of clear legal provisions that confer substantive and secure
rights to WUAs in respect of the supply of irrigation water to them; and
a lack of provisions that would confer the necessary legal rights on WUAs
to enable them to access and if necessary to use land that does not belong
to them, where this is necessary for the operation or maintenance of an
irrigation scheme under their control.
Insufficient Funds for Operation and Maintenance. SAIC is in charge of
operation and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage infrastructure
outside the boundaries of the former state and collective farms (defined
here as 'off-farm'). Almost all irrigation and drainage infrastructure
was developed during the Soviet era. It was often constructed with little
consideration of economic cost or long-term viability. O&M budgets have
been drastically cut after Independence. A recent survey of project areas
-3 -



of the Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage
Infrastructure Project found that around 80 percent of the infrastructure
has been deteriorating in some form and needs attention. The 2002 budget
for SAIC was AZM 175 billion (about US $36 million, using a February 2003
exchange rate of AZM 4,885 per US $), about AZM 15 billion higher than the
2001 budget. The budget is about half of SAIC's estimated requirement of
AZM 350 billion to operate and maintain off-farm irrigation and drainage
systems adequately.
Since its introduction in 1997, irrigation service fees have been set at a
very low level. Actual annual collection of the reduced ISF has ranged
from about 6 percent during the first years to an average of 90 percent in
2002. In a few raions the collection rate is close to 100 percent.
Lack of Operation and Maintenance within the Former Farms. There were
about 2,000 farms before Independence that had their own management
organizations to provide O&M for on-farm irrigation and drainage systems.
The dissolution of the farms left a void in management responsibility,
with no one having ownership of the infrastructure and no one taking full
responsibility for O&M. This has been a major reason for irregular and
inadequate availability of irrigated water at farm level and low overall
efficiency of irrigation, which in turn is resulting in much lower yields
and profitability than could be achieved under well irrigated conditions.
A survey showed that around 70 percent of the farmers have less than
adequate water supply to their fields. The transfer of ownership to SAIC
has not been a solution. Adding to the agency's responsibilities, without
substantially increasing its budget, is not a solution for improving the
management of on-farm irrigation systems. It actually goes against common
practice in many other countries where government agencies are gradually
reducing their involvement in O&M, and concentrate more on policy and
regulation setting and implementation. SAIC has indicated that this
transfer is a temporary measure and that it would hand over management
responsibilities to WUAs with sufficient capacity to carry out these
tasks.
Status of the Development of Water Users Associations. As noted above,
Government has recognized the importance of establishing and strengthening
WUAs as the organizations that would eventually take over responsibility
for O&M of on-farm irrigation and drainage systems. A start was made with
the promotion of WUAs under the IDA and IFAD financed FPP with the main
purpose to pilot the transfer of management responsibilities to
associations of water users in six pilot raions. WUAs were established
with command areas ranging from 1,000 ha to 3,900 ha. They perform a main
function in allocating irrigation water to members in rotation, collecting
water fees from users, and resolving water related disputes among users.
These six WUAs presently serve 9,383 households in 31 villages with total
area of 16,942 ha. Within the six WUAs a total of 198 Water Users Groups
have been established, each with responsibility for the distribution of
water in a small canal section.
2. Objectives
The development objective of the proposed Irrigation Distribution System
and Management Improvement Project (IDSMIP) is to improve the efficiency
and sustainability of irrigation water distribution and management on
50,000 ha, through provision of support to Water Users Associations (WUA)
- 4 -



and the State Amelioration and Irrigation Committee (SAIC).
To achieve this objective the project would provide funds for the
development of WUA-related institutional capacity in SAIC, for training
and support to WUAs to become organizations that can take charge of the
operation and maintenance (O&M) of irrigation and drainage systems under
their management, and for selective rehabilitation of irrigation and
drainage systems.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
A principal contribution from IDA would be to bring in considerable
world-wide and regional experience with the development of irrigation
management transfer programs and the development of institutions and
training programs to assist WUAs to become viable organizations. In
February 2003, the Bank conducted a video conference with Azerbaijan,
Georgia and the Kyrgyz Republic to share experiences in the three
countries. The cooperation between these three countries is expected to
continue.
IDA would be able to support Government in institutional innovation and
rational selection of schemes to be improved, with emphasis on cost
recovery, beneficiary ownership, competitive procurement and inclusion of
proper environmental measures to mitigate negative impacts.
4. Description
The proposed project would have two primary activities: (i) assist
Government in building capacity to provide training and support to WUAs,
and provide this training and support to WUAs; and (ii) assist in the
rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation and drainage infrastructure.
To achieve this, the project would have two major components, while a
third component would provide project management support.
The project would provide some support to about 60 raions, but it would
provide more comprehensive institutional support to the nine raions where
rehabilitation activities would take place. It is expected that the
following nine raions would be covered: Khachmaz, Geranboy, Aghjabedi,
Sabirabad, Saatli, Zardab, Imishli, Babek, and Sharur. These raions have
large irrigation areas, and they can be linked to other donor-assisted
interventions in the sector. Several of the raions are benefiting from
the ongoing RIDIP, while FPP and ADCP are active in some of the raions as
well. A recent Poverty Assessment Study found that the poverty level is
quite similar across the rural regions. This suggests that targeting
specific regions, using poverty as a benchmark, is difficult. However,
most of the nine raions are in areas with an average or above average
share of poor. Many people in the nine project raions live below the
poverty line, and generally lack adequate access to basic services and
infrastructure. Agriculture, heavily dependent on irrigation, is the
major source of income for rural households in the nine raions. Further
deterioration of the irrigation and drainage network could cause recurrent
crop failure, which would increase the incidence of poverty in the project
areas.
Component 1 - Development of Water User Associations (US $5.20 million)
This component would include several activities, designed to develop
- 5-



sustainable operating WUAs in the country. It would finance technical
assistance, goods, training and study tours. The technical assistance
would be used to develop training and support plans for SAIC and WUAs,
prepare training material, and provide initial training courses. Goods,
such as office equipment and vehicles, would be provided to strengthen the
agencies involved in the training and support of WUAs. Participating WUAs
would also be able to source goods, including office equipment, motor
bikes, and field survey and monitoring equipment, to facilitate their
operations. Training programs and study tours would be financed.
Activity 1: Development of capacity to train and strengthen WUAs
Proper development of WUAs, with adequate member participation, would
require a serious program of assistance. In order to establish the
institutional capability to develop in excess of 800-1,000 WUAs, as well
as to ensure that the Government has the long-term technical capacity to
support them, SAIC needs staff fully dedicated to these important tasks.
In January 2003, small WUA Support Units (SU) were established in Baku
headquarters (Central-SU) and each of the 60 Regional Irrigation
Exploitation Units (Raion-SU). What is lacking is the experience and
institutional capacity to provide the training and technical support
needed to develop WUAs into broad-based, effective and sustainable
community organizations.
The project would assist with the development of these newly established
SUs, both within SAIC in Baku and the SAIC Raion offices. The staff of
these Units are civil servants, paid by SAIC. The project would
distinguish between Raion-SUs in nine raions where rehabilitation
activities would take place, and other raions. The Central-SU in Baku and
the ones in the raions where the rehabilitation of infrastructure is to be
implemented would be supported with office and training equipment,
vehicles, and part of the incremental operational funds. There would be
ten Raion-SUs, as two would be supported in Sabirabad Raion. The
Central-SU and Babek Raion-SU would receive more training equipment to set
up a professional training room. The staff of the SUs would receive the
training necessary to implement their WUA support and strengthening
tasks. For this, national and international consultants would be
recruited to develop the capacity within the SUs to establish, train,
support and strengthen WUAs. The 50 SUs outside the immediate project
area would receive a small allocation for office furniture and equipment.
They would also benefit from basic training programs which would allow
them to start a program of support to WUAs and would ensure that at the
end of the project, the concept of WUA Support Units, along with the
staff, would be incorporated into the SAIC regular line structure.
Activity 2: WUA Strengthening
Training programs would have two components, one directed at sensitizing
the users and the other directed at formal and informal training. The
project would provide on-demand support to farmers that are interested in
participating in WUAs, through promotional material and workshops.
Information dissemination would be a priority of early stages of the
project, following traditional information transmission mechanisms, as
well as developing new ones that ensure that all stakeholders are reached
and able to make informed decisions regarding restructuring and
- 6 -



development of the WUA.
When the legal framework is in place, one of the first tasks of Raion-SUs
would be to help all existing WUAs to restructure, and gain legal
re-registration according to the amended Law on Amelioration and
Irrigation, as public, non-profit associations rather than private,
for-profit organizations as they are now. The legislation proposed as
part of project design proposes a new structure in which governance and
management are separated. Successful restructuring of existing WUAs would
require significant investment in public information, accompanied by a
series of neighborhood-level discussions and public meetings in order to
overcome the currently restricted patterns of information dissemination
and establish a basis for replacing existing leadership with people who
have grassroots support. The Raion-SUs would have funds to hire respected
people in the WUA area for short periods, to assist with the information
campaign and development of an effective communication network between the
users. The new structure must allow policy decisions to be made by the
Administrative Council that represents all the members. At the time of
restructuring, the WUA would also receive the irrigation infrastructure
under long-term use.
After the initial awareness campaigns, a major focus would be on the
provision of strengthening support to WUAs, in the form of training, and
ad hoc advice through regular, informal contacts by consultants and
trained staff with WUAs. One of the first tasks of the Central-SU,
assisted by its TA consultants, would be to carry out a detailed training
needs assessment, building on the initial assessment that was done during
project preparation. Sufficient project funds have been reserved for
training. Training modules would be prepared, based on the results of the
training needs assessment. It is expected that training modules would be
prepared on subjects such as: WUA formation and registration; WUA
organization and governance, including the important role of the WUA
Council; WUA administration and the roles of the various staff members;
ISF and methods of calculating; irrigation systems operations and water
allocation; irrigation infrastructure maintenance and preparation of O&M
plans; construction supervision; and monitoring and evaluation, and
preparation of (annual) reports. The project would pay special attention
to financial sustainability of WUAs, which in turn would ensure increased
sustainability of the irrigation delivery system, through payment of ISF
and proper operation and maintenance of irrigation canals under the
responsibility of the WUA. In this respect, modules are likely to be
prepared on topics such as: administration; personnel management, social
security, taxes, insurance, etc; expenditure and income (ISF) planning and
budgeting; and bookkeeping and audit procedures.
Component 2 - Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure Rehabilitation (US
$27.30 million)
During project preparation diagnostic surveys were carried out in nine
project raions. The following summarizes the main technical findings of
the survey work: (i) on-farm systems are in poor condition with high water
losses; (ii) canals are seriously affected by the heavy silt load in
irrigation water due to non-functioning desilting at headworks; (iii)
there is lack of operational hydraulic structures, and therefore no
regulation or water measurement, and thus no incentive for efficient use
-7 -



of water; (iv) pump irrigation is seriously affected by poor quality of
pumps and unreliable electricity supply; and (v) significant areas have
been affected by salinity, and reclamation would be needed.
In order to improve the performance of WUAs, they need to have
infrastructure that allows efficient and reliable water distribution, so
that farmers can receive water in the right amount, at the right time and
at the right place. To this end, the project would provide funds for
selective rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage systems. The project
would target some 200 WUAs in the nine selected raions, of which about 40
of those that reach sufficient maturity would benefit from rehabilitation
investments (hereafter referred to as rehabilitation WUAs or R-WUAs).
Rehabilitation would not only be at on-farm level, as it also has to be
ensured that water supply to the WUA boundaries is reliable.    Funds would
be provided for: (i) rehabilitation of on-farm infrastructure on about
50,000 ha; (ii) rehabilitation of the Bahramtape headworks on the Araz
River, which has stability issues, requiring urgent attention, and which
serves some 140,000 ha, including large areas in three of the project's
target raions (Sabirabad, Imishli and Saatli); and (iii) rehabilitation of
off-farm works associated with the on-farm works to ensure sufficient and
timely water delivery to project WUAs. Off-farm rehabilitation
investments, including the major headworks and hydroposts, would be
restricted to 40 percent of available rehabilitation funds to ensure that
the bulk of investments are at the farm level, where the most serious
deterioration has taken place during the past years.
Based on various studies, it was determined that the average investment
for on-farm rehabilitation can be estimated at US $300 per ha. This would
allow basic rehabilitation and modernization interventions to return a
system to operational conditions. The costs of rehabilitation works would
vary widely across the project area, depending on the scale and nature of
works required at each site. It was agreed with SAIC that the available
funds would be used as efficiently as possible, so that the maximum number
of WUAs can be served. The project would follow a program approach, where
participating WUAs would be selected according to a number of criteria,
including status of development of the WUA, training programs followed by
WUA Council and management staff, and past collection rates of ISF.
Rehabilitation plans would be prepared with maximum users participation.
Typical rehabilitation works would include canal and drain cleaning, canal
lining, rehabilitation and construction of hydraulic structures, and
rehabilitation of boreholes. Increased use of weirs, rather than gated
structures, would be an example of scheme modernization in order to
improve the management of the system. Construction supervision and
quality control would be provided by private engineering consulting firms,
with oversight from PIU construction engineers, and WUA management
staff.
Implementation experience in the irrigation sub-sector shows that
farmers' participation in paying some of the investments is beneficial.
Investments for rehabilitation are more likely to be successful when users
not only participate in the identification of rehabilitation requirements,
but also provide a contribution to the costs of the works. A contribution
is not so much important from the standpoint of actually funding the
rehabilitation works, but it is an important mechanism to involve members
of the WUAs in the planning and design of works they see as important, by
- 8-



ensuring a genuine dialogue in determining on-farm priorities and a sense
of ownership. The project would follow the concept of farmer-driven
development, a participatory process in which irrigators (through WUAs)
identify their needs and are involved in decision making, implementation,
and monitoring. During the diagnostic surveys, farmers expressed a
willingness to contribute financially towards rehabilitation costs,
provided this is available under easy repayment terms, and after the works
have been completed. It was agreed that the project plan for a small
percentage repayment of ten percent, spread over eight years, with a four
year grace period and zero or low-fixed interest rate. The repaid funds
would be used by SAIC raion offices to carry out rehabilitation works that
further improve water delivery to WUAs.
The Bahramtape headworks distributes water from the Araz river and Upper
Karabakh canal to four main canals serving some 140,000 ha of irrigated
land in five raions. The headworks were completed in 1950, with only
routine maintenance being carried out over the next forty years until the
end of Soviet support in 1991. SAIC recognizes the need for urgent
capital repairs, but it has been unable to take action, due to budgetary
constraints. There have been no repairs in the decade since, and the
headworks are now in extremely poor condition, with an increasing risk of
collapse in the event of a major flood. The project would provide the
funds necessary to guarantee the safety and operation of the structure for
the next decades.
In order for SAIC to deliver adequate and timely volumes of water to the
R-WUAs, the higher order systems would have to be in fully operational
condition. It would thus have to be ensured that main canal and drainage
systems have sufficient capacity and ability to supply water to or drain
water away from WUA areas. The project would finance selective
rehabilitation of higher order systems. This would include the
re-instatement of about 400 water measuring structures (hydro-posts).
This is part of the process of the re-introduction of volumetric water
measurement, a conditionality of the financing of rehabilitation works for
the project WUAs. Scheme evaluation would also identify training needs of
SAIC staff to improve the operation of systems. Necessary training
courses to improve service and accountability would be developed, as
needed.
The project would provide for necessary design and supervision services
to ensure that all works are properly designed and carried out with
sufficient construction supervision and quality control. Design and
supervision of the rehabilitation works would be delegated to engineering
consultants.
Component 3 - Project Management (US $1.60 million)
With the similarities in implementation requirements for the ongoing
Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
Project, the existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would also be
responsible, on behalf of SAIC, for the daily management, administration
and coordination of the IDSMIP. The PIU would be strengthened with staff
and equipment, so that it can assume responsibility for the implementation
of this project as well. The project would finance all staff costs, goods
and equipment, and part of the operational costs. The PIU would have a
-9-



cadre of staff, such as a director, M&E specialist and environmental
specialist, that would be shared by the two projects. The PIU would be
strengthened with a Project Manager, a Design Engineer, three Construction
Supervisors, an Accountant and a Procurement Specialist. Funds for annual
monitoring and evaluation of selected project areas would also be
provided. The annual audit of project accounts and the implementation of
the Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan would be financed as well.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $4.10
IBRD
IDA $30.00
Total Project Cost $34.10
6. Implementation
Project Duration. Project implementation is anticipated to take six
years, from October 2003 to September 2009, with the Credit Closing Date
being March 31, 2010. A mid-term review would be carried out by September
30, 2006.
Implementing Agency. The project would be implemented under the aegis of
the State Amelioration and Irrigation Committee. Responsibility for all
project implementation tasks would be delegated to a Project
Implementation Unit created within SAIC in July 1998 to implement RIDIP
(SAIC Order No. 51-e), as both projects would have similar implementation
requirements. The PIU reports directly to the Chairman of SAIC and would
have direct responsibility for the daily management, administration and
coordination of the proposed project, including procurement, financial
management and disbursement, monitoring and evaluation, and reporting.
The PIU has been managing RIDIP satisfactorily for over two years.
The PIU has as its core staff a director and specialists on procurement,
financial management, environment, and monitoring and evaluation. In
addition, the PIU employs engineers and construction supervisors for
specific RIDIP components. In order to ensure successful implementation,
the new project would strengthen the capacity of the PIU with eight
additional core staff, namely a Project Manager, a Design Engineer, three
Construction Supervisors, an accountant, a financial management officer,
and a procurement specialist. These staff would undertake the functions
required by implementation of the new components and play a coordinating
role between the World Bank and SAIC. M&E and environmental specialists
would be shared between the two projects.
The PIU director would have overall responsibility for implementation of
both the on-going RIDIP and new IDSMIP. The Project Manager would have
experience in institutional development, and would supervise IDSMIP staff,
but would report to the PIU director on all implementation tasks of
IDSMIP. The Engineering Team would ensure that the technical aspects of
the engineering work are carried out professionally, and have direct
responsibility for contract management and construction supervision,
whether in WUA territories or in main systems.
The PIU has now developed the necessary experience and competence to
manage core functions such as procurement and financial management. A
- 10 -



second procurement specialist, an accountant and financial management
officer would be hired to strengthen the PIU procurement and accounting
team, that would be responsible for these core activities for both
projects. Procurement and accounting staff would perform as a team, each
however with primary responsibility specific either to activities of RIDIP
or IDSMIP. This would allow to set up flexible back-up arrangements based
on workload and ensure knowledge sharing and on-the-job training for newly
recruited staff. The M&E specialist would be responsible for establishing
the project monitoring and evaluation system that would allow the PIU to
track the progress of the project and timely identify bottlenecks. The
Environmental Specialist would be responsible for the coordination of the
Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan.
The PIU would be responsible for civil works contract management. It
would contract out the necessary design and supervision services to ensure
that all works are properly designed and carried out with sufficient
construction supervision and quality control. Design and supervision of
the rehabilitation works would be delegated to engineering consultants.
It is envisaged that there would be a separate contract with an
international consulting firm to design the rehabilitation works for
Bahramtape weir. The design and supervision of the on- and off-farm works
can probably all be carried out by local consulting firms. Some
short-term international inputs would be needed to assist for example in
the development of modern hydraulic structures.
Sub-projects for off-farm rehabilitation works would be selected in
accordance with agreed procedures and eligibility criteria and the works
would be carried out in accordance with agreed terms and conditions, all
of which are spelled out in the DCA.
WUA Support Units would be responsible for the implementation of the WUA
Development Component. The Central-SU would organize and implement the
national WUA promotion program as well as coordinate WUA restructuring
program and all training programs, both for the project WUAs in nine
raions and larger set of WUAs country-wide. It would also provide
oversight functions through regular monitoring, and be responsible for
maintaining the database for all WUAs in the country. The Central SU
would be staffed with a head, a WUA specialist, training/promotion
specialist, financial/ISF specialist and database/information specialist.
Raion SUs would provide technical support locally. They would help with
the formation of WUAs, work closely with the WUAs to strengthen them and
arrange training courses to give them skills needed to properly operate
and maintain their irrigation system. They would also work with the WUAs
during the rehabilitation phase and in particular, would assist WUAs in
identification, design and supervision of works. It is envisioned that
there would be three staff working in each support unit, namely an
Engineer, Water Management specialist and WUA Support specialist.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of the WUAs is a central issue to the long-term success of
the proposed project. The present ISF does not ensure proper operation and
maintenance (O&M) of the on-farm and off-farm irrigation systems.
However, adequate and regular maintenance, as well as effective operation
of the rehabilitated irrigation and drainage infrastructure are critical
for the sustainability of project benefits. First priority for the WUA
- 11 -



would be the adequate funding of on-farm O&M. It is accepted that the
raise in off-farm O&M coverage should be more gradual, but in the meantime
the Government should provide the necessary financing needs to SAIC to
carry out O&M of irrigation and drainage infrastructure of main and
secondary canals to prevent further deterioration.
The O&M cost would be farm specific, and would be calculated during the
time of determining the rehabilitation needs. Phasing in of full ISF
would take place over a few years after rehabilitation. It would take
into account the lower needs for maintenance during the first few years
after rehabilitation and also the fact that full incremental incomes would
be achieved a few years after rehabilitation works have been completed.
It was found to be unreasonable that full financial responsibility for
the large back-log of rehabilitation would be transferred to users, most
of whom only recently became independent farmers. There would also not be
much point in rehabilitating schemes if their O&M is not secured.
Therefore, Financing of full ISF by WUA members, both for its own
operations and SAIC's operations, should have preference over
contributions to rehabilitations investments. This, in turn, would
largely be dependent upon effective operation of the WUA. Therefore,
participation of a WUA in the proposed rehabilitation activities would be
subject to its commitment to carry out adequate maintenance works
afterwards, and to its meeting the financial obligations for this.
The project would develop promotion and awareness campaigns, which would
include the importance of paying the full ISF for the service provided by
SAIC. The project would also put a major emphasis on increasing the
sustainability of WUAs by provision of relevant training and advice, prior
to investments in rehabilitation of irrigation canals. Discussions held
with the management and members of WUAs in the field reveals understanding
by farmers of the importance of training in proper operation of WUAs. The
most often mentioned subjects were: (i) how to use water for irrigation
properly; (ii) how to distribute water properly; (iii) irrigation norms,
and how to account for water; and (iv) conflict resolution in WUAs.
Farmers also stressed the importance of training in such subjects as
marketing, business planning, agricultural technologies, where the
complementarity in training provision would be sought with ADCP.
One of the main measures to achieve sustainability of irrigation and
drainage systems under WUA management would be to include the
beneficiaries in the design of the interventions and empower them to make
decisions on the funding of operation and maintenance tasks, through the
setting of irrigation service fees, collection of these fees, and
utilization of funds.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience from ongoing project implementation in Azerbaijan and other
Former Soviet Union countries suggests that a project should have few
components and be focused on one or few major activities, in view of the
country's limited implementation and coordination capacity. In addition,
projects to be undertaken in rapidly changing circumstances and with
limited reliable information should be designed to be suitably flexible at
implementation. Projects should foster the understanding among national
staff of the need to ensure the participation of all stakeholders,
- 12 -



particularly beneficiaries, during implementation. For this project, the
latter would be key to the success of developing WUAs. The proposed
project has only two major components and focuses on one sector only. It
would follow a program approach, which would give flexibility to make some
changes in project implementation. Also, a well operating PIU is already
in place.
Worldwide experience in the irrigation sub-sector suggests that in order
to get away from the irrigation sector's vicious cycle caused by the lack
of investment and maintenance, poor irrigation service, water user
dissatisfaction, low rates of ISF collection, resulting in even less
maintenance, projects should combine a mix of physical rehabilitation and
improvement, user participation, improved financial performance, and
attention to O&M. Effective irrigation projects should be as much
concerned about the policy and institutional aspects of a project as about
physical infrastructure.
Implementation experience in the irrigation sub-sector - for example
documented in OED sector reports - shows that projects should: (i) help
countries and beneficiaries make selective investments for rehabilitation
and improvements, with a careful assessment of the needs to make sure that
all priority constraints to improved water service are being addressed;
(ii) assist irrigation agencies and water users in improving their water
management capabilities; (iii) help countries develop or strengthen their
legal and institutional framework for managing water resources and
promoting user participation and management; (iv) assist in enhancing
cost-sharing programs so that water users have access to reliable services
and pay ISF that would be sufficient to carry out adequate O&M; and (v)
concentrate on management transfer before system improvements.
Lessons from countries such as Mexico - which is regarded as a
best-practice with regard to WUA development - where O&M of irrigation
systems have been transferred to users has shown that WUA support units at
provincial and district level facilitate institutional changes, especially
when these units work effectively with the WUAs as clients rather than as
dependencies. Such WUA support units could be part of the existing
organization structure of irrigation agencies or could be outside
agencies, such as NGOs. If WUA development at the farm level is
successful, WUAs could federate to benefit from economies-of-scale and
take over the management of higher order irrigation systems. The
irrigation agency could then limit itself more and more to overall water
policy and planning.
The proposed project would use the experiences described in the foregoing
paragraphs, except that there would be no planned focus yet on development
of federations of WUAs. This proposed project would focus on the
development of WUAs at former state or collective farm level, which by
itself would be a long-term process. Only after this is successful,
should larger WUAs be formed that can also take over the management of the
larger public irrigation and drainage works.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :   At the request of the Government of Azerbaijan,
the UN FAO assembled a multi-disciplinary team of international and
national environmental experts to conduct the environmental assessment
- 13 -



(EA) and prepare the environmental management and monitoring plan (EMMP).
The EA team had missions in Azerbaijan in June, September, and December
2002, and February 2003, to gather the baseline information for the EA,
visit the various proposed project areas, view irrigation and drainage
conditions, and meet with national and local officials, representatives of
non-governmental organizations, water user associations, farmers, and
other beneficiaries of the project. During the February mission the EA
team conducted public consultations in Baku and in Sabirabad with
officials, NGOs, and project beneficiaries on the draft EA/EMMP. A draft
EA/EMMP reflecting the comments received from the local consultations was
made available for comment in Azerbaijan and will be placed in the World
Bank Infoshop before appraisal.
The EA confirmed the Category "B" designation for the project, finding no
significant, irreversible, cumulative or long-term adverse impacts. In
fact, the EA identified a number of positive impacts of the project (such
as improved agricultural productivity; reduction in water losses,
waterlogging and soil salinity; and enhanced water resources management).
Potential negative impacts that were identified could be effectively
prevented or reduced through application of appropriate preventive actions
or mitigation measures. The potential negative impacts are described in
Annex 11, which presents the Executive Summary of the EA. The EA also
confirmed the application of the safeguard policies on environmental
assessment, projects on international waterways, and safety of dams, and
examined but rejected application of the safeguard policies for natural
habitats and pest management to the project. Finally, the EA determined
that the project does not trigger any of the remaining safeguard policies
involving forestry, cultural property, indigenous peoples, involuntary
resettlement or projects in disputed areas.
Although finding no significant adverse impacts from the project, the EA
nevertheless recommended the following preventive and mitigative measures,
supported by environmental monitoring, to address the few potential
negative impacts identified: (i) environmental management guidelines and
appropriate site management plans to minimize any damage caused by
contractors during construction activities and ensure proper disposal of
excavated sediment and construction waste; (ii) proper management
practices and water quality and quantity monitoring to address the
potential decrease in water quality and risk of reduction in ecological
flow; (iii) technical assistance to promote improved water and soil
management practices to prevent any potential waterlogging, salinization,
or erosion of soils; (iv) phasing of rehabilitation activities in
sensitive areas and ecological monitoring to detect any potential adverse
changes in the hydrology of sensitive wetlands; (v) extension services in
environmental health practices and monitoring to prevent any increase in
water-related diseases; (vi) technical assistance to strengthen water
management practices by WUAs in order to minimize water user conflicts;
and (vii) extension services in integrated pest and production management
to reduce any potential future agro-chemical pollution resulting from
increased use of fertilizers or pesticides.
10. Contact Point:
- 14 -



Task Manager
Joop Stoutjesdijk
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-3754
Fax: 202-614-0583
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 28, 2002.
- 15 -



