Report No. 24047
Report No: I008286 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04/18/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: AZERBAIJAN      Project ID: P008286
Project: IRRIGATION DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM & MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Task Team Leader: Joop Stoutjesdijk
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 10, 2003 IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: July 31, 2003     IDA Amount ($m): 20.00
Managing Unit: ECSSD     Sector: AI - Irrigation & Drainage
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The development objective of the proposed Irrigation Distribution System
and Management Improvement Project (IDSMIP) would be to improve Water
Users Associations (WUA) performance in operating and maintaining
irrigation distribution and drainage systems, resulting in reliable and
sustainable water management.
To achieve this objective, the project would provide funds for: (i)
training and support to WUAs to become viable organizations that can take
charge of the management of irrigation systems; and (ii) selective
rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage systems to increase their
efficiency and reliability.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The proposed project would have two primary activities: (i) assist
Government in building capacity to provide training and support to WUAs,
and provide this training and support; and (ii) assist in the
rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation and drainage infrastructure.
To achieve this, the project would have two major components, while a
third component would provide project management support.
Component 1 - Development of Water User Associations
This component would include several activities, designed to develop
sustainable operating WUAs in the country. It would finance technical
assistance, goods, training and study tours. The technical assistance
would be used to develop training and support plans and provide initial
training courses, as well as the development of an institutional
restructuring and manpower plan for SAIC. Goods, such as office
equipment, would be provided to strengthen the agencies involved in the
training and support of WUAs. Participating WUAs would also be able to
source goods, including office equipment, motor bikes, field survey and
monitoring equipment, to facilitate their operations. Training programs
and study tours would be financed.



Activity 1: Development of capacity to train and strengthen WUAs
The project would build on the institutional developments inside and
outside the State Amelioration and Irrigation Committee (SAIC) to support
the establishment and training of WUAs. It would train staff in both
headquarters and the raion offices of SAIC's Department for Water Resource
Management and Collection of Water Fees to be able to provide necessary
training and support to their clients, the WUAs. Raion staff of other
Departments would be trained as well, e.g. maintenance staff to provide
training and support to WUAs in the development and implementation of
operation and maintenance (O&M) plans. This support to WUAs would become
a permanent activity of these offices, which could be achieved without
adding staff. Although only one Department has been charged with the
responsibility to assist WUAs, in reality the support is being provided by
staff of several Departments in a rather unstructured way. The project
would ensure that the support would become more structured, with one
reference point for WUAs and their members to obtain assistance.
The small WUA Coordination Unit in the Agency for Support to the
Development of the Agricultural Private Sector, that was set up with Farm
Privatization Project (FPP) funds, and had responsibility for the support
to the six pilot WUAs, would possibly be merged into SAIC's Department for
Water Resource Management and Collection of Water Fees to provide
awareness, training and coordination activities. The awareness and
training material developed by this Unit would serve as the starting point
for the development of a comprehensive training and support program. The
involvement of NGOs to provide training and support would be investigated
during project preparation.
About mid-way through the proposed project, an institutional assessment
of SAIC would be made, and a restructuring and manpower needs plan would
be developed for the medium- to long-term activities to be provided by
SAIC.
Activity 2: WUA Strengthening
The project would provide on-demand support to farmers that are
interested in establishing WUAs. This would be done through promotional
material and workshops. The project would also work with already
established WUAs to introduce changes to the existing WUA model, according
to existing best practices, such as establishment of an elected Board, and
to maximize the participation of users in decision making processes.
After establishment according to acceptable procedures, the major focus
would be on the provision of strengthening support to WUAs, in the form of
training, ad hoc advice, and financial support for office equipment, field
monitoring equipment and transport. The project would pay special
attention to financial sustainability of WUAs, which in turn would ensure
increased sustainability of the irrigation delivery system through payment
of Irrigation Service Fee (ISF) and proper operation and maintenance of
irrigation canals under the responsibility of the WUA.
Project staff and WUA representatives would participate in study tours to
gain exposure to experiences in WUA development and transfer of irrigation
management in other countries.
-2-



Appropriate legislation - new or amended laws and regulations - to enable
the mentioned activities would be drafted, as needed. These would also
ensure that there are clear division of responsibilities between WUAs and
SAIC for irrigation and drainage infrastructure management.
Component 2 - Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure Rehabilitation
The project would support an estimated 130 WUAs, with a total management
area of about 165,000 ha, with selective rehabilitation and improvement of
irrigation and drainage infrastructure. There would likely be a focus on
a small number of regions, including possibly the Bahramtepe zone on the
right bank of the Araz river, the Tar-Tar zone in western Azerbaijan and
the Samur Apsheron Canal zone in north-eastern Azerbaijan. These areas
have large irrigation areas, are water short, and are densely populated.
Most of the available funds would be used for irrigation distribution and
drainage systems within the areas under the management of WUAs. The
project would follow a program approach, where participating WUAs would be
selected according to a number of criteria, including status of
development of the WUA, training programs followed by WUA Council and
management staff, and past collection rates of ISF. Rehabilitation plans
would be prepared with maximum users participation. The works are
expected to include canal and drain cleaning, canal lining, rehabilitation
and construction of hydraulic and water measuring structures, and
rehabilitation of boreholes.
It would also have to be assured that main canal and drainage systems
have sufficient capacity to supply water to or drain water away from WUA
areas. The project would thus finance limited rehabilitation of higher
order systems, including headworks and other abstraction works.
The project would provide for necessary design and supervision services
to ensure that all works are properly designed and carried out with
sufficient construction supervision and quality control.
Component 3 - Project Management
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) that was established for the
management of the IDA funded Rehabilitation and Completion of Irrigation
and Drainage Infrastructure Project (RIDIP) would be strengthened with
staff and equipment to implement the proposed IDSMIP as well. Funds for
annual monitoring and evaluation of selected project areas would also be
provided. The annual audit of project accounts would be financed as well.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The proposed project would follow a demand-driven program approach, with
selection of schemes for rehabilitation depending on readiness of WUAs.
The decision on whether the project should operate country-wide or within
a few large irrigation zones has not been taken. Initial discussions with
the implementing agency focused on the latter, with the likely selection
of the Bahramtepe zone on the right bank of the Araz river, the Tar-Tar
-3 -



zone in western Azerbaijan and the Samur Apsheron Canal zone in
north-eastern Azerbaijan. These are all existing irrigation areas. To
the knowledge of the task team, there are no protected areas, critical
natural habitats or other culturally or socially sensitive areas in these
zones. This would be confirmed during project preparation. It will be
noted in the Development Credit Agreement that if any irrigation or
drainage system encroaches on protected areas, an environmental assessment
would be performed specific to the site.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments:
The proposed project would finance the rehabilitation of deteriorated
irrigation and drainage infrastructure. No new canals or structures that
would allow increase in the abstraction and supply of water would be
envisaged. Also, no new structures of significant size would be
constructed within the former state and collective farm areas. The
proposed project would not include any investments in dams or involve
resettlement. Potential negative impacts could be addressed (see below).
Overall, it would be expected that the project would have positive
beneficial impact on the environment. It has therefore been classified as
Category "B" for the purpose of OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      Yes
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         Yes
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Potential negative environmental impacts would include: (i) a possible
increase in agro-chemical pollution and surface water contamination,
resulting from projected increased use of fertilizers; (ii) a possible
increase in water salinity caused by increased drainage of saline soils;
(iii) increased seepage caused by larger drainage discharges through
cleaned drains; (iv) continued soil erosion in the farm fields, associated
with existing practices of water management and agricultural production;
(v) dumping of excavated sediment deposits and other materials from the
canals, drains and structures during construction and maintenance; and
(vi) environmental damage caused by contractors during construction
- 4 -



activities.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
None.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
None.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
The mitigation of identified item (i) would be addressed by the Ministry
of Agriculture and the agricultural advisory services that are being
established under the ongoing IDA supported Agricultural Development and
Credit Project. The specialists of this service would provide extension
and advisory services, as well as training in proper application
techniques and timing and handling of residues of fertilizers and
pesticides. As inputs would not anymore be available at subsidized prices
as during the time of the Former Soviet Union, the actual use of
pesticides, chemicals and fertilizers would not reach the high levels as
before Independence. This more careful use of fertilizers and chemicals
and the extension and advisory services is expected to keep the negative
impact of increased input use to a minimum.
Item (ii) - most of the drainage water in the large irrigation areas of
the Kura-Araz basin is discharged in main collector drains that discharge
into the Caspian Sea. This has a negligible impact on the water quality
near the outlets of the collector drains. As the proposed project would
only rehabilitate around 165,000 ha, not all of which will be in this
basin, the additional drainage water to be discharged into the Sea would
be small. The drainage water in the large irrigation areas in the
north-east have no or very low salinity and would not cause any impact on
the water quality of the Caspian Sea. Nevertheless, monitoring of the
shore and water body near the drainage outfalls has been included in the
monitoring program of RIDIP, which also has activities in these irrigation
zones. If necessary, monitoring would be continued under this proposed
project.
Item (iii) - experience from newly completed or cleaned drains indicate
that negligible impact should be expected from cleaned drains with regard
to seepage flow and its impact on the immediate surroundings.
Item (iv) would be addressed by the staff working on WUA strengthening.
They would provide training and advice in improved irrigation and water
management practices, which would reduce soil erosion within irrigated
fields, and subsequently reduce the environmental impact of sedimentation
on rivers.
Items (v) and (vi) would be addressed during scheme design and
supervision. Contractors would be required to prevent, minimize or
mitigate environmental damage. Sediments and other debris would be
- 5 -



displaced in an orderly manner, rather than dumped indiscriminately.
There would be reuse of suitable excavated materials, limiting the need
for quarries. Where possible, only existing quarries would be used for
required additional materials. Contractors would also have to restore to
quasi-original condition the landscape after completion of rehabilitation
works and after use of quarries. The bidding documents would have
environmental precautionary clauses.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Safety of Dams: In 1998, a dam safety assessment of Mingechevir and
Shamkir dams was carried out by the Association, which concluded that the
two dams are in good condition. A more detailed assessment was made by a
team of Azeri specialists at Shamkir in 1999 and Mingechevir in 2000, and
the dams were again found to be in satisfactory condition. The Bank's Dam
Specialist is scheduled to join an IDSMIP preparation mission in May 2002,
to carry out another assessment of these two dams and the Araz dam.
Depending on the outcome of the investigations, recommendations could then
be made for further work, either during project preparation or
implementation. It will also be determined whether a dam management plan
will be required. If so, it will be disclosed before appraisal.
International Waters: Many of the project farms would be located within
basins of international waterways, therefore OP 7.50 would apply.
Azerbaijan is the most downstream country for all international rivers.
The proposed rehabilitation works under IDSMIP would not have a
significant adverse change to the quality or quantity of water flows,
while the works would not change the nature of the original systems or
alter or expand the scope and extent as to create a new or different
scheme. The proposed project would have no impact on the quality or
quantity of the river flow in the upper riparian countries. There would
also be no impact on the Caspian Sea, since there would not be a
significant adverse change to the quantity of water flowing to the Sea.
Similarly, water use in the riparian countries around the Caspian Sea
would not affect the project. The impact is thus expected to be
negligible and subject to a waiver pursuant to paragraph 7 (a) of OP
7.50. If this would indeed be the outcome of the preparation work, a
memorandum with this request would be prepared for ECA VP's concurrence.
The Development Credit Agreement would have as eligibility criteria for
farm participation that there would be no irrigation of new areas or
expansion of existing irrigation infrastructure that would allow water
abstraction above current design limits.
During project preparation, attention will be paid to identify the needs
of the poorer segment of the communities, and mechanisms will be developed
to ensure that the poorer groups will have a chance to become and stay
involved in WUA activities and will be able to obtain WUA services.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The main stakeholders would be the people living in and around the
project farms. During project preparation, diagnostic surveys would be
- 6 -



conducted in up to six potential project farms. During these surveys a
multi-disciplinary team (engineering, agronomical, economic, social and
environmental) would spend time in each of the six farms to talk to
stakeholders, including farmers, farm management, and technicians. These
consultations with various stakeholders would aim at creating a common
understanding, establish priorities and initiate a participation process
that would continue through the design and implementation of the project.
At least two public consultation meetings would be conducted to inform
and consult local organizations and stakeholders about the proposed
project and to hear their views and suggestions.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
1 S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     12/31/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 1/31/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop  1/31/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       1/31/2003
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:  Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop  Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by         Name    Date
Task Team Leader:       Joop Stoutjesdijk       4/3/2002
- 7 -



Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Bernard Baratz   4/18/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Joseph R. Goldberg       4/18/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 8 -



