Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
March 13, 2001 
 
Mr. Avaz Alekperov 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Baku 
Azerbaijan Republic  
 
Re:  AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC:  Japanese Grant for the Preparation of  Irrigation II Project 
 
-
Grant Number TF026258                                               
__ 
 
Excellency: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate 
IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount 
not exceeding four hundred fifty eight thousand United States Dollars (US$458,000) (the Grant) to 
Azerbaijan Republic (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA of  the 
copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as 
of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
/s/ Judy O’Connor 
Country Director for Azerbaijan 
Country Unit III 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
AGREED: 
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC 
 
By: /s/ 
Avaz 
Alekperov 
Title: 
Minister of Finance 
Date:  July  25, 2001
Page  2
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
The purposes of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the preparation of the Irrigation II 
Project, which has as main objective to improve the efficiency, reliability and sustainability of 
irrigation distribution systems for restoring and increasing irrigated crop production (the Project).  
The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows: 
 
(a) 
Development of Water Users Support Program (which is estimated to cost 
US$73,500 equivalent). 
 
Provision of technical assistance to: (i) prepare proposals for the institutional framework 
under which Water Users Associations (WUAs) could operate and define a short- and long-term new 
role for the State Amelioration and Irrigation Committee (the SAIC) in the Operations and 
Maintenance (O&M) of irrigation and drainage infrastructure; (ii) assist in the establishment of eight 
WUAs; (iii) advise on the development of permanent capacity within Government to establish and 
support WUAs; (iv) design training and study tour programs to support and strengthen WUAs;  (v) 
advise on technical assistance needs for project implementation, including the preparation of draft 
terms of references; and (vi) develop site selection and decision mechanisms and milestones for 
inclusion of WUAs in the rehabilitation program. 
 
(b) 
Development of Irrigation Infrastructure Rehabilitation Program (which is estimated 
to cost US$338,000 equivalent). 
 
Provision of technical assistance in carrying out diagnostic surveys in six former state or 
collective farms to: (i) identify the engineering rehabilitation as well as the O & M needs and costs; 
(ii) determine possible cropping patterns, prepare crop budgets for the different farms and calculate 
crop water and irrigation requirements;  (iii) prepare a detailed economic and financial analysis for 
each of the farms; (iv) carry out environmental impact assessments of the farms and environmental 
monitoring plans to understand better the environmental impacts of rehabilitation and determine 
ways of mitigating these; and (v) carry out a social assessment in and around the project areas of the 
six former farms, with major focus on the water users.  
 
c) 
Review of Legal Framework related to Water (which is estimated to cost 
US$46,500 equivalent).   
 
Provision of technical assistance to review all water related legislation (WUA’s 
establishment, water law, etc.),  and draft necessary legislation.   
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2. Implementation 
Generally
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) 
promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) 
furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall 
reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with IDA's representatives on the progress 
and results of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the 
territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the 
Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of the 
Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the 
Activities. 
 
3. Procurement
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services required for 
the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities: 
 
Item 
Amount of the  
Grant Allocated  
(in United States Dollars) 
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed 
 
Consultants’ services  
 
TOTAL 
 
458,000 
 
458,000
100% 
 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development or for services supplied from such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, if such payment, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after August 31, 2003 or 
such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), provided that, 
except in special circumstances, the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date of 
IDA’s  approval of financing for the Project. However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing 
Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application 
is received by IDA within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the 
Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and 
 
(c) 
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, IDA may, 
by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to 
another item which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.  
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance of 
the Recipient or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied 
by such evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated 
specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with 
the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the 
Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy IDA that the 
Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be 
used in the carrying out of the Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient 
from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms costing less than 
US$25,000 equivalent; and (b) services of individual consultants costing less than US$25,000 
equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  IDA, 
at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of 
the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the 
purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in 
United States Dollars special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank  on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
Page  5
-
4
-
IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA 
shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included 
in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with 
IDA shall have been suspended.  
 
6.2. 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if IDA has decided, 
at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or (d) if the 
Recipient has withdrawn its request for IDA’s assistance in financing the Project. 
 
Attachment I  
 
Page  6
-
5
-
Procurement of  
Consultants’ Services 
 
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers”, published by International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in 
January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and 
the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of 
consultants. 
 
Part C:
Other Procedures for the selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to IDA for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by IDA, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost less than equivalent of US$25,000, the terms of reference of the consultants 
shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only 
after said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible item” mean the items set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to US$75,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as 
IDA shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, IDA shall, 
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant 
Account under the eligible item, and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
WB217213 
M:\BACKUP\AZERBAIJ\GRANTS\W - 1721.doc 
March 12, 2001 2:08 PM
 
