Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 4814-UG 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Eighth Poverty Reduction Support Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 24, 2010  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4814-UG 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated November 24, 2010, entered into between the REPUBLIC 
OF UGANDA (“Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section IA of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic 
policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
sixty-five million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 65,900,000) (variously, “Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
2.06.  
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. 
To this end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and
 
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that, a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that, 
the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in 
carrying out t
he
Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s 
macroeconomic policy framework. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister responsible for finance. 
 
Page  4
3
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development 
P.O. Box 8147 
Kampala 
The Republic of Uganda 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
FINSEC  61170 
  230163 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Kampala, The Republic of Uganda, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
 
By: 
/s/ Syda N. Bbumba 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
/s/ Kundhavi Kadiresan 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under 
the Program include the following: 
1. Budget 
Credibility
:
The Recipient has, in accordance with paragraph 15.2 of the 
Letter of Development Policy, section on economic management, ensured that: 
(a) actual annual budget releases for the sum of conditional grants to each of the 
four JBSF sectors (health, education, water and sanitation, and roads) were at 
least 95% of the corresponding approved budget allocations for the Fiscal Year 
2008/2009; (b) budget releases for the sum of recurrent wage expenditure across 
the four sectors, the sum of recurrent non-wage expenditure across these sectors, 
and the sum of development expenditures across these sectors were in each case 
at least 95% of the corresponding approved budget allocations for the Fiscal Year 
2008/2009; and (c) the Recipient’s Treasury has made budget releases to 
Spending Agencies  on a quarterly basis, through the end of the first quarter of 
Fiscal Year 2009/2010. 
2. 
Public Financial Management Compliance
:
In accordance with 
paragraph 
15.3 
(ii) of the Letter of Development Policy, section on good governance, the 
Recipient has made satisfactory progress in implementing its undertakings to 
develop a format for performance agreements for accounting officers including 
chief administrative officers) with an incentive and penalty system for non-
compliance with public financial management regulations. 
3.  
Public Procurement Compliance
:
In accordance with paragraph 15.3 (iii) of the 
Letter of Development Policy, section on good governance, the Recipient has 
ensured satisfactory implementation and monitoring of procurement regulations 
and systems at the central government and Local Government levels, and has 
established an agreed procurement performance indicator framework and ensured 
the availability of  baseline data. 
4. 
Performance of Public Servants
:
The Recipient has, in accordance with 
paragraph 15.3 (i) of the Letter of Development Policy, section on good 
governance, adopted the framework for attracting and retaining teachers and 
health personnel in Hard-to-Reach Areas.  
5. Health
:
In accordance with paragraph 15.4 (ii) of the Letter of Development 
Policy, section on effective delivery of and improved access to core public 
services, the Recipient has provided evidence satisfactory to the Association as to 
Page  6
5
the establishment of a human resources for health management information 
system to provide information on levels and distribution of the health workforce. 
6. Education
:
In accordance with paragraph 15.4 (i) of the Letter of Development 
Policy, section on effective delivery of and improved access to core public 
services, the Recipient has provided evidence satisfactory to the Association as to 
the signing of performance contracts, covering customized performance targets, 
with at least 90 percent of all head teachers in the 12 Districts with the weakest 
education sector indicators. 
7. Water 
and 
Sanitation
:
In accordance with paragraph 15.4 (iii) of the Letter of 
Development Policy, section on effective delivery of and improved access to core 
public services, the Recipient has provided evidence satisfactory to the 
Association that water user committees under a community based maintenance 
system are actively functioning in at least 50% of Districts, and within these 
Districts at least 40% of water points are covered by water user committees. 
8. Roads
:
In accordance with paragraphs 15.4 (iv) and (v) of the Letter of 
Development Policy, section on effective delivery of and improved access to core 
public services, the Recipient has provided evidence satisfactory to the 
Association that: (a) the board of directors as well as the executive director of the 
Road Fund have been appointed, and (b) Cabinet has approved a policy on 
strengthening national construction industry. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A.
 General. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B.
 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 The Financing is allocated in a single 
withdrawal tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the 
Financing. The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in 
the table below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
SDR 65,900,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
SDR 65,900,000 
Page  7
6
C.
 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
 
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Tranche unless the 
Association is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the 
Recipient, and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s 
macroeconomic policy framework. 
D.
 
Deposit of Financing Amounts.  
 
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter 
maintain the following two deposit accounts (“Deposit Accounts”) on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank:   
 
(a)  
a deposit account in United States Dollars (“Foreign Currency 
 
Deposit Account”); and  
 
(b) 
a deposit account in Ugandan Shillings (“Local Currency 
 Deposit 
Account”). 
2. 
All withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account.  Upon each 
deposit of an amount of the Financing into the Foreign Currency Deposit 
Account, the Recipient shall deposit an equivalent amount into the Local 
Currency Deposit Account.  All amounts withdrawn from the Local 
Currency Deposit Account shall be used exclusively for budgeted public 
expenditures.
 
E.
 Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall:
 
1. 
have both Deposit Accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, and make such 
report publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable 
to the Association; and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Accounts and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request.
 
Page  8
7
F.
 Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
G.
 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is March 31, 2012. 
 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each February 1 and August 1 
 
commencing February 1, 2021 to and 
including August 1, 2030 
1% 
commencing February 1, 2031 to and 
including August 1, 2050 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
Section I. Definitions 
1. 
“District” means a district as a unit for local administration within the context of 
the Recipient’s Local Governments Act, CAP 243.  
2. 
“Deposit Accounts” means both the Foreign Currency Deposit Account and the 
Local Currency Deposit Account. 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
Page  11
10 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
4. 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing on July 1 
and ending on June 30 of the following year. 
5. 
“Foreign Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part D. 1 
(a) of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.   
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 31, 2010 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
7. 
Hard-to-Reach Areas” means remote or insecure areas in Recipient’s territory 
that are unable to attract and retain sufficient numbers of motivated staff because 
of difficult living conditions. 
8. 
“JBSF” means joint budget support framework, a cooperation mechanism for 
strengthening dialogue in implementing budget support and involving the 
Recipient and development partners supporting the Recipient’s poverty reduction 
strategy.  
9. 
"Letter of Development Policy” means the letter dated August 19, 2010, from the 
Recipient to the Association, describing the Program (as hereinafter defined), and 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
Page  12
11 
 
10. 
“Local Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part D. 1 (b) 
of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.   
11. 
“Local Government” means a local government established and operating 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Local Governments Act, CAP 243. 
12. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the Letter of Development Policy from the Recipient to the 
Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
13. 
“Road Fund” means Uganda Road Fund, the Recipient’s entity established and 
operating pursuant to the Uganda Road Fund Act of 2008. 
14. 
“Spending Agencies” means Recipient’s ministries, departments and agencies 
identified in all government budget votes in the Recipient’s budget set out in the 
Recipient’s document entitled “Approved Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure 
FY (Recurrent and Development) 2009/10”. 
15. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
Page  13
12 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
Page  14
13 
 
