Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14902-LA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
LAND TITLING PROJECT
FEBRUARY 21, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
( As of June 30, 1995)
Currency Unit = Kip
US$1.00      = Kip 780
Kip 1.00     = US$0.00128
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
Government: October I - September 30
IDA: July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      Asian Development Bank
AIDAB   Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
AusAID   Australian Agency for International Development (formerly AIDAB)
CPC      Committee for Planning and Cooperation
CRS      Customer Relations and Services
CSA      Civil Service Administration
DOLHM   Department of Land and Housing Management, MOF
DSA      Department of State Assets, MOF
FDI      Foreign Direct Investment
FIMC     Foreign Investment Management Committee
GDP      Gross domestic product
GIS      Geographic information system
GOL      Govermment of Lao PDR
GPS      Global Positioning System, US satellite system for accurate positioning
HRD      Human Resource Development
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      International Development Association (part of World Bank)
LHMO    Land and Housing Management Office at Provincial Level
LRMC    Land Re-Management Committee
LWU      Lao Women's Union
MAF      Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MCTCP  Ministry of Communications, Transport, Construction and Posts
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MOJ       Ministry of Justice
MOU       Memorandum of Understanding
NEM      New Economic Mechanism
NGD       National Geographic Department, PMO
NGO      Non-Government Organization
OMO       Organization and Management Operations
PDR      People's Democratic Republic
PIP       Public Investment Plan
PA        Project Administrator
PMO       Prime Minister's Office
POC       Provincial Oversight Committee
PPFU      Provincial Project Facilitation Unit
PrIP      Project Implementation Plan
PSC      Project Steering Committee
PSU       Project Support Unit
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
UTM       Universal Transverse Mercator map projection



- iii -
LAO PDR
LAND TITLING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Lao PDR
Implementing Agency:     Ministry of Finance
Beneficiary:             Not Applicable
Povertv:                 The project does not fall under a program of target interventions.
However, while poverty is not a specific focus of the project, low
income landholders would benefit particularly from the project;
without the project, only the higher income landholders tend to
have their real estate titled and registered.
Amount:                  SDR 14.0 million (US$20.7 million equivalent)
Term :                   Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:          0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:          See para. 2.23
Economic Rate of Return:  Not applicable (see paras. 4.1 - 4.9)
M=:                      IBRD No. 27260
Peifect
Identification No.:      4208






- iv -
LAO PDR
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Table of Contents
PagLe No.
CREDIT  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY ...................................................................                                          iii
1. BACKGROUND ...................................................................1I
A. THE ECONOMY AND LAND USE ....................................................................1
B. NEED FOR EFFICIENT LAND USE AND ADMINISTRATION                                           ................................1
C. THE COUNTRY's LAND ADMINISTRATION  STRATEGY .....................................................3
D. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK  FOR LAND ADMINISTRATION ............................................4
E. LESSONS FROM  PREVIOUS IDA  INVOLVEMENT ...............................................................6
2. THE  PROJECT ....................................................................8
A. RATIONALE FOR IDA  INVOLVEMENT ....................................................................                           8
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION  ....................................................................8
C. DETAILED  PROJECT FEATURES ....................................................................9
Completion of a Policy and Legal Framework for Land Management and
Administration ....................................................................9
Implementation of an Accelerated Land Titling Program  ..................................... 10
Land Administration ...................................................................                             12
Project Implementation and Capacity Building ..................................................... 13
Technical Assistance and Overseas Training ......................................................... 15
D. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ...................................................................                              16
Projec      t Cost ...................................................................                               16
Financing ...................................................................                                        19
E. PROCUREMENT ...................................................................                                             20
Procurement Framework ...................................................................                           20
Procurement Arrangements ...................................................................                        22
IDA  Prior Review  ...................................................................                              23
F. DISBURSEMENTS ...................................................................                                           25
G. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS ...................................................................                                     26
3. ORGANIZATION  ...................................................................                                                      27
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ........................................................... 27
B. MONITORING  AND EVALUATION ................................................................... 29
The project was appraised by a Task Team consisting of Messrs. Frank Byamugisha (Team
Leader/Task Manager), Konrad von Ritter (Economist), Wael Zakout (Civil Engineer), Federico
Gimenez (Procurement Specialist), Mostafa El-Erian (Country Lawyer), Trithep
Lohavisavapanich (Economist, FAO/CP), Lynn Holstein (Land Administration Specialist,
Consultant), and Thaddeus Jankowski (Land Valuation Specialist, Consultant). Mr. Cliff Brock
of AusAID participated in the appraisal mission. Messrs. Gershon Feder (EA3AG) and Akihiko
Nishio (EA3AG) were the peer reviewers. The Division Chief was Mr. Jeffrey Gutman
(EAIAE) and the Director was Mr. Callisto Madavo (EAI). Secretarial support was provided by
Ms. Sarian Wilkinson.



v -
4. BENEFITS, COSTS AND RISKS ..............................................                                      31
A. EXPECTED  BENEFITS AND BENEFICIARIES .............................................                   31
B. FISCAL IMPACT .............................................                                          32
C. COST RECOVERY .............................................                                          34
D. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT .............................................                                   35
E. SOCIAL IMPACT .............................................                                          35
F. GENDER ISSUES .............................................                                          35
G. SUSTAINABILITY .............................................                                         36
H. RISKS .............................................                                                   37
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                         .         ................................ 38
Agreements Obtained During Negotiations .............................................          38
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness .............................................               40
Conditions of Disbursement .............................................                       40
TABLES IN TEXT
2.1 (a)    Project Cost Summary by Components                                            .17
2.1(b)            Project Cost Summary by Expenditures .18
2.2  Financing Plan .20
2.3               Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements .24
4.1               Projection of Revenues From Land-Related Taxes .33
ANNEXES
Annex 1:  Summary Cost Tables .41
Annex 2:  Disbursement Schedule .43
Annex 3:   Projections of Title Production .44
Annex 4:          Estimate of Government Revenue Generated by the Project .45
Annex 5:  Key Performance Indicators .46
Annex 6:    Technical Assistance and Terms of Reference .47
Annex 7: TORs for PA .63
Annex 8:  TORs for Studies .75
Annex 9:    Summary of Procurement Packages and Scheduling .83
Annex 10:  Bank Supervision Plan .85
Annex 11:         Organization Plan and Description of the Functions of Various Units Involved in
Project Management and Coordination .87
Annex 12:  Organizational Chart .96
Annex 13:  Documents in the Project File .97
MAP               IBRD 27260



1. BACKGROUND
A. THE ECONOMY AND LAND USE
1.1   The Lao economy is among the least developed in the world, with an average per
capita income of about US$290 (1994). With a population of about 4.5 million people
for a total area of 236,000 sq. km, the country has a low population density of 17 persons
per sq. km, but population is growing at 2.9 percent per year. About 89 percent of the
people live in some 11,000 rural villages, engaged mainly in agriculture which accounts
for about 55 percent of GDP. Approximately 87 percent of employment is in agriculture
which dominates land use.
1.2  In 1993-94, there was a total of 394,417 hectares (ha) of land in use and subject
to tax. Paddy and rice fields comprised 65 percent of the total area. Some 15 percent of
the Lao households were in possession of irrigated land and 64 percent possessed dry
land. The average size of cultivated holdings for Lao households is 1.4 ha. Only 29,928
ha of land were utilized for construction.
1.3   While the country is predominantly agricultural, it is the urban areas that are
experiencing the fastest growth, both in total population and household formation. For
example, the national population grew from 3.6 to 4.5 million or an increase of 24
percent, in the period 1985 to 1993, but the Vientiane municipality increased by 32
percent, from 381,000 to 503,000 people. The difference is more pronounced in terms of
household or family numbers. Nationally, the number of families or households increased
from 601,797 to 685,230, or 14 percent, from 1985 to 1993, compared to an increase of
33 percent for Vientiane, which increased from 61,561 to 81,643 households. As the
population and economic activities increase in urban areas, so does demand for land and
the need to improve efficiency of land use and land administration.
B. NEED FOR EFFICIENT LAND USE AND ADMINISTRATION
1.4   Since around 1986, the economy has been in transition from a centrally planned to
a market system. A major element of the Government's policy in supporting the
transition has been the development of efficient markets for land, capital and labor to
complement improvements in the capacity of the public sector to both plan and
implement development programs. Efficient land markets and security of land tenure, on
which they depend, are important in order to permit land to get allocated to its most
efficient use and users and to encourage land-related investments and sustainable use of
land. While land markets are now in existence, the difficulty is that they do not operate
efficiently, effectively or openly. Commercial investors are finding it difficult to obtain
access to land that is most appropriate for their investments. Land is being traded but the
turnover figures, as measured by recorded land transactions, are not high and transactions
are hampered by the problems of establishing occupancy and use ownership rights. There
is a prevalence of illegal possession, sale and use of land and a large number of court
cases relating to land, many of which are hampered by lack of ascertainable rights to and



- 2 -
clear information on land; all these represent symptoms of an inefficient land market.
Moreover, the great majority of the sale transactions are not registered. And since land
registration is not common, there are foregone opportunities of using land as collateral to
obtain loans from banks.
1.5   Another missing link in the necessary framework for efficient land use has been
the absence of a land valuation profession and capacity in Lao PDR. A land valuation
function is important for both the Government and the private sector in their activities
related to economic development. The Government would benefit from an improved
valuation capacity, as it needs it to determine the values of land and other properties for
purposes of assessing rental tax, land registration fees and land tax. The Ministry of
Finance's (MOF) Department of State Assets (DSA) needs to develop a valuation
capacity to enable it to determine the most appropriate lease terms for the properties that
are being leased out to the private sector as well as compensation values for properties
acquired by the Government. On the private sector side, the banking industry represents
the largest known demand for valuation related services. Mortgage lending activity is
very small, due in large part to the lack of a complete and trusted system of registration
but also due to the lack of reliable estimates of value on which to base the loan.
1.6   Land titles were originally established with the creation of the Land Book in SR
1,912 and were kept in force under the Royal Order - Law No. 135 of 23 May 1958.
These titles certified ownership of land and were supported by cadastral plans and maps
for the towns of Vientiane, Pakse, Savannakhet, and Luang Prabang. While these
original records were not maintained, there were a number of subsequent initiatives made
for the establishment and maintenance of cadastral systems but they could not be
sustained and were eventually abandoned after 1975. After 1975, despite the fact that all
land became vested in the State, land use rights were informally recognized and a process
of administering and recording transactions with those rights developed. This basic
process is still in place today and, although the land use rights now have legal standing
and registration of transactions with those rights is required by law, the system is one of
registration of transactions not involving certification of title. Furthermore, even this
system is not in place uniformly in all areas of the country and, even in those areas in
which it is in place, it is not being fully used by the people.
1.7   The number of land parcels in Lao PDR is not known as data to determine the
exact number are not currently available. However, an estimate of 1.6 million land
parcels has been made. Although legislation to fully support registration of title to land is
not yet in place, the Lao PDR Government commenced in June 1994 a pilot project to
issue titles to land in Vientiane Prefecture, but only about 300 titles were issued. A
follow up Pilot Project issued about 1,000 titles between July 1995 and February 1996.
In Savannakhet province, a total ofjust 2,400 titles were issued by the end of 1995. Part
of the cause of low registration rates was lack of documentary evidence which will be
addressed under the proposed project. Approaches to addressing it are being tested in
operational trials which were initiated in July 1995 ahead of the project (see paras. 2.8-
2.11).



-3 -
1.8   Two important land administration and management challenges to the country
are: (i) the need for accelerated land registration and titling to enable the provision of
incentives to landholders to manage land resources efficiently and sustainably; and (ii)
the need to expand land titling programs so as to facilitate the development of mortgage
markets that are essential for financial sector development. The two challenges are
central to the justification and design of the proposed project.
C. THE COUNTRY'S LAND ADMINISTRATION STRATEGY
1.9   Since 1990, the Government has addressed the lack of comprehensive and
consistent land management and administration policy with increasing urgency. The
focus is on the need for more efficient and transparent land markets and their regulation
and for improvement in the sustainable management of land, water and forest resources
in rural areas. The Constitution promulgated in 1991 affirmed the rights of individuals to
use the land. The Fifth Party Congress (March 1991) identified the need to accelerate
land registration and issue land title certificates so that each plot will have a legal owner.
The policy elements outlined in the following paragraphs represent the next steps towards
achieving the goal of efficient land markets. Land management and administration
policies are reflected in the decrees that followed the promulgation of the Constitution in
1991. The five basic decrees are: Property Law (1990), Land Decree (99 PM), Land Tax
Decree (50 PM), Document Registration Decree (52 PM) and the Forest Management and
Land Use Decree (169 PM). A recently promulgated Decree (186 PM) covers the
allocation of forest lands with reference to allocation of lands to plantation forestry.
1.10  Key elements of land management policy, as reflected in the Decrees, are as
follows:
(a)   provision of a system of tradable occupancy and use rights and secure and
legally enforceable title for selected categories of land use (Decree 99);
(b)   increased emphasis on provision of incentives in the form of land rights
for community groups and villages in exchange for tax breaks and a
commitment to manage particular land categories such as community
forest land in a sustainable manner (Decrees 169 and 186); and
(c)   change in the role of the Government to emphasize zoning, demarcation
and provision of assistance to rural land users to improve productive and
sustainable land use practices (Decree 169).
1.11  For land administration, the key elements of policy are
(a)   improving resource mobilization from the allocation and transfer of land
through the introduction of a new set of land taxes and collection
arrangements including a registration and titling program (Decrees 50 and
99); and



- 4 -
(b)   establishing the institutional arrangements and capacities of the agencies
responsible for the implementation of land administration programs
including registration and titling (Decrees 52, 104 and 128).
1.12  The twin land management and administration policy objectives are to improve
resource management and the more productive use of land resources through provision of
incentives to users, and to improve the regulatory capacity of the Government to ensure
that the benefits of more efficient land markets are more equitably shared.
1.13  The Government's strategy has as its next step the implementation of a land
registration system and the issuing of titles to all landholders. This is recognized in the
current Public Investment Program 1994-2000 (PIP), which nominates Land Titling as a
key project requiring capital investment funds. The PIP states the Government's
commitment to the development of a land titling system so that clear land use rights can
be provided, private sector investment encouraged, credit markets developed and a source
of government revenue provided through the sale of land use rights and taxes on land
transactions.
D. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR LAND ADMINISTRATION
1.14  Department of Land and Housinz Management (DOLHM). DOLHM is the core
national agency responsible for the design and implementation of land management and
administration programs. The mandate as defined by the Prime Minister's Office Decree
(No. 104) dated 6 July 1993 is to carry out, under the direction of the Land Re-
Management Committee, the design and supervision of national land registration and
titling programs through the offices of the provincial services. The DOLHM has limited
resources and capabilities, a factor that needs to be fully recognized in the formulation of
a national land registration program. The total staff of DOLHM are 19, of which 5 have
had university level training (3 with specific land related training), 9 have technical level
training (I with land training) and 4 have on the job training (3 with land related
training).
1.15  Department of State Assets (DSA). The DSA is responsible for the registration,
supervision and maintenance of the assets in the form of property, land and enterprises
owned by the State. The DSA is the holder of the national Government shares in
enterprises which are divested through privatization. The DSA has been the major player
in the privatization program and maintains a register of national Government entities that
have been privatized. The DSA is responsible for registering leases between foreign
investors and Lao entities relating to state property. It also maintains the register of all
leases between parties. Provincial level state assets divisions carry out the same functions
for provincial Government owned assets; so considerable overlap in functions occurs
particularly in Vientiane Prefecture where DSA carries out a hands on registration
program in parallel with the Prefecture administration.
1.16 Land Re-Management Committee. The Land Re-Management Committee
(LRMC) was established in March 1994 under Prime Ministerial Decree No. 42/PM to



-5-
provide policy direction and implementation assistance across institutions at all levels.
The eleven person committee is chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister and Chairperson of
CPC supported by the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture. These are all ex-officio
members. Additional representation consists of Vice Ministers of Industry and the
Ministry of Interior. The Director of DOLHM acts as secretariat to the Committee and is
supported by an officer of the Vientiane Municipality The core technical support to the
LRMC is limited to that provided by the DOLHM and the municipality staff which, given
the number of ex-officio members, limits the effectiveness of the Land Re-Management
Committee in policy and strategy formulation and oversight of its implementation.
1.17  The mandate of the Committee is to oversee the implementation of Decree 99 on
land (issued December 19, 1992) and Decree 52 on document registration (issued March
13, 1993) and guide the preparation of land management policy and programs at national
and provincial level. These activities are directed through the DOLHM with direct
operational linkages to the provincial financial services. Each province is required to
establish a Land Re-Management Committee to oversee activities at that level.
1.18  The National Land Re-Management Committee is proposed to have an important
land management policy making function. The objectives of the Land Re-Management
Committee are to provide policy and program design guidance to DOLHM in the areas of
demarcation, registration and titling, adjudication and resolution of land disputes and the
compilation of a land administration data base.
1.19  Provincial Agencies. Administratively, the country is divided into 17 Provinces
plus one special region and further divided into 129 Districts (see Map). At the provincial
level the Division of Finance carries out the major functions relating to land management.
The Divisions of Finance have 7 offices with tax, lands and housing and state assets, the
three units involved in land management. The Financial Services Division mirrors the
functions of the national level MOF and is responsible for conducting field programs
such as registration and related activities and tax assessment and collection through the
offices of the district administration. Provincial and district agencies are implementing
arms of central government agencies which are responsible for providing policy and
technical guidance.
1.20 The Land and Housing Management Office (LHMO) is responsible for the
implementation of the DOLHM policies and programs specifically, operating the current
registration system and assessment of land taxation requirements. The LHMO has two
units: Land titling records and cadastral survey; and land tax.
1.21  The district level administration provides an important function in the formal
document registration and land tax collection system. The district office follows the
procedures defined in the formal procedures pertinent to the particular transaction and the
type of land classification. The formats and the process are controlled by the head of the
district LHMO. The district level land officer represents the provincial administration in
carrying out land registration activities including the preparation of the necessary plans



-6-
and documentation. The district officer provides the access to the service users and
village level and carries out programs designed by the provincial administration. The
district is responsible for the identification of 8 classifications of land based on
information from formal and informal transactions.
1.22  The district lands officer supported by the village headman (nai baan) provides the
documentation including tax certification and proof of ownership together with the
required witnesses and documentation to the provincial office which certifies and signs
the document to the land. The provincial level maintains the register although copies are
kept at the district level office. The district office plays an important role in the dispute
resolution process if it cannot be resolved at the village level, invariably with the
assistance of the village head man.
1.23  Other Agencies Involved in Land Management. Other agencies involved in land
management are the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) and the Ministry of
Communications, Transport, Constructions and Posts (MCTCP). MAF is responsible for
agriculture and forest land use management. A major focus has been on land demarcation
between forests and agricultural land and attempting to develop incentives for
communities to manage land resources sustainably in exchange for community land use
rights to traditionally controlled village lands. The linkages to a formal land titling
program and the role of incentives (including possible provision of title) in improving
resource management in rural areas need to be addressed as a priority; a study to address
these will be supported under the proposed project (see para. 2.15 (c)). MCTCP, through
the Department of Housing and Town Planning, has a mandate to facilitate the urban
planning and development activities at provincial level.
1.24 Also having a key role in a titling program is the National Geographic Department
(NGD). The Department has the responsibility for carrying out mapping within the
country and is administered separately from DOLHM, coming under the auspices of the
Prime Minister's Office. In addition, the Ministry of Justice (MOJ) is responsible for the
drafting of laws and decrees and will play a role in the further development of land laws.
E. LESSONS FROM PREvIous IDA INVOLVEMENT
1.25  IDA has had no experience with land administration projects in Lao PDR.
However, it has supported and is currently supporting projects in the agricultural and
natural resources sector. A review of project performance in Project Completion Reports
and in Operations Evaluation Department's (OED's) Project Audits has rated all past
projects as unsatisfactory. Implementation has generally been constrained by
inappropriate macro and sectoral policies, weak institutions, and a poor human resource
and infrastructure base.
1.26 The World Bank's experience with supporting land titling projects world-wide
has been mixed, with success recorded primarily in the Thailand projects, but with less
success recorded in most of the other projects. According to the review of these projects
by the World Bank's Environment Division in a report entitled The World Bank's



-7-
Experience with Rural Land Titling (report no. 1992-35, March 1992), the factors which
contributed to poor performance of land projects include: (i) lack of political support; (ii)
conflicting bureaucratic priorities and/or infighting; (iii) lack of institutional capacity or
unwillingness to commit adequate resources; and (iv) underestimation of complexity
and/or costs, or other design weaknesses. On the other hand, the factors responsible for
success in the Thailand land titling projects include: (i) simple project design, with only
one single objective of land titling and one single agency responsible for project
implementation; (ii) strong government commitment to the project; (iii) a graduated
increase in cost recovery; (iv) specially formed and trained systematic adjudication teams
which involved the communities concerned; and (iv) use of efficient new technologies.
1.27 The key lessons drawn from Bank experience with land titling projects would
point to the following factors to enhance project success. EirL, projects should be
designed simply, with minimal objectives and a single implementing agency, with clear
and well functioning management links at provincial or regional level. Second, projects
should be designed on the basis of the borrower's existing human skills and institutional
arrangements, augmented by training and technical assistance, and appropriate staff
incentives. Third, projects should focus on existing land rights, and not on addressing
reallocation of existing rights, and should be consistent with the Government's own plans
to address land use questions.
1.28  The above lessons have been used in project design in the following ways. Eirt,
a simple project design has been followed, with the project objectives limited to land
titling and valuation and with one lead agency responsible for project implementation.
Second, in order to overcome human resource problems and lack of experience in project
implementation, the project has been preceded by grant funding in support of pre-
implementation activities including a land titling pilot, project management training,
development of a legal and policy framework, and technical assistance. In addition, a lot
of emphasis is given to use of private contracting (domestic and international) to
overcome human resource constraints in project management and implementation, though
ensuring continuous cooperation with the public sector, working with local government
officials, and training of counterparts to ensure sustainability. Third, the project is
focused on registration of existing rights, and does not attempt to address land reform
issues.



-8 -
2. THE PROJECT
A. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
2.1   The Country Assistance Strategy for Lao PDR (dated January 18, 1996, and
discussed by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors on February 22, 1996) lists poverty
alleviation and the improvement of the standard of living for the Lao people as its main
objectives. Economic growth, which is a necessary condition for poverty alleviation,
requires that the appropriate economic infrastructure and enabling environment for
private investment be in place. The lack of land markets poses a problem for domestic
and foreign investors. The country assistance strategy highlights the importance of
alleviating the present uncertainties associated with the lack of clear titles and recording
of land transactions in order to create an enabling environment for economic growth.
2.2        IDA involvement in the project has been guided by two principles: (i)
comparative advantage; and (ii) partnership with Government and other donors. The
Bank has considerable experience in supporting land titling projects (see paras. 1.25-1.28)
and is therefore well positioned to support the proposed project. Furthermore, the Bank
has, in partnership with AusAID, supported successful land titling projects in Thailand
and Indonesia, and this partnership, in the form of co-financing, will continue in the
proposed project. The project itself has evolved out of the dialogue between the
Government and donors in the framework of supporting the country's transition from a
centrally planned to a market economy. Support for the development of efficient land
markets is included as a priority activity in the country's Public Investment Program to
the Year 2000.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
2.3   The overall goal of the project is to strengthen the basis for long term sustainable
economic and social development. In conformity with this goal, the objectives of the
project are to foster the development of efficient land markets and to facilitate domestic
resource mobilization by providing a system of clear and enforceable land use ownership
rights, and by developing a land valuation capacity.
2.4   The project would support the first seven years of a longer term national land
titling program (which would be developed during implementation) aimed at extending
secure land ownership and developing land administration and valuation systems,
including compiling a cadastral mapping system. The main components of the project
are:
(a)   completion of the policy and legal framework for land management and
administration (US$0.4 million);
(b)   implementation of an accelerated land titling program (US$19.9 million
including US$4.0 million for base mapping, US$15.2 million for
systematic registration and US$0.7 million for sporadic registration);



-9-
(c)   improvements in the infrastructure, facilities and systems for land
administration (US$2.7 million);
(d)   improvements in land valuation (US$0.8 million);
(e)   support for project management and implementation, and institutional
strengthening (US$4.0 million); and
(f)   studies on community land tenure and registration, definition of forest
boundaries, cost recovery, land rights issues on nationalized lands and
socio-economic impact of land titling (US$0.6 million).
2.5   The systematic titling program would be undertaken in Vientiane Prefecture and
in the urban and peri-urban areas of the four provinces of Luang Prabang, Vientiane,
Savannakhet and Champassak. The Prefecture and the four provinces were selected to
provide a wide range of locations throughout the country. Other criteria for selection
were: (i) potential high economic and population growth; (ii) high rate of payment of
land tax; and (iii) minimum forest areas.
2.6   Districts within the provinces were selected based on the same criteria as for the
selection of the provinces. For the first phase of the Project, districts which contain major
urban areas would be undertaken, followed by adjacent districts.
2.7   The sporadic titling program, which involves issuance of titles on a demand basis,
would be started initially in three provinces where there is potential high demand.
Specific provinces to be covered by sporadic titling would be selected annually by the
Project Steering Committee as part of the approval process for the annual work plan and
budget.
C. DETAILED PROJECT FEATURES
Completion of a Policy and Legal Framework for Land Management and Administration
2.8    This sub-component would support the current activities of the MOF and
Ministry of Justice (MOJ) in applying existing regulations and preparing future land
legislation to improve the legal basis for land management and administration by
providing an overall policy framework within which such laws may be developed. Land
management and administration policy would be reviewed and action taken to address
deficiencies and inconsistencies starting with the areas to be studied as listed in paragraph
2.4 (f) above. Laws and regulations would be developed, continuing from the work
commenced under the Pilot Project initiated in 1994, to: (i) address the legal constraints
to the titling program; (ii) ensure secure legal status of land titles; and (iii) support the on-
going registration of transactions.
2.9   The first pilot project resulted in the issuance of titles for only 300 parcels out of a
target number of about 2,900 parcels (about 10 percent registration rate). The results of



-10-
the pilot highlighted some problems which have influenced the design of the proposed
project and prompted the Government to seek support for operational trials ahead of the
main project. The key problem was the ineligibility of parcels for registration either
because the landholders had no documents (50 percent) or had unregistered documents
(30 percent). In addition, some landholders who had unpaid land taxes and transfer taxes
were reluctant to participate in land registration, fearing they would be required to pay
outstanding taxes.
2.10  To achieve registration rates of successful land titling programs (e.g., the Thailand
Land Titling Project achieved a 79 percent registration rate), the Government has decided
to use more realistic standards of evidence of land possession (including consideration of
non-documentary evidence) and to introduce an option to issue provisional/qualified titles
with a provision for their automatic maturation into full land use rights after a specified
number of years (about three) if no successful challenge has been made against the titles.
2.11   A Ministerial Instruction (MD 990) on new procedures for land registration was
issued on September 27, 1995. To reflect the above policy considerations, the Instruction
includes provisions for: (i) the empowerment of systematic adjudication teams; (ii) the
regulation of the issuance of titles; (iii) issuance of provisional titles; and (iv) clarification
of institutional arrangements. The new procedures of land registration included in the
Ministerial Instruction were tested under the Second Pilot Land Titling Project which
commenced during July 1995 and was completed in February 1996. Under the Pilot a
systematic adjudication approach was successfully introduced and used to register 80
percent of the targeted 1,200 parcels, including state land. During negotiations.
assurances were obtained that the Governent would not later than September 30. 1996
submit to IDA for p   aroval the proposed time-bound action plan for implementing
the lessons learned and recommendatiions derived from the Pro.ject Preparation operation
trials undertaken prior to credit effectiveness. Once approved by IDA. the Government
would immediately undertake all necessary measures to implement the recommendations
duly taking into account IDA's comments. The Govemnment would issue not later than
January 31. 1997, Implementing Regulations to the land-related decrees satisfactory to
IDA, incorporating the lessons learned from the operational trials. The Regulations
would set forth the procedures for the issuance  registration, adjudication. and
enforceability of land transfer, occupancy and use rights. Already, there is a Government
Committee which has started drafting a Land Law that will be furnished to IDA for
review as soon as a draft is ready. If the Land Law supersedes the decrees, regulations to
the Land Law will be prepared under the project..
Implementation of an Accelerated Land Titling Program
2.12  A major objective of the project is to support the Government's initiatives in
accelerating the issuance of land titles and building up DOLHM's capacity in land
registration and administration. This would be assisted through: (i) the production of
base maps; (ii) the development and conduct of a systematic adjudication and registration
program of land parcels in five jurisdictions; and (iii) support in selected provinces for



improvements in the on-going sporadic adjudication and registration activities. In the
first two years, the emphasis would be on building and improving the institutional,
technical, human resource and regulatory foundation of systematic adjudication and
registration. Support for sporadic adjudication and registration would include staff
training, regulatory and procedural improvements and provision of equipment, vehicles
and development funds for land registration. This component would include the
following five sub-components:
(a)   Base Mapping. This would support production of maps using a photo
base, including map control, aerial photography, and photogrammetric
mapping. Funds would be provided for NGD's building
extension/renovation, training, mapping equipment and map production.
For the first three years of the project, most of the base mapping would be
contracted out while NGD's capacity is being strengthened. Upon its
evaluation, NGD would then be considered to undertake a significant
proportion of the mapping thereafter if it can do it efficiently. Aerial
photography would be undertaken to cover a total surface area of about
465,000 ha, with about 2,300 rectified and enlarged mapsheets made for
the project. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that all
required security clearances, approvals, licenses, permits and permissions
would be provided promptly for undertaking aerial photography and. it
necessary. for processing outside the territorv of Lao PDR of photogaphic
negatives produced as a result of aerial photographic activities. In
addition: assurances were also obtained that MOF and NGD would enter
into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) providing for the transfer of
project funds to NGD before disbursement can be made to support aerial
photography and the production of maps under NGD. A draft MOU was
reviewed during negotiations.
(b)   Systematic Adjudication and Registration. This would involve: (i)
development, testing and refinement of new systematic adjudication and
registration procedures; (ii) field work for systematic registration in
project areas; (iii) preparation of records and certificates and their
distribution to land holders; and (iv) filing of the records in the Provincial
land offices. The project would provide assistance for the development of
a legal and institutional framework for registration , and meeting the costs
of vehicles, equipment, field work and registration of documents in the
provincial offices. The build up of a large number of permanent staff to
carry out this work is not feasible or sustainable, because of current civil
service hiring restrictions, and as this first time registration work is a one
time activity. Therefore, a combination of public and private sector
approaches and the use of temporary employees have been incorporated
into the project design. Based on limited staff in the project provinces and
staff available in other agencies including NGD, MAF and MCTPC who
can be seconded to the project and the contracting of personnel from the



-12-
private and public sectors, about 19 adjudication teams (350 staff) would
be mobilized to survey and adjudicate about 300,000 parcels over seven
years. They would undertake work in Vientiane Prefecture and Province,
and in the provinces of Savannakhet, Champassak and Luang Prabang.
(c)   Sporadic Adjudication. At least three selected provinces not included in
the systematic registration component would receive support to imnprove
their existing sporadic first time registration procedures and facilities.
Sporadic adjudication and registration would include a review of
procedures, their improvement and their implementation. In addition,
each provincial land office would be provided with a vehicle, survey and
office equipment, and development funds to better carry out sporadic
registration. A total of about 22,900 parcels would be surveyed and
adjudicated under this sub-project.
(d)   Training in Support of Systematic and Sporadic Adjudication. Training
would be provided: to NGD staff on the use of GPS; on management of
systematic and sporadic registration processes for provincial land offices;
and on systematic registration process to surveyors, registration parties
and land offices, including the training of trainers in systematic
registration, community relations and services, and briefing sessions for
local government officials. For the non-systematic provinces, the training
would be in sporadic registration and customer relations and services only.
(e)   Customer Relations and Services (CRS). This sub-component would
support the implementation of the systematic adjudication and registration
activities by ensuring that landholders and other people involved in the
project have the necessary information to effectively participate in the land
titling program. This would be achieved through town, village, and door
step meetings, radio and newspaper advertisements and announcements,
training in CRS for the systematic adjudication teams and briefings for
local government officials. Funds would be provided for training, staff
development, transport, and equipment.
Land Administration
2.13  The land titling program will place new and additional pressures on the Vientiane
Prefecture and the four provincial and district offices in project provinces in terms of
increasing volumes of land transactions and records. The project would support the long-
term development of land administration systems to improve efficiency and service
delivery, ensure the security of land records and sustain the land titling program after
project completion. It would support: (i) reviews of systems and procedures; (ii)
improvement of records management systems and security, including the development of
a computerized land registration system in selected provinces and development of a land
records management policy which would include consideration for safety of land



- 13 -
documents and timely access to the documents for use in land transactions and land
management and administration; (iii) improvement in provincial land office facilities,
including new provincial land offices and provision of secure office storage, equipment
and materials; (iv) training land office staff; and (v) development and implementation of
customer relations services. Similar support would also be provided for sporadic
registration activities in other selected provinces.
Land Valuation
2.14  The project would assist the MOF in increasing its revenue collection from land
registration services, state land management including leasing and, in the medium term,
from land taxes, through the development of improved and more equitable systems of
valuation. A major focus of the component would be human resource and skills
development, especially by the establishment of a valuation course in a Lao institution.
Use would also be made of the Bangkok Institute of Technology's valuation course for
both education and training. Another component would establish a sales and rental
valuation data base, initially for Vientiane Municipality and subsequently for other major
urban areas, followed by development of valuation systems, preparation of manuals for
valuation staff development and training. In addition, support would be given to the
development of a land valuation policy and legislation. International and national
valuation specialists would be supported under the Project to work with the staff of MOF.
Project Implementation and Capacity Building
2.15  The project would strengthen DOLHM's capacity in project planning,
management, and monitoring and evaluation of the land titling program. It would support
the following sub-components:
(a)   Project Management. It would strengthen the PSU in DOLHM which
would be established prior to project effectiveness. It would provide
vehicles, office equipment and training of staff and funds for project
management, procurement, disbursement and support in project planning,
budgeting, coordinating, monitoring and evaluation, and the preparation of
progress reports. In addition, funds would also be provided for contracting
the Project Administrator (PA), whose responsibilities would be to assist
the Project Director and Manager in the management of the project,
including procurement, contract supervision, implementation planning and
monitoring, and financial management (see para. 3.7 for details on the
responsibilities of PA).
(b)   General Strengthening of the Institutions. This would aim to strengthen
the organizational capabilities of DOLHM and of the project provinces to
effectively implement the Government's land titling program. An
important input would be the undertaking and implementation of a human
resources development strategy and operation and management studies
which would guide DOLHM to achieve the most effective and efficient



-14-
use of its human resources and to build an organizational and management
structure that can support a modem land titling and administration system.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
would, by November 30. 1996, prepare and submit to IDA for its prior
approval the terms of reference of the socio-economic baseline survey and
impact study, the community land tenure study, the forest boundary
definition study. the land fees and cost recovery study, the study on
efficiency and land rights issues of nationalized land. the human resource
development study and the organizational management and operation
study and a time-based plan for undertaking them. Upon receipt of IDA's
approval, the Government would promptly carry out each study and
submit to IDA for review and comments the draft report of each study
together with the proposed work plan and related budget for implementing
its recommendations. Once approved by IDA, the Government would
immediately take all measures necessarv to implement the
recommendations with due diligence and efficiency.
(c)   Long-Term Development of Land Administration. This would support a
number of studies that would investigate issues relating to land
administration, the results of which will assist the GOL and DOLHM in
the formulation of procedures to sustain the development of a long term
land administration system. There are five studies. First, a community
land tenure study would be initiated during the first year of the project to
investigate and recommend appropriate registration procedures for areas
with community land tenure arrangements. Second, a land fees and cost-
recovery study would be initiated during the second year of the project to
review the fees being charged for land titling and transfer in order to
generate options for recovering the costs of land registration. Third, a
forest boundary definition study would be initiated during the second year
of the project to investigate and recommend appropriate procedures of
delineating and registering land adjacent to forests. Fourth, a socio-
economic baseline survey would be initiated during the first year of the
project and a follow-up survey initiated during the final year of the project
to measure the socio-economic impact of land titling. And a fifth study
would deal with efficiency and land right issues on nationalized lands; this
would be initiated during the second year of the project. The draft terms
of reference for these studies can be found in Annex 8. During
negotiations. assurances were obtained that: the Government would, by
November 30, 1996, submit to IDA for review and comments the terms
reference of these studies and a time-based plan for undertaking them.
Upon completion, the draft Reports of each study and a plan to implement
the recommendations of each study would be furnished to IDA for review
and comments before the recommendations are implemented.



- 15 -
(d)   Education and Training. This sub-component would aim at raising the
skill levels of the staff of DOLHM, DSA, NGD, Vientiane Prefecture and
provincial land offices. Project support would include in-country training
on project management, IDA's procurement procedures, and basic
computer and English courses.
Technical Assistance and Overseas Training
2.16  Technical Assistance. Detailed technical assistance arrangements are presented in
Annex 6. The technical expertise would be involved in the introduction and
implementation of base mapping and systematic adjudication and registration, land
administration and land valuation. The responsibilities of technical assistance would
include technology transfer to counterparts, and support of the actual implementation.
Project administration training would be undertaken by the staff of the PA (see Annex 7).
2.17 The TA has been designed in such a manner that minimal additional
administrative demands would be placed on DOLHM to support the program itself.
Sufficient resources have been budgeted to support the mobilization, management,
coordination and support of the various technical assistance activities. The TA
encompasses 216 man-months of intemational expertise and 296 man-months of
expertise to be obtained locally.
2.18  Overseas Education. Training. Work Experience, and Stdy Tours. The overall
plan for overseas education and training is contained in Annex 6 (Table 2). The project
would support investments in the staff development necessary to ensure the successful
implementation and sustainability of this land titling program. Because of staff
shortages, the need for counterpart staff, and the presence of most of the intemational
specialists in the first two years of the project, most of the short term training and
scholarships have been designed to occur in the last two years of the project. Overseas
scholarships include 226 person-months, plus 107 person-months of short term training
and study tours. Long-term overseas education includes undergraduate and diploma
courses in surveying, digital mapping, valuation, land administration, land information
systems, valuation, and public administration. Staff selected for the education and
training courses would be from DOLHM, DSA, Vientiane Prefecture, the provincial
offices, and NGD. Training for project management would be included in the PA sub-
component.
2.19  The short-term training includes formal courses and a series of two month's work
experience training in international organizations with comparable responsibilities in a
range of technical areas. A series of group study tours have also been planned, where
groups of personnel would travel to international agencies to study selected land
administration matters and review current initiatives for improved efficiency in land
administration. During negotiations. assurances were obtained that the Government
would provide to IDA for prior approval by August 31 of each year beginning August 31.
1996 a proposed training program and budget for the central government and provincial



- 16-
staff involved in the project; once approved by IDA. the Government would immediately
take all measures to implement the program taking into account IDA's comments.
D. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
project Costs
2.20  The total project costs are estimated at US$28.38 million, including taxes and
duties (US$1.15 million), and physical and price contingencies (US$3.68 million). The
foreign exchange component is estimated to be million (60 percent). A large proportion
of the total project costs (over 45 percent) relate to investments in the legal and policy
framework, institutional and physical infrastructure and in capacity building that would
support a longer term program of land titling and administration that goes beyond the
project's time frame; therefore only about 55 percent of the costs relate directly to the
immediate production of land titles.
2.21  Project costs are summarized in Tables 2.1(a) and (b), and further details are
provided in Annex 1. Project costs include about US$28.07 million (99 percent) in
investment and development costs and US$0.31 million (1 percent) in recurrent costs.
Project costs include costs defined as capital costs in economic terms, including those
costs involved in creating an asset in the form of a new property cadastre, which is
expected to produce a stream of benefits over a number of years, and development costs
needed to develop the land titles. The recurrent costs include salaries and allowances,
operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment, office operating costs related to
the strengthening of DOLHM's service delivery and capacities in project planning and



6'tHl     09        8E'V8Z  9- LI  W-:ZT    S'al'S         6 90ECfl   9Mg 8               w*00    I i
CftZ     S       tlo       tLZ    gSt't      Z'9C9    vtL'L
9 0       98   Sl     0   ' FO         T'O  -'8EI          6 101     991                   c.
0001       9        O,L'N     f91      858     5'9vi61     69'WZt   9't'9   :-        -1Z
ZVZ       001       SS'O      S50      OffO    6tZt        8'6Zt     I- - -  - 
0'91      .6  WE              WE       O'    LV'ELg      P 9,TlW    VZ i8wu i9&iiODP
Z+       .6 M      6.   0    OVa      6Y0   90519         Z S5      VbL      - . -     - - h -
0a01      6L        LVZ       W1   - O        Ez6 1   EIS'l          TI,  -         :     ::-
6 99       iS       ZS'91     8W8 8     9'L   6fOWfl -   V,,9    [956'S
#t        DP*       SSt       ZO      S Q    5'E - . 94            6'LZ        -      3     U
O'Zt      9*        950! O    19t      L5    - 9'LS0' 8   YOWEL   9'Liv          uopuopnfpy
97Z       69       9K 5         E'C    WI    8W6E't    Zt#66Z    9*C0I                 ffiqIfl
8 1       Z6                           tO.    0'1E 5        ZTI      S'S Z 571E
':.  .tpaj  'r- -           ,,            'j "   '   ,wa-:
-g tz-Ip.j
IV 0    ,  .e            , ,(ImfN S .)                   '*9~ '1)             ,:     .       , ,',.
suauodmoj *Cq  umwS $503  fozad i(s) I'Z alqt.L
*(6-t tund aos) ia4osd atpjo uoipldmoo
uodn SUuIDUVUT JlIl JOAO Xf} 0$ $U3UIMUflA0o9 a4  lquu  pploX  eW4 SaMSeatU AXfAO-O0I
0so3 2uoxws am aiauL  sisLq BumTlU op e uo si vui Aq Su!oueu 'iu       a  puet (u3osod 1)
s$soO po(foA d p jo uoipodozd lletus e $uusaidas X3p 'uo!w$uawoldum IT1psS333fl on XoAwe
amu saompuodxa $uol3oa asatfL J suoiwado uolenTUA pueL s,5o0   pue 'uo!wwuatu3idmi
-Ll -



- 18 -
Table 2.1 (b). Project Cost Summaxy by Expenditures
,.......  . ::   :,   :  ,  :,   .......  .   ..... :    ..::   ..   ::.: ,: .. :  :   .   : :: : ,:.    . ... . ...::.       :, ,:   F .      M:: :.     . :    . :C  
CiviWl- Wo1k   00 0 :ii0 llll00165.900 00;;t0000387.00      552.9f t:t0.2201:;0 00.51   : l0:U.73  7:     Q o0            2. 90
equ 0; 0ipment       ;;;;146.70000 01,32Qd;0.5i          0 1,46.2     0.g 1- 190 l4          f 0  1.69    ;      1.88 0        90E 0 7.60
Pun      i000000i:wre  00000000  40 8         13.6          54.4      0,05       0.02.6       0.07         25 .4          0.3 OOli0000000Qf2000        0 0;it 200 i000000000..
Aerinal Poorph:   : i i0 i ::'00  i     632.3)          60i32.0:  :i0. :003  0.81  00    0.810          100I         j;03.30
MapP r duc ion              ; 1813.3       1158 ::+S.9  2,3442.2    i1.520:  ;:1.48          3,00 3ilf ;;:49   ;0  i  12.1;
WLoa1Tai*ii*0g       g          102001.2 t    102.1Z      tl 204.3   t;0.1300l  0.13    t i0.00426 0    50          t        1.1
Tecncl Asssaco e               330.6       2,586.6  0   0 2,917.2   0 o.42       3.310   ;   0  0 3.73       8Q9   ; ; ;T   15.10
Coputeriwl0000000 La,0;1  i83.1}0 0;f 193,8f; 0           :276.9- i0.11   0  0.250) )0.J:3600Q         f7     j00 0       1.50
SProjec:tAdmninistrator            0.0      1,560.0000ii: 1,560.0     0 j.0;0    2.0         l000  2.000  10l     ii00    8.10
Stodies;   00   3.10i;    429.8   i:  432.9:    0.0                         050 0.55 00   0.55;  1;0000 IX      ::  2.2
ReorrettCostst     ::   ;; ;g01015.3: :   ;i83.50  l00000i;19,8.8    0.150 i0:;0000.:10      0.250|!l:    41  : :i0    1:.0
PysicalCooDineocles:            16.6    0;101.9            118.5      0.C2   i  0.13         0.15:        860    i       0.6
Pric.e Clingencies    ;     :i     2,117.3        .   636.2    :     2,753.54      2.71 :  0, 082    : ;:3 .53  :   :i023 : : i 14.300
ToitaiFrjct Casts50000      8.8.28.6     13,306.900 i00  22,135.50    1 1.32        17.06  ; 28.-380     6  ;0;        114.9
2.22 Unit costs for works, goods and services are based on recent contract prices for
civil works and aerial photography, prices quoted by local and international suppliers for
vehicles, equipment and furniture, and rates of international and local consultants for PA,
development of computerized land registration and studies. Project base costs are
calculated in constant 1995 prices. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been
included for civil works and aerial photography. Except for technical assistance, overseas
training, PA and studies, price contingencies of US$3.53 million, equal to about 14
percent of base costs, have been included to accommodate annual projected domestic
inflation rates of 10 percent in 1996 and 6.5 percent thereafter, and 2.6 percent per year
for international inflation. Cost estimates for the technical assistance and overseas
training components to be funded by AusAID are based on current rates of Australian and
national consultants and overseas training courses.



- 19-
Finmancing
2.23 The proposed IDA Credit of US$20.73 million would finance 76 percent of
project financing requirements, exclusive of taxes (Table 2.2). The Credit would include
US$12.39 million (73 percent) of the foreign exchange requirements and US$8.34
million of local costs. It would finance civil works, equipment, vehicles, furniture, aerial
photography, map production, development costs of land titling, computerized land
registration, PA, local training, studies and recurrent costs on a declining basis. AusAID
would contribute US$5.06 million (19 percent of total project costs, net of taxes) which
would cover 100 percent of foreign exchange costs for technical assistance and overseas
training, and would be financed on a parallel basis. The Government would provide the
balance of US$1.44 million, 5 percent of total project costs exclusive of duties and taxes
(US$1.15 million). Project financing arrangements are summarized below. The
Government would provide adequate annual budgetary allocations to DOLHM, the
project provinces, Vientiane Prefecture, NGD and DSA to meet the counterpart funding
requirements for the project. During negotiations. assurances were obtained that
AusAID's Memorandum of Subsidiary Arrangement (which governs AusAID's funding)
would become effective before the IDA credit may be declared effective.



- 20 -
Table 2.2. Flnancng Plan (USS Million)
Governmenit   -DA    AusAD    TOTAL.
Civil Works:                               :0.12      0 .74.              0.86
Vehicles                                  0.35       0.82                1.17
Equipment                                 0.20       1.78                1.98
Fiumiire                                  0.01       0.                  0.08:
IDevepment COsm.:
A erial - b t gu l : 0 0 : f f f : t  T;    :-?  ff   0    '   ;0.00  0 .97  0.9 7
Map P  ducowt;                            0.38       3.40                3.78
0;Lanxd AdjudicaX tf                      T:tion  i; ::; ; i             ;:! 1.39  950  10.89:
:Local Thifintg                           0.04       0.28                0.32
TA & Oversas Training&                     ( 0.0     O.O      5.06       5.06S
Comp:teTized Land Regisran                0.00       0.40 :              0.40
rcPrect Adm    ..i . ..r .                0.00       2.00                2.00
Sdies..                                    0.00      0.55                0.55
7RecurrentCostsig; f :;0 i70 i   : 7    ::   0   0.10  0.22              0.32
;lodb!0- ;000; 00000} 0; ti; i000;;  i000 0 0;  0   2.59  20.73:0    5 S7063::      25.38
i-'   t:;'.  t'i: - j!E  :f : -                                   - _ 
E. PROCUREMENT
Procurement Framework
2.24 Procurement would be handled by DOLHM. Given the lack of experience by
DOLHM  in handling international and local procurement and the hiring of consultancy
services, and its institutional limitations including having only eleven active staff
members, the Government has agreed in principle that a Project Administrator (PA)
would be contracted during the initial years to carry out the procurement and
administration of the contracts under the Project, including coordination and
administration of services provided by relevant Government Departments.
2.25    Project Administrator (PA). The services of a consulting firm will be engaged to
act as a project administrator. In addition to filling the project administration void and
providing badly needed institutional strengthening, the services of the PA would allow
DOLHM to focus on policy issues as well as on the implementation of the administration
and valuation activities. The PA consultancy would have three major components; (a)
procurement; (b) financial control and project monitoring; and (c) formal training of
DOLHIM and other government staff related to project administration.



- 21 -
2.26  The procurement function would cover all tasks involved in the procurement
processes of the project, from the preparation of advertising notices and invitations to bid
through evaluation of contracts (except awarding and signing of contracts unless
delegated to do so) which are to be financed with IDA or GOL funds. These include: 12
ICBs for works, goods, service and consultancy contracts, of which one has
prequalification; 5 International Shoppings; 10 NCBs; and 6 Local Shoppings. Technical
specifications would be prepared by the technical experts whose services would be
included in the AusAID financing package for TA.
2.27  The project administration function will cover, as a minimum, the following
tasks: contract administration; project planning, budgeting and monitoring;
measurements, certifications and payments to suppliers, contractors and consultants;
handling of project accounts and statement of expenses; withdrawals from the IDA credit;
management training for government counterpart staff; and production of reports.
2.28  The formal training function comprises seminars to DOLHM and other GOL staff
on: (a) international and national procurement; (b) contract administration and
monitoring; (c) planning and budgeting; (d) receiving, storing and delivering; (e)
financial control; (f) processing disbursement and withdrawal requests; (g) processing
claims; (h) managing project accounts and statements of expenses; and (i) reporting.
2.29  As the PA's services would be financed by the IDA credit, the selection and
hiring process would be in accordance with the IDA/World Bank's Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants, and the letters of invitation, TORs and draft contract would require
IDA's prior clearance. The procurement function and formal seminars, having
measurable outputs in terms of procurement processes undertaken and completed and of
seminars delivered, respectively, will be paid on the basis of these outputs. On the other
hand, the project administration function, including on-the job training of counterpart
staff, will be paid on the basis of inputs, i.e., actual time and material expended. In view
of the above, technical and price aspects will be taken into account in the evaluation of
offers, with corresponding weighting which will depend on the measurability of the
outputs.
2.30  Acting for and on behalf of the Project Director of DOLHM, the PA would
initially take over the administration function of the project, which will include all tasks
related to the procurement of goods, works, service contracts and consulting services
which are to be financed with IDA and/or GOL funds (except for contract award and
signing and excluding the contracts which are to be financed with AusAID funds), project
planning and monitoring, as well as all physical and financial aspects of contract and
project administration.
2.31   The duration of the PA consultancy initially will be two years after which some of
its functions may be extended, as needed, on a year-to-year or month-to-month basis. It
is envisioned that the PA's work will taper off as GOL staff are trained, in such a manner
that after the first two years, only advisory services will be required.



- 22 -
2.32  The PA will be expected to assign at least one resident expert for each of the
following fields: procurement, financial control; and project/engineering management.
DOLHM will assign one senior and one junior staff of the Project Support Unit (PSU) to
work with each PA resident expert in all day-to-day activities. Transfer of skills being a
key element of the PA consultancy and as a result of the formal and on-the-job training to
be provided, it is envisioned that after the first year, each PA expert will assume the role
of supervisor and relinquish his/her functions to the local counterpart and, finally, that
towards the end of the second year, the experts will become advisors to the PSU staff.
During negotiations. assurances were obtained that the PA would be hired not later than
September 30. 1996. A draft letter of invitation. TORs and a contract for PA were
reviewed during negotiations.
2.33  Bidding Documents and Contract Documents. Neither ICB nor NCB documents
are available in DOLHM for review as the Department has no project implementation
experience. Given the mandatory use of the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for ICB
and the fact that, except for the aerial photography contract and civil works, few bidding
activities would take place in the first year of implementation, preparation of bidding
documents does not appear to be a constraint to timely project implementation.
Procurement Arrangements
2.34  Civil Works. Contracts for civil works in Vientiane City and Vientiane Province,
for the construction of two new buildings and the renovation and extension of the NGD
building, valued at (US$0.45 million), would be procured through ICB with
prequalification of bidders, utilizing the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs).
Qualified domestic contractors participating in the ICB would be eligible for a margin of
preference of 7.5 percent in the evaluation of bids. In view of the small value
(US$ 137,000 each) and of their being located in remote areas, a condition which will
likely attract only local contractors and not even national ones, civil works contracts for
the construction of two new buildings and the renovation of an existing building in the
other provinces estimated to cost US$410,000 in aggregate, would be procured through
NCB procedures acceptable to IDA..
2.35  Goods. Contracts for vehicles and scientific equipment, valued at a total of
US$2.77 million, would be procured through ICB procedures in accordance with IDA
Guidelines. Domestic manufacturers participating in ICB would be eligible for a margin
of preference of 15 percent or the rate of import duties, whichever is less in accordance
with IDA Guidelines. Boundary markers and furniture (US$0.37 million) and minor
equipment (US$0.2 million), all of which are available in the local market and estimated
to cost US$290,000 or less per contract, would be purchased through NCB procedures
acceptable to IDA. Materials for mapping and land titling (US$0.13 million), which will
be spread out over the five year implementation period of the project and estimated to
cost US$50,000 or less per contract, would be procured through International Shopping,
obtaining at least three prices from qualified suppliers in accordance with IDA
Guidelines. Minor contracts for goods and supplies with an estimated value of US$



- 23 -
25,000 or less and an aggregate value not to exceed US$0.18 million, may be procured
through the UN Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (for urgently needed
supplies), direct contracting with IDA's prior agreement or on the basis of national
shopping, as described above.
2.36   Service Contracts for Aerial Photography, map production and Computerized
Land Registration Management System, valued at a total of US$5.02 million, would be
procured through ICB, in accordance with IDA Guidelines.
2.37 Consultancies and Training. Consulting services totaling 216 staff-months of
international and 296 staff-months of national expertise, and overseas education and
training totaling 333 staff-months, all estimated to cost US$5.06 million, would be
funded in parallel by AusAID and procured according to its own procedures. Five studies
totaling 28 staff-months (US$0.55 million) and the PA (US$2.0 million) would be
procured on the basis of IDA Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
2.38   Miscellaneous. For the balance of US$11.24 million, which includes systematic
and sporadic adjudication, local training and recurrent costs, procurement is inapplicable
since implementation will be by force account.
IDA Prior Review
2.39  For all contracts with a value of US$200,000 equivalent or more per contract for
civil works, goods and service contracts (aerial photography, map production and
computerized land records) each set of bid documents would be subject to prior review by
IDA before issuing to bidders, and evaluation reports would be reviewed by IDA before
award of the contract. This would cover about 65 percent of the value of works and 80
percent for goods contracts and 100 percent of the value of the service contracts. All
other contracts of goods would be subject to IDA post review procedures. All
consultancy contracts with firms valued at the equivalent of US$100,000 equivalent or
more will be subject to IDA prior review procedures; so would contracts with individuals
valued at the equivalent of US$50,000 or more. Prior review procedures would apply
regardless of the value of contracts with respect to draft letters of invitation and contracts,
terms of reference, sole source selection, qualification criteria, evaluation reports, award
proposals and final contracts when substantial differences to the original draft are made.
For individual consultants, simplified review procedures would apply as per IDA
Guidelines. All post review contracts for civil works, goods and consultants would be
subject to sample review. In order to ensure timely award of contracts, the PSU should
ensure all required information is provided to IDA promptly, and evaluation and contract
award proposals are also submitted to IDA in a timely manner.



- 24 -
Table 2.3. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements z' (USS Million)
-     ;'!; l!!      7     - -  a   a     t07-tf;
1. Cvil Wi.....s.
IJ. BuiGldig0                                           C             -          149
(O*Th  (035)~     (                      (014)9
2.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(.I9                                       ...oods...
2.2  Vehicle                    :1.17             -             .I                     -
:  i  f :f  ij T: i: : 7  f: j(0.82)  :  :(A:     ;!i:   EE:   :i::4;  :;iiii0.82)  :.
2 .3 Furiture                                                                       . 0.0  0.08.
:2 .4 .    M s ; t v                                     0 .1 3      .....:..  ....   .   ..     .....  .( .(0 1 2 )
2.5 Bound   Marke:r                  -U90.2.                                    0.2
3.Serices:Contracts.....
3T.1 Aerial photography         0.97.                                         0.97......
3.:2 MapProduction.:4t   3.65                                                    3.65
ti000:  00   ;0;0   0::0:iS 0( 3.28)                                    ( :  : :g       ::0:   :   ?::;0::ig:  ::  3128)000;;
3.3C omputerized Land:          0.40.                                           0.40
Registraion                 (0 r.4DI0)0:00;0 (0.40) 
:4. Consulteianls                                             ..   ...
41*  TA & Overea        -0                                                       5.V06
F4.2. Project Adminisbtrato                                          2.00~  .  ..... .
4.3 Studies                                              0.55
5. MIscellaneous~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ....
R 5.1  Reurent Costs                                      32          *        0.32
202)(02
:5.12  Land Adjuditation                                 10.60                   100.6
. .. . .. ..... .                           2~~(.24)              (9.24)
5,.3  . traing;                   .                      0.3  .                 0.32
Ttal.                            8.24        0.98        14.10       I6         2..38:
.        ..7   : :i : :.  EEE E i . . .  ..                           ..   .  , EEiR    E ,,:i    :E. .:i: i, i,  , , , .   .      .: : ....
.... 1   (7.30    (0.6)      (12.57                  (20.73).
a' Figures in parenthesis represent IDA financing.
h/ Materials for maps and titles by international shopping.
c/ NIF (not IDA financed): Cofinanced by a grant from AusAID using its own
procurement procedures.
d/ Includes shopping, direct contracting, force account, consultant services,
and the UNDP inter-agency procurement services.



- 25 -
F. DISBURSEMENTS
2.40 The proposed IDA credit of SDR 14.0 million (US$20.7 million equivalent)
would finance about 76 percent of the total project costs, net of taxes and duties.
Disbursements would be as follows:
(a)   95 percent of expenditures for civil works;
(b)   100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures
for aerial photography;
(c)   100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditure (ex-
factory cost) and 80 percent of local expenditures for locally procured
vehicles, furniture, materials and equipment;
(d)   100 percent of expenditures for system development (computerized land
records), PA and studies;
(e)   90 percent of expenditures for the development costs of mapping and
titling and local training; and;
(f)   on a declining basis for recurrent expenditures: 100 percent up to
September 30, 1999 and 50 percent thereafter.
2.41 MOF and NGD would enter into a Memorandum of Understanding as a condition
of disbursement of funds for aerial photography and map production (see para. 2.12 (a)).
Full documentation would be required for disbursements against all contracts for civil
works, goods, and service contracts (aerial photography, contract land titling, and
computerized land registration) above US$200,000, consulting firms above US$100,000
and individual contracts above US$50,000. Disbursements for all other items below
these levels, including training, would be made against SOEs prepared by the PSU.
Documentation supporting the SOEs would be retained by the executing units and made
available for review by IDA supervision missions. The project would be physically
completed by March 31, 2003, and Credit closing would be on September 30, 2003.
Disbursements will therefore be completed in seven and a half years as opposed to eight
years which is the average for all IDA projects in Lao PDR. An estimated schedule of
disbursements is presented in Annex 2.
2.42  Special Accounts. In order to facilitate timely payments of project expenditures, a
Special Account would be established in a bank acceptable to IDA and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. The account would be established in US currency with an
authorized allocation of US$600,000 equivalent. The account would be replenished
monthly or when it is drawn down by 30 percent of the initial deposit, whichever occurs
first. Sub-accounts would be established to enable the channeling of funds to support
field activities in the project provinces.



- 26 -
G. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
2.43  Under the project, DOLHM would maintain separate project accounts covering all
financial transactions for project activities and would prepare annual statements of
receipts and expenditures based on the project accounts. DOLHM would also maintain
the accounting and internal control systems for disbursements by IDA against statement
of expenditures. During negotiations. assurances were obtained that the Government
would ensure that separate records and accounts would be maintained for the project.
including the Special Account. and would be audited each fiscal year by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA; the audit would include a separate opinion on the use of the
SOEs well as the status of audit compliance; a detailed audit report would be submitted
to IDA within six months of the closing of the Government's fiscal year.



- 27 -
3. ORGANIZATION
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
3.1   The project would be implemented by DOLHM of the Ministry of Finance except
for the production base maps which would be carried out by NGD. The Director of
DOLHM will operate as the Project Director, supported by a Project Support Unit (PSU).
The Project Director would contract the services of a Project Administrator (PA) who
would assist in managing the project during its initial years. At the Provincial level, the
project would be implemented through the Land and Housing Management Offices, in
the Division of Finance. A detailed description of the functions of PSU, PA and other
units involved in project management and coordination can be found in Annex 11.
Documentation of these organizational arrangements and a staffing plan were reviewed at
negotiations and found satisfactory by IDA.
3.2   Project Steering Committee. An overall Project Steering Committee (PSC) will
be formed under the chairmanship of the Vice Minister of Finance. Its members will
include representatives at the level of chief of cabinet of the Ministries of Finance,
Justice, Communication, Transport, Posts and Construction, and Agriculture and
Forestry; representatives of the Prime Minister's Office, the Prefecture of Vientiane, and
the project provinces; and the Project Director. DOLHM would serve as the Secretariat
of the PSC. The Steering Committee would be responsible for overall project supervision
and coordination, including the approval of annual workplans and budgets, and the
review of semi-annual progress reports. It would also act as a link to the Land Re-
management Committee for advice on policy decisions impacting the implementation of
the project. In each province, there would be a Provincial Oversight Committee (POC)
chaired by the Vice-Governor in charge of development and including representatives
from relevant provincial agencies (including Agricultural and Forestry Services, the Lao
Women's Union and the MCTPC Service at the province) to coordinate project
implementation in the provinces. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the
Government would establish and thereafter maintain until completion of the project. with
membership and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA: (1) by September 1. 1996, a
Project Steering Committee: and (2) by October 15. 1996. a Project Oversight Committee
in each province within the Project Area.
3.3   Responsibilities of the Project Director. The position of the Project Director
would be ex-officio filled by the Director of DOLHM. The Project Director would have
overall responsibility for ensuring that the project achieves its stated objectives. He/she
would provide overall direction for the project and manage the co-ordination of the PSC,
Land Re-management Committee, IDA and AusAID.
3.4   Responsibilities of the Project Manager. The Project Manager would be a full-
time position, reporting to the Project Director, and would be directly responsible for
project management. Responsibilities would include: the submission of work plans,
budgets and progress reports, through the Project Director, to the PSC and funding



- 28 -
agencies; and the management of the PSU. The Project Manager would act on behalf of
the Project Director in project matters during the absence of the Director. He/she would
be assisted by the Team Leader of the Technical Assistance to coordinate TA activities.
The Project Manager will rely on the PA for management support and training during the
initial years of the project.
3.5    Responsibilities of the Project Support Unit. The PSU would be established in
DOLHM to support the Project Director in his various responsibilities, including: (i)
monitoring of project implementation including the preparation of progress reports; (ii)
planning of project implementation including preparation of workplans and budgets; (iii)
financial management and control including verification of payment requests by
contractors, submission of withdrawal applications, compilation of project accounts and
arrangements for their auditing; (iv) coordination with concerned agencies for the
implementation and supervision of the project: and (v) acting as the Secretariat to the
PSC. The PSU would consist of at least nine full time national professional staff
responsible for procurement, disbursement. monitoring, planning, accounting and
financial controls. Support staff and additional technical experts would be hired as
needed to cover specific project activities. During negotiations. assurances were obtained
that the Government would establish and maintain a PSU prior to project effectiveness.
under the Project Director. and staff it with at least a qualified project manager. a
procurement officer and a project accountant. before the credit is effective.
3.6    Technical Assistance. The national staff of the PSU would be complemented by
technical consultants who would provide technical expertise and training to the national
staff and serve as resource persons to address project-related policy and technical issues
(see paras. 2.16-2.19).
3.7   Project Administrator. Given the lack of experience of DOLHM to manage
donor-funded projects, a PA would be hired to assist DOLHM in managing the project
during the initial years while also providing it with the necessary training to fully take-
over the management functions. Overall, the functions of the PA will be to set up
management systems for the PSU; initially handle management in selected areas on
behalf of the Project Director and Project Manager; and, actively transfer the relevant
skills and technologies to PSU staff in such a manner that subsequently, the PSU can
fully assume responsibility for project management. Specifically, the PA will perform
the following functions: procurement; project accounting and financial control; project
management including planning, monitoring and reporting; and capacity building and
training of PSU. A detailed description of the functions of PA can be found in Annex 11;
arrangements for the hiring of PA and its terms of reference are contained in paras. 2.25 -
2.32 and in Annex 7.
3.8    Responsibilities of the Provincial Project Facilitation Unit (PP FU. A PPFU
would be established in each project province, in the office of the provincial lands and
housing chief; it would be staffed with two local professionals plus support staff. It
would be directed by the head of the Land Housing Office of the province. The PPFU



- 29 -
would co-ordinate and facilitate project implementation at the provincial level. It will
have the following functions: (i) serve as a Secretariat to the Provincial Oversight
Committee (POC), including preparation of the annual work plans and budgets for POC
endorsement before they are forwarded to the Project Director; (ii) coordinate and liaise
with the central, provincial, district and village officials, in project implementation; (iii)
plan, monitor and evaluate project activities in the province; and (iv) maintain project
accounts and verify expenditures at the provincial level. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that the Government would establish bv October 15. 1996 and thereafter
maintain until completion of the project. with membership and terns of reference
satisfactory to IDA: a Provincial Project Facilitation Unit in Vientiane Province and each
province within the Project Area.
B. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
3.9   The PSU would be responsible for the preparation of progress reports and
monitoring and evaluation of project implementation. Semi-annual reports would be
prepared using the key performance indicators identified for the project as the basis for
assessing the progress of project implementation; an indicative list of the key
performance indicators is contained in Annex 5. These reports would detail the progress
of the project, identify possible problems or impediments and detail specific
recommendations for remedial action, if necessary, and would be presented to the PSC
and to the Bank. The reports would be submitted within two months of the end of the six
month period being reported upon. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the
Government would throueh the PSU: (a) submit to IDA by May 31 and November 30 in
each fiscal year. beginning on November 30. 1996. a semi-annual progress report on the
implementation of the Project: (b) organize and caary out joint annual project review
meetings with representatives of the Government and IDA and prepare an annual
progress report on the implementation of the project. under terms of reference satisfactory
to IDA to be reviewed at these meetings: (c) as part of each annual review. prepare and
carri out a follow-up time based action plan satisfactory to IDA to remedy any
deficiencies in project implementation identified during such review.
3.10 In addition, a mid-term review of the project would be jointly undertaken by the
Government and IDA by December 31, 1999. It would focus on: (i) progress made in
implementing the various components of the project; (ii) progress in overcoming
implementation problems particularly those related to project management and the hiring,
training and supervision of personnel to undertake systematic Land adjudication and
registration; (ii) the requirements by the Government to develop a long term national land
titling program; and (iv) redesigning the project if necessary. Furthermore, the
Government would contribute to the preparation of an Implementation Completion
Report within six months of the Credit Closing. During negotiations. assurances were
obtained that the Government would carry out not later than December 31. 1999. based
on TORs acceptable to IDA. a comprehensive midterm review of the project and of the
implementation of the national land titling program. Based on the findings of the mid-
term review, the Government would undertake all necessary actions to achieve the



- 30 -
objectives of the project and further develop its national land titling program. Within six
months after the closing date. the Government would furnish a plan for the future
operation of the proiect and contribute to the preparation of an Implementation
Completion Report.
3.11   Key Performance Indicators. Project progress would be tracked against key
performance indicators and targets which would be refined annually and would be of two
broad types: straight forward project output indicators, and efficiency and financial
indicators though introduced at a later stage (see Annex 5). Output indicators include:
base maps produced; parcels identified, surveyed and titles issued; gender distribution of
beneficiaries; offices built; staff trained; scholarships and studies completed. Efficiency
indicators are those related to land office operation improvements, including: registration
costs relative to staff numbers, days taken to register sales and mortgage transactions; and
transactions completed against staff numbers. These would be introduced as DOLHM's
systems and staff become able to handle these concepts. A third type of indicators would
measure the impact of the project by assessment and data collection during the socio-
economic impact studies on at least a semi-annual basis. These include costs per title;
government real estate taxes generated; credit obtained using land titles as collateral;
value changes of registered land in areas covered by the project; and changes in the use of
agricultural inputs.
3.12  Bank Supervision. The Bank would conduct supervision missions at six-monthly
intervals during the implementation of the project, with a mid-term review after project
year two to review the progress made (see Annex 10). Joint annual reviews of project
implementation would be conducted by the Government, IDA and AusAID, and action
plans developed to address implementation problems. These would be coordinated with
the semi-annual and annual reviews of the work plans, budgets, and project targets.



- 31 -
4. BENEFITS, COSTS AND RISKS
A. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND BENEFICIARIES
4.1    The project is aimed at registering about 258,500 parcels (80 percent of the
targeted parcels) corresponding to an equal number of families (a total of about 1.3
million people out of a population of 4.5 million) in urban and peri-urban areas who
would benefit directly from the project. Low income land holders would benefit
particularly from the project; without the project, only the higher income land holders
tend to have their real estate titled and registered. Project benefits are derived from titles
and other "outputs" of the project (e.g., aerial photomaps and cadastral maps), the
improved systems of land valuation and land information which can be developed from
them, and a more accessible, efficient and timely land administration service to the
public. While they do not lend themselves to a conventional economic rate of return
analysis, some of these benefits have been quantified through socio-economic impact
studies done for land titling projects in other countries.
4.2    According to socio-economic impact studies of land titling projects particularly
for Thailand, direct benefits to beneficiaries would include: improved tenure security
against unfair land acquisition; the possibility to sell land rights at fair prices; the ability
to use land as collateral; and reduction in conflicts over land rights. Development of
efficient land markets would lead to broader economic benefits including: more efficient
and transparent land transactions; easier access to the desired type of land for commercial
investment; mobilization of investable resources through use of land as collateral; and
provision of incentives for longer term investment in land-based activities and land
improvement. Socio-economic impact surveys that were undertaken to measure the
impact of the First Thailand Land Titling Project (1985-1991) found that:
(a)   farmers having titles increased their borrowing from institutional credit
sources by 27 percent while borrowers providing land as collateral
received 75 - 123 percent more institutional credit than those without;
(b)   farmers with land titles (as compared to those without such documents)
used inputs (including labor, draft power and other farm inputs) more
intensively by 10-30 percent, their agricultural output value was higher by
8-27 percent, their rate of capital'formation was also higher by 28 - 67
percent, and the rate of land improvements was higher by 37 - 100 percent;
and
(c)   title-equivalent land was 75 - 192 percent more valuable than
undocumented land while the direct cost of providing full title were
equivalent to only 0.6 - 5.6 percent of the marketed value of untitled land.'
Center for Applied Economics Research, Faculty of Economics, Kasetsart University, July 1993.



- 32 -
4.3    Development of land valuation capacity would improve: (i) land tax
administration by enabling a more objective and realistic assessment of land values
(currently, land values are assessed through negotiation) and by making land taxes
responsive to changes in land values particularly in urban areas; (ii) compensation
mechanisms for land acquired by the state; administration of state enterprises and assets
leased to the private sector; and (iii) decision making by lending institutions in regard to
values of land offered for collateral.
4.4    The above benefits would be monitored and evaluated during project
implementation. The key project performance indicators that will be monitored include:
(i) changes in the use of improved agricultural inputs; (ii) use of land titles to acquire
institutional credit; (iii) values of registered land; and (iv) government revenue generated
(see para. 3.11). Funding has been included in the project to support the required socio-
economic studies and other monitoring and evaluation activities.
B. FISCAL IMPACT
4.5   It is expected that the project would result in increased government revenues. The
main sources for incremental Government revenues would be (i) transfer fees from a
larger number of transactions and based on higher land values; (ii) higher land tax
revenues as a result of better collection rates due to more accurate land records and a
more realistic assessment of land values; and (iii) income taxes on capital gains from land
value increases. Although the revenues from cadastral fees, payment for title certificate
and land tax can be estimated, it is at this stage difficult to quantify revenues from land
transactions with accuracy, but experience from other countries may serve as reference.
In Thailand, revenues from land-related taxes, including transfer fees and income tax, in
1994 amounted to about US$1 billion, an increase of over 500 percent in the ten year
period of 1984 to 1994 during which the Government issued over 4 million land titles to
landholders in rural areas, and adopted a more realistic valuation system for land taxation
purposes. Transfer fees accounted for about 55 percent of total revenues, followed by
income taxes (40 percent) and starnp duty (5 percent).
4.6    As a first effort to estimate the revenue potential to the GOL resulting from the
issuance of about 258,500 titles, a simple model has been developed based on the
following conservative assumptions:
(a)    production of 258,500 titles, including 242,000 titles generated under the
systematic and 16,500 titles under the sporadic titling program assuming a
titling rate of 80 percent of the total identified parcels of 323,100 titles);
(b)   cadastral fee and cost of title certificate of US$7.6 per parcel, based on the
cost of certificate of US$2.6/parcel and an average cadastral fee of
US$5/parcel. The average cadastral fee is estimated on the basis of a tax
regime of Kip 4,000 plus a fee of Kip 0.5/sq. m on an average parcel of
300 sq. m in urban areas, Kip 2,000 plus a fee of Kip 0.3/sq. m on an
average parcel of 1 ha in peri-urban areas and Kip 1,000 plus a fee of Kip



- 33 -
0.1/sq. m on an average parcel of 2 ha in rural areas, assuming relative
shares of 20 percent, 35 percent and 45 percent respectively for urban,
peri-urban, and rural parcels to be covered by the project;
(c)   an average land value of US$3,635 per parcel, based on the assumptions
that land parcels average US$10,000 in urban, US$3,000 in peri-urban and
US$1,300 in rural areas, weighted by their relative shares of 20 percent, 35
percent, and 45 percent respectively and that land values increase by 5
percent annually in nominal terms;
(d)   an average land tax rate of 0.12 percent of land value or U$4.2/average
parcel, based on the assumptions that average land tax for an urban parcel
is Kip 4/sq. m times 300 sq. m, for a peri-urban parcel Kip 6000/ha times
one ha, and for a rural parcel Kip 1000/ha times two ha, weighted by 20
percent, 35 percent and 45 percent, respectively;
(e)   a collection rate for land taxes which is 30 percent in year 1 (national
average) which has been assumed to rise to 75 percent in year 6 as a result
of institutional strengthening, more complete cadastral records, and
improved equipment and infrastructure provided under the project;
(f)    a land transfer fee of 2.5 percent on the parcel land value; and
(g)   a turnover of titled land parcels (transactions) at a rate of 2 percent per
year.
4.7   Based on the above assumptions, the results of the analysis are presented in
Annex 4 and summarized in Table 4.1 below.
Table 4.1: Projection of Incremental Revenues from Land-Related Taxes (US$ Million)
Year 5   Year 10   Year 15   Year 20
Incremental Annual Gross Revenues    1.06     1.54       1.96      2.5
Incremental Cumulative Gross         1.89     9.54      18.44     29.81
Revenues
Incremental Annual Net Revenues      0.71     1.38       1.14      1.71
Incremental Cumulative Net Revenues   0.70    7.10      11.85     19.21
4.8    Our conclusion from the analysis is that the Government would benefit
significantly from the project in terms of enjoying a strong positive net cash flow



- 34 -
particularly after the tenth year of the project. This conclusion is drawn from an analysis
of incremental net fiscal revenues, which represent the difference between incremental
gross revenues resulting from the project and total project expenditures incurred by GOL.
The gross incremental revenues equal gross fiscal revenues from the parcels for which
titles would be issued, less the land taxes which would have been raised without the
project. The project expenditures incurred by the Government are the sum of interest
payments on the IDA credit (0.75 percent service charge on the outstanding balance),
repayment of principal (US$0.69 million per year over 30 years from project year 11 to
year 40) and GOL's project contributions (5 percent of total project costs). Incremental
annual net fiscal revenues amount to US$0.71 million in year 5 while cumulative
incremental net revenues total US$0.7 million after five years, and increase to over
US$7.1 million by year 10 and to US$19.2 million by year 20. The analysis shows that
the project would generate a positive incremental annual net cash flow of fiscal revenues
for the Government, except for the first two years.
4.9    Government revenues derived from the project have been conservatively
estimated, providing for potential additional revenues in case, for example, land values
increase faster and collection rates are higher than assumed. In the worst case scenario,
should for example land registration rates fall from the assumed 80 percent to 40 percent,
cumulative net cash flow-to Government would fall from US$19.2 million in year 20 to
about US$13.5 million; this would still represent a comfortable position for the
Government. As for the private beneficiaries, they would obtain project benefits which
would include: increased borrowing from institutional credit sources; increased use of
improved agricultural inputs; higher rates of capital formation; improvements in land; and
appreciating values of land. While these benefits cannot be quantified at this stage, they
would be expected to exceed by a multiple amount the revenue benefits expected to be
enjoyed by the Government (see paras. 4.1 and 4.2).
C. COST RECOVERY
4.10  The cost recovery analysis in this section is based on an analysis of payments to
the Government made by beneficiaries of land titles and the costs incurred by the project
in producing and delivering those titles. The payment for the cost of certificate and
cadastral fee, amounting to about US$7.6 per parcel, is direct cost recovery for the land
registration. This represents about 20 percent of the average unit cost of the land
registration (average of US$40/title). Moreover, cost recovery of land registration and
associated services provided by DOLHM is achieved not only through taxes charged for
first time land registration but also through taxation of subsequent land registration. With
these taxes, it has been demonstrated in paragraphs 4.8 and 4.9 that the Government
would realize a significantly positive cash flow from the project. This cash flow would
be available to support the operation and maintenance of the infrastructure and facilities
supported by the project. A review of cost recovery will be conducted in the second year
of the project (see para. 2.15(c)); the results of the review will be used as a basis to revise
cost recovery arrangements, if necessary, taking into account the need for full cost
recovery on one hand and minimizing disincentives to land registration on the other hand.



- 35 -
D. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
4.11  The impact of the project on the environment would be neutral in the short and
medium term. Experience in the Bank-supported Land Titling Projects in Thailand and
the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project in Brazil do not indicate any
significant impact on the environment. In the long term though, land registration could
have positive impacts on the environment in a number of respects. The long term land
titling program to be further defined under the Project, would provide incentives to invest
for long term land use (e.g., soil conservation in rural areas, and investments in
environmental infrastructure such as kitchens and bathrooms in urban areas) and provide
information, such as aerial photography and maps, which could be useful in
environmental management. In addition, the project would support studies on
community land use rights and recommend procedures for demarcation of forest
boundaries in project areas, in close coordination with the demarcation of protected forest
and conservation areas being undertaken under the IDA-funded Forest Management and
Conservation Project (Cr. 2856-LA).
E. SOCIAL IMPACT
4.12  The accelerated land titling and registration is expected to result in a reduction of
disputes over land rights in the project areas, representing a significant positive social
impact. Such an impact was observed in the Thailand Project and is documented in its
socioeconomic evaluation study.
4.13   Within Lao PDR, most farmers own or have traditional access to their farm lands.
Most rural and peri-urban families own their household land through customary
acknowledgment, rather than formal registration, while most urban dwellers also own
their own homes, with the incidence of registration being higher. A major objective of
the project is to legalize and register land rights of long term occupants and it is proposed
to reduce the emphasis on documentary evidence requirements to enable the occupants to
obtain titles. The impact of these measures would also be positive in the sense of
minimizing the potential for displacement of long term occupants.
4.14  It is known that communal tenure exists within the project areas. However, this
relates to sites regarded as communal lands for common use by villagers and such lands
would not be targeted for registration of title at this stage. Because of its urban focus the
project, at this stage, will not face other issues relating to communal land tenure existing
in outlying rural lowland and upland areas. These issues will be the subject of a special
study during this stage of the project in order to prepare for further stages of the titling
program (see Annex 8 for the terms of reference).
F. GENDER ISSUES
4.15  Women in the Lao PDR comprise 51 percent of the population and 53 percent of
the agricultural labor force. In comparison to women in other Asian countries, Lao
women enjoy good opportunities for access and control of land resources, both legally



- 36 -
and customarily. Well over 50 percent of the women live in areas which have strong
matrifocal and matrilocal traditions including female land inheritance, while at the same
time the constitution and the laws of the country promote equality. Under these laws men
and women are equally entitled to hold property. The Family Law specifies that any
property acquired during marriage is regarded as joint property. Land owned by a woman
prior to her marriage remains her individual property, and is not included in the joint
property acquired during marriage. Registration of title should reflect such traditional
property rights and hence would not be detrimental to the interests of women but rather
strengthen their position.
4.16 However, concern has been expressed that the adjudication process could be
carried out in such a way that it does not fully recognize women's rights. This view is
based on the experience with the filling of land tax declaration forms, where the data
were sometimes collected in such a way as to infringe on the rights of women. This
occurred not through any fundamental desire to reform rights in land but was due to a
combination of poorly worded forms, a lack of awareness of gender issues by officials, a
high incidence of illiteracy and a lack of understanding by villagers of the requirements
and implications of the official processes. As the land tax declaration will be used as
strong proof of ownership in the land titling process, addressing this issue was made a
priority in the design of the project.
4.17   Consequently, the following preventive and corrective measures have been
incorporated in project design so as to preserve women's rights: (i) the Lao Women's
Union has been included as a member of the Project Oversight Committee at provincial
level; (ii) provision has been made for gender awareness training, firstly for staff of the
PSU and subsequently for all staff and members of the adjudication teams as part of their
systematic adjudication training; (iii) efforts would be made to ensure that as far as
possible, there is female representation in each adjudication team: the initial under
representation should be rectified over time when additional staff are being recruited and
more women have obtained training under the project; and (iv) provision has been made
to monitor gender statistics of land registration, together with other key perfornance
indicators, during project implementation.
G. SUSTAINABILITY
4.18   Project sustainability would be enhanced by at least four actions. Eir, the project
would initially focus on areas with the highest current and potential demand for
registration of land transactions; a special study would be conducted under the project to
review the fee structure of land administration with regard to the affordability of land
transactions, the incentive to use formal rather than informnal registration procedures, and
the recovery of the full cost of land administration. Second, the project would support the
development of institutional and human resource capacity that would continue Project
operations after project completion; in particular, the project's support for land
administration would help build a capacity to manage title transfers on an on-going basis
once properties are registered in the land offices. Ihird, the public sector would manage



-37 -
the issuing of titles and the project at least in its last four years, and would work with the
contractors at the local government and agency level in many of the project activities.
And furth, project preparation has involved a series of participatory and interactive
workshops with national, provincial and district participation of stakeholders in project
design with a view to fostering local ownership of the project which is critical for project
sustainability.
H. RISKS
4.19   There are two project risks: over-stretching DOLHM's implementation
capabilities; and inability to obtain high rates of land registration due to the ineligibility
of many landholders. The fi=t risk has been minimized through project design in at least
three ways: (i) adopting a simple project design and preceding the project with project
management training and technical assistance; (ii) contracting out project administration
in the first three years of the project; and (iii) providing for adequate capacity building
support under the project. The second risk has been addressed by proposed new
procedures of land registration to overcome issues that have held down land registration
rates (see para. 2.9); these would be tested as part of the pre-implementation activities
before being incorporated into the main project. The project would start small, with a
gradual build-up, and is flexibly designed to incorporate lessons from implementation
experiences. Initially, the project would operate in areas of strong economic activity, and
hence with the largest potential for generating demand for land titling and economic
benefits. While the project risks cannot be entirely eliminated, the potential benefits from
the project make it worth taking the risks.



- 38 -
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
5.1   The conditions of credit effectiveness and disbursement as well as the agreements
obtained during negotiations are as follows:
Agreements Obtained During Negotiations
(a)   the Government would carry out its project through DOLHM, except for
the production of base maps which would be carried out through NGD,
according to a project implementation plan satisfactory to IDA (paras. 3.1
- 3.12);
(b)   the Government would, by November 30, 1996, prepare and submit to
IDA for its prior approval the terms of reference of the socio-economic
baseline survey and impact study, the community land tenure study, the
forest boundary definition study, the land fees and cost recovery study, the
study on efficiency and land rights issues of nationalized land, the human
resource development study and the organizational management and
operation study and a time-based plan for undertaking them. Upon receipt
of IDA's approval, the Government would promptly carry out each study
and submit to IDA for review and comments the draft report of each study
together with the proposed work plan and related budget for implementing
its recommendations. Once approved by IDA, the Government would
immediately take all measures necessary to implement the
recommendations with due diligence and efficiency (para 2.15(b) and (c));
(c)   the Government would provide to IDA for prior approval by August 31 of
each year beginning August 31, 1996 a proposed training program and
budget for the central government and provincial staff involved in the
project; once approved by IDA, the Government would immediately take
all measures to implement the program taking into account IDA's
comments (para. 2.19);
(d)   the Government would ensure that separate records and accounts would be
maintained for the project, including for the Special Account, and would
be audited each fiscal year by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA;
the audit would include a separate opinion on the use of the SOE as well
as the status of audit compliance; a detailed audit report would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the closing of the Government's
fiscal year (para 2.43);
(e)   the Government would through the PSU: (a) submit to IDA by May 31
and November 30 in each fiscal year, beginning on November 30, 1996, a
semi-annual progress report on the implementation of the Project; (b)



-39 -
organize and carry out joint annual project review meetings with
representatives of the Government and IDA and prepare an annual
progress report on the implementation of the project, under terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, to be reviewed at these meetings; (c) as part
of each annual review, prepare and carry out a follow-up time based action
plan satisfactory to IDA to remedy any deficiencies in project
implementation identified during such review; (para 3.9);
(f)   the Govermment would carry out, not later than December 31, 1999, based
on TORs acceptable to IDA, a comprehensive midterm review of the
project and of the implementation of the national land titling program.
Based on the findings of the mid-term review, the Government would
undertake all necessary actions to achieve the objectives of the project and
further develop its national land titling program. Within six months after
the closing date, the Government would furnish a plan for the future
operation of the project and contribute to the preparation of an
Implementation Completion Report (para. 3.10);
(g)   the Government would ensure that all required security clearances,
approvals, licenses, permits and permissions are promptly provided for
undertaking the aerial photography and, if necessary, for processing
outside the territory of Lao PDR (para. 2.12 (a)) of photographic negatives
produced as a result of such aerial photography activities;
(h)   the Government would ensure that the PA is hired not later than
September 30, 1996 (para. 2.32);
(i)   the Government would not later than September 30, 1996 submit to IDA
for prior approval the proposed time-bound action plan for implementing
the lessons learned and recommendations derived from the Project
Preparation operation trials undertaken prior to credit effectiveness. Once
approved by IDA, the Government would immediately undertake all
necessary measures to implement the recommendations duly taking into
account IDA's comments. The Government would issue not later than
January 31, 1997, Implementing Regulations to the land-related decrees
satisfactory to IDA, incorporating the lessons learned from the operational
trials. The Regulations would set forth the procedures for the issuance,
registration, adjudication, and enforceability of land transfer, occupancy
and use rights (para. 2.11); and
(j)   the Government would establish and thereafter maintain until completion
of the project, with membership and terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA: (1) by September 1, 1996, a Project Steering Committee; (2) by
October 15, 1996, a Project Oversight Committee in each province within
the Project Area; and (3) by October 15, 1996 a Provincial Project



- 40 -
Facilitation Unit in Vientiane Province and each province within the
Project Area (para. 3.2 and 3.8).
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
(a)  the Government would establish and thereafter maintain throughout the
duration of the project a Project Support Unit in DOLHM, under the
Project Director, and staff it with at least a qualified project manager, a
procurement officer and a project accountant (para. 3.5); and
(b)  the Government would ensure that AusAID's Memorandum of Subsidiary
Arrangement is effective (para. 2.23).
Conditions of Disbursement
(a)  the Government would ensure that MOF and NGD have entered into a
Memorandum of Understanding before disbursement of funds can be
made to support aerial photography and the production of maps under
NGD (paras. 2.41 and 2.12 (a)).
Recommendation
5.2   Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the project would be suitable for
a Credit to the Government of the Lao PDR in the amount of SDR 14.0 million
(US$20.7 million equivalent), on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



LAO PDR
LAND TITLING PI3JECT
K 000
Project Components by Year
Base Costs                                         Total
1996        1997         1998         1999         2000     K000       US$000
A: Leqal Framework                    114582.0    101712.0      83772.0      28470.0      12480.0    341016.0         437.2
B. LLald Tilln
I. Base  a                         809390.2    670570.2    713949.6   1254970.4    890957.0   4339837.4           5563.9
2  Sgstematlc1d udication           260967.8    336358.9   1438205.1   2922288.5   3129776.4   8087596.7         10368.7
3 S lradic Adjudication        --------0.0    180891.6        45066.9    114012.8    113507.3    453544.6          581.5
Sub-total                             1070358.0   1187826.7   2197221.6   4291331.7   4134240.7  12880978.7          16514.1
C. Land Admininstration
1. Land Adm|n-S stematic            86580.0    614351.6    680429.1    217498.6    116855.2   1175714.5           2276.6
2. Land Adian-Spgradic                   0.0     25974.0      99738.3      13730.7      10178.2    149621.2         191.8
Sub-total                               86580.0    700325.6    780167.4    231229.3    127033.4   1925335.7          2468.4
D. Land&Propert  Vlation              127465.6    116127.0    156312.0    124098.0        91026.0    615628.6         789.3
E. Instltutlon Oldn
1. Proiect Nt& tralning            358448.4    315552.6    258382.2    302159.4    273143.4   1507686.0           1932.9
2. Project  mlnistrator            520000.0    520000.0    520000.0            0.0          0.0   1560000.0       2000.0
Sub-total                              878448.4    835552.6    778382.2    302159.4    273143.4   3067686.0          3932.9
F. Studies                            253500.0     80340.0          0.0      99060.0          0.0    432900.0        555.0
Total B        .ELINEOSTS            2530934.0   3022483.9   3995855.2   5076348.4   4637923.5  19263545.0          24696.9
Physcal Contingencies                3900.0     40750.6      33795.9      40041.6          0.0    118488.1        151.9
Price Contingencies                  35316.2    119851.1    423013.2    958294.7   1217022.6   2753497.9          3530.1
Total PRIJECT COSTS                   2570150.2   3183085.6   4452664.3   6074684.7   5854946.1  22135531.0         28378.9
Taxes                               135278.4    165958.4    196062.3    203568.6    198854.8    899722.6          1153.5
Foreign Exchange                  2248046.4   2695356.5   2828919.4   3067503.4   2467154.2  13306979.9          17060.2
1/14/1996 3:26
'iiii-I
Ie-.I



LAO PDR
LAND TITLING PR0JECT
K 000
Stumary Accounts by Year
Base Costs                                         Foreign Exchange
1996        1997        1998        1999        2000        Total           t      hAiunt
1. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. CivYl Works                      39000.0   171226.0    337959.0        4680.0         0.0    552865.0           70.0   387005.5
B.  Equ hent                       529154.0   608326.0   249865.6    70056.0          9840.0  1467241.6            90.0   1320517.4
C.  Veh  les                       238992.0   237978.0    198276.0   122070.0    58500.0   855816.0                70.0    599071.2
D.  Furniture                        2309.0    25516.4    25548.4          967.4         0.0     54341.2          25.0      13585.3
E.   aleria  Photoqraphy                0.0    236280.0          0.0   395736.0          0.0    632016.0          100.0   632016.0
F. Develor.ent Costs
1. Salarfes L Allowance          30281.0    29735.0   245178.0   697674.0   765680.0   1768548.0                0.0          0.0
2. Transport ,penses              2496.0      3588.0      4118.0       2558.0      2558.0     15318.0          70.0    10122.6
3. Vehicle Haintenance            2398.5      2398.5     11045.0    31320.0       34050.0     81212.0          70.0    56848.4
4. Haterial                      32658.0     43851.0     89374.9   167414.8    176641.8    509940.5            53.2    271045.9
5. Other Develporent Costs       43524.0     42432.0    127428.0  1805544.0   1981200.0   4600128.0            48.9  2247841.7
6. Na Productibn                 36496.2    65824.2    451971.0   644592.0   673530.0   1872413.4              49.5    927411.6
7 OPS/Control Points              1801.8      1801.8    36036.0    90090.0    98982.0   228711.6               49.0    112068.1
Sub-total                          149655.5    189630.5   1565150.9  3439192.8  3732641.8  9076211.5              39.9  3625944.8
G.  cwiputerlzed LanEd Beqistr          0.0     91500.0    179400.0          0.0         0.0    276900.0          70.0   193830.0
H. TA & Overseas Trainin 
1. Loca  Advisr                  30030.0    44616.0      73788.0    73788.0       42900.0   265122.0            0.0         0.0
2. Foreiqn Advl or              652080.0   631020.0   618150.0   443040.0   307827.0   2652117.0               91.5   2586597.0
3. Overseas TraIning             81120.0    123864.0    126672.0   323856.0   379392.0   1034904.0            100.0   1034904.0
Sub-tot I                          763230.0   799500.0   818610.0   840684.0    730119.0  3952143.0               91.6  3621501.0
1.  Pro iect Mdministrator         520000.0   520000.0   520000.0            0.0         0.0   1560000.0         100.0   1560000.0
J. Local TraininqiEducation
1. Local training                21937.5    37401.0    59330.7    46265.?         45563.1    210498.6          50.0   105249.3
K.  StudLes                        251940.0     77220.0         0.0    97500.0           0.0    426660.0         100.0   426660.0
Total INVESTHENT COSTS            2516218.0  3000577.9  3954140.6  5017151.9  4576664.5  19064752.9               65.5  12485380.6
11. RECURRENT COtSS
L.  Salaries & Allowance             6228.0      8616.0     13137.6    16638.0    16638.0    61257.6               0.0         0.0
H. Other OD rat na Costs
1. Travb  AlloRance               3180.0      3180.0      5676.0      7296.0       7296.0    26628.0           90.0    23965.2
2. Hater a1                          0.0      1170.0      1170.0       390.0        390.0      3120.0          50.0      1560.0
3. Veh ce  O& H                      0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0
4. Equ.mnt Naiotenance               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0
5O     Operatin Costs          5308.0      8940.0     18306.0    26312.5    28375.0    87241.5              50.0    43620.7
6. bulding malntenance               0.0         0.0      3425.0      8560.0       8560.0    20545.0           70.0    14381.5
Sub-tota                             8488.0     13290.0    28571.0    42558.5    44621.0    137534.5              60.7     83521.4
Total RECURRENT COSTS               14116.0    21906.0      41114.6    59196.5    61259.0   198792.1              42.0     83527.4
Total BASELINE C0StS              2530934.0  3022483.9  3995855.2  5076348.4  4637923.5  19263545.0               65.2  12568908.0
Physical Contnqencles             3900.0    40750.6      33795.9    40041.6           0.0    118488.1          86.0   101902.1                         Q
Price Contingencles              35316.2    119851.1   423013.2   958294.7   1217022.6  2753497.9              23.1   636169.7
Total PRJECT COSTS                2510150.2  3183085.6  4452664.3  6074684.1  5854946.1  22135531.0               60.1  13306919.9                              7.
11-m;                           I?1V2TR.4   105948.4   196002.3   203568.6   198854.8   899722.6                 0.0         0.0



- 43 -
Annex 2
LAO PDR
Land Titling Project
Disbursements (USS Million)
IDA FY                                       Annual           Cumulative
FY96 a                                       0.00             0.00
FY97                                         0.80             0.80
FY98                                          1.30            2.10
FY99                                         2.70             4.80
FY00                                         3.50             8.30
FY01                                         3.80             12.10
FY02                                         4.00             16.10
FY03                                         4.00             20.10
FY04 b/                                      0.63             20.73
a/ second semester of Fy96.
b/ September 30, 2003.



- 44 -
Annex 3
LAO PDR
Land Titling Project
Phasing of Adjudication ('000 parcels)
Targets           Year  Year  Year  Year  Year  Year  Year  Total
1     2      3      4      5      6     7
A. Systematic
Adjud.
Vientiane         3.3    7.7   12.1  23.1   26.4  26.4  26.4   125.4
Prefecture
Veintiane                              3.3    7.7   7.7   7.7    26.4
ProvinceI
Savannakhet                     3.3   7.7    15.4  15.4  15.4   57.2
Luang Prabang                          3.3    11.0  11.0  11.0   36.3
Champasak                       3.3   7.7    15.4  15.4  15.4   57.2
Subtotal          3.3    7.7    18.7  45.1   75.9  75.9  75.9   302.5
B. Sporadic                     2.2   4.6    4.6   4.6   4.6    20.6
Adjud.
Total Targeted    3.3    7.7   20.9  49.7   80.5  80.5  80.5   323.1
Total Issued a/    2.6    6.2    16.7  39.8   64.4  64.4  64.4   258.5
a/ About 80% of targeted parceis



I.All 511
1'*V  .41 Jf,       b- , -.
A 5%.,46st..uc ,                                          Y'.l       Y.l V.         ) Y..  V  4       Y.Va      Y-6        .Va        V-ia          .v      Y..Vko-S. YeahIVe.o.2 il                        IAl       . i      Yt.14   3aulT         Yell    Y.0S    Y.1 6 r    0
I Co,A  F.. A C_oI a4tomflv  i
IIU11. -4'yi.. aO .lI                                      24    616            547,41    139700      15s6115*5  Olum      1I4
A,;V 4,eaJ Il1asoJla II-4u)                                ib1u       NW       315 6M 1s  5M16 4521  l2A0       5941O0    25U054M 205414        25400U    750109       251111     2s4142     25b410    250500      2sb15      25I050      liOli    25410    2151U4        25*50
AnoJ Fie4.  v*. S14Ilst                                042045   0 04"416   4527022   05U24176    0 5914    044914   044544
AW.,1i.i9.i voa*5.41UN45)iI                            002"61    46443   4IV95012   04s4124   090156,   5475U44    16444    1 594115f 11 9.1161    1*St                  I          19 i A     I s        I          596        196        196        59I       j1         j94
21 ad T.
1kJkm L.eJ VdkI USa-IJ2                                    3611    34167S   4w75U    4207947   411* 6S   4619211  407521 525         11141   5170 555   S0)9074    5925 032   621701  4627 9s2   61.4 235   7197 051   75364.e   7935 749   4133147   3740*261   953464
ja  V R'. /                                              *OWI54   23 W0I4U21    0*5225    05123    0UU021    0W125    0*5521    0U5U21    0                                                                                  U121    0*523  0*552  040421   05A52)    00U123    0*5523    45423   145w123   1007121   O04i2)  a,0023
C.u4k   .tio*0V.)44                                        u05           4  u                  45  u    147       073         175        1 71      .75       0u75         u7s        07S        075        u75        o75        4171        75       075        4175       4175
A-S.A Ls iJ e. koo      35 145                         05)4    0056525  0 u6294        2u2726    0 4935    0 5045uf2   I 16512    1512915   5 20594 k 51)4626    1 411357    144245   11t72   1 651401  15711521   5 *u527  1930)5   5 564z5   2 045956   2 190254
Ago.". -I.    L- 1h4) aeWs-a060ISi9 002u405     40291644    00u5649    a77202   I 604372 277117   399070    52137552   46164.17   0U27464)  9515034   5406409   427u529   1441741   542514  1510555                                               2u009253   2215326   2437419
ko...u. LAAniOauLAI"4.1i-o4USS14ly                            a   9ONU04 31 535 442S1   0101503   0 2315    0  41471100507   u0.23923   07J37419   0 71415  V06775   V4171142    00v017  4031953   09UfUU1  I 0U373   IW1*150   IIISZIm   510157S  1551574   13S1415
&- iJl  AgWoq I.aoia-  kOoni(USJsS'                           4   0 W44 I 45    0025291   453061)   U415151   095l029   1067154    2)4015      31012654   391011   4764545*    541e6211  401515/   75S52153   010404    9474045   10011           122I?$2  1552143  15456004
3 *d Tua. T.
A-l Tw o  olIDul                                                                0l u02     0 02       00 2       0          0 0        u2 402     0)         002        4412       002        0U2        4 o2       0 02        002      402        0 2        0 ul       4 42
Na..l 1 TaVwas-tu-i                                        5120        176      514       150503     25936      50I06      51696      51696     55196       516414       5654     5634       $1516S4    5516       1494       55494      159604     55694       16916     4194
TVioaoli                                                  0021 0U025            04123       025       0425 02021           (A             us         2          us 0025  02  41   42  4025  00 25  41423  425       41021      342        4114l5      0425      0          0421
AooTiSimT.a aIt-Vii(4S1J5lU)                            040730  0U0567904  0031)7   1413722    02t64147   0404504    042956   41651031   069409   072047O1 07452142   0*5359    4645071   00j5040 4950107   097445 17 4I241 5426765                            104S      1 47125
A4g.4S.  T.skf T-  Jhvt.os6J4lJ)                      0944790  4021S92   4072729   4221077   0494564    4190474    217632   2237154   2931414   2664247   44254761   5322972   4072643  6454197   740444    36S1296    909705   5004711   129WA1    112345240n
4 TVi S    f. 9ai   (MaSKasa  4151515
Al." .&- .s s                                          042024s 13 00112    241107   u4145255   1202157   1749237 57210   2210556  I20 1    197) 297714260   40       25770952   22AS06   24*245   2s57u25S   2 644240   2 770191    295711   14654     325155      537126                        Ul
440  1eg.V0 5                                          002301    54s          3*510    011945   0 91539    2 2t1 3  l2  43  6 II5I5W 54 l 019191   216724    12 2507   It 413141   56  5W 9 1UJ9251   212 6573   24 26405   27 14U4l  2s 9114   555255    24 242 9           39 457
t..ll    A-dv_.K    geI.-=.                       *Owuln          QuueIN  OW09VA  Luw2WI  e U-1191  ONWbIJSI  Ouu/wI  uWSIM        WS7 11   v WsV)    UW571l,2   8MS7 V.  ueS7%   e ws7 36   0 W716   0 uS77D O47s eu716                                eu74 1W73   6W7"   *05734
S Tij rla*t.s            R.-M-vut41sulb
A.-d   R.-                                        0 OD412 s        u67741  02035%4   eS0 547   lu57125   14XVAI  I 415931   1 J92ZW7   ) 46341        1 S.557   1 6123461  a1692966   I 77X1i4 1 16495       IS992   7Oli   llte 2167BI   lt64736   2w2m317   2S01242
IB,,BuVa4AM%&B, -0il                                   *0l4462    D94U    ODSf0 971   D 11MI154   119301b  31 DOM   s 147SUS              5100   A OU3JI4   V5 /    111  I 1466t4    12 16   14 61721   16 46171  1U44)SJ   2USUM3   22 "204   14 11a5   27 11295  29U2342
a P.Wa wk.
I UAs CUM  Z(ustal                                           I1        I9         1 2... 1s 43 2    J 7              7        3 7
O    adftIA C.. UsUS)                                        11                                 3     I) )]      17 'U3     2en7       2u 73      20 71      20 73       20 04      19 Is     It         17 97      17 24      aSt         iso       Is 1       14 $2     fill
Lou" pqmd ( 75%) UStal)                                 *OU125    D02025       0 044S   001Soo i       ou9s75  a 12725  0 155475  v0155475   0 155471  0 155475        0 ISUI     1US121      *1399    0 134775    0 J29    D1J24425    0 I 023  O 11475       a lX9f       10372$
ni.A p4ma (USsU)                                              a          a                    a          a                    a          a          61        D         0 69       a 6s           69    e 69        a 69      D 69       a 6S       a 69       u S6       D *9
I W     -rlb"l ocr  d5t iUsw}                             a04        a02        *n2       0*213         i  a2 *2S           v2S
T";4 Os FuAw (u53t)
Aw-   GtF       4*.M-" (SU)                            *D04n2      a ms7      0 2tU    03ems2    0 30975   0 37m5   040S175    *15547S    OISS175   OISS475            04403  *83SI2S    0929fS   0 924n7S         *U9 41%  914425   * Of925  *.404075        07ns           73nAs
AW.t;g..o   tcOL    su  JUStAI)                        0.04235      *77u75    D S3725   D 839475    1 U194S   I St7175    197n65  2 12912S        1234    2 43975   *279375       4 1145    94 %45   5.769235    6 S11111S    7 4012S    SIIIS   9 0175   9 91 47S    1o0601
C Ma Pquar Fi..i ltea            IUSL1)
I 64A_-V  Fic^4lk-_J(USSM)                            40233tC       -415475     -4e141J32   * 23I662    D 7Q715   1050278   1410UUG   J237332   1 3065731 3f I      *J50772018g   u6IS11 S   0 147664    1 clan   114031   1 24)W6      3514SI   1 t464"1   Sill)m  I7057
I HaAW.M. Fw   It-r(Ussaho                           -02}3tC        -0.171147  -024i27n   D4 2617   0 7u003    1761"111 3 17SIS9   4 412592   5.7195.4   7 uM9S9   7 1672S94     *ns MI6 71761   10 71448    11 IS47   I1 0u9     14 }449S4    15 912   17 49747  1970501
V  _ 4llo  *s US$ 7 tim-d
1f  j-, M"g d oIai USi        Ii  _4 4S_                          i.s ulh  S          W-
V U S" JVwA paiA.V lo * 1 S d USS1 * 63S - 1_4 *A.
,V 4.Bhf "V.   .W _       1 Am  *         G*vm I"   of r3I*t lm     4       Ukil- I  "       
6V ooutsr tussw 1) u34 s tA a. kV- rin wd aV &xw _t Bro
3         45 2 11           26972002400224092403  0293975    436* 01 52 1 297373t    31226571    12741547    3111171 *53 1014579524215  5194S Al 5447S   419457    5013211   45403906 S 2642  24DI070   17412  200423T
B PsqiiiEapoilo.ais ~         ..



- 46 -
LAO PDR                                Annex 5
Land Titling Project
Key Performance Indicators
unit    Year 1  Year 2     Year 3   Year 4  Year 5 Year 6 Year 7    Total
1. Base mapping
NGD-Building Renovation         no           1          0       0         0      0      0       0        1
NGO-Building Extension          no           0          0       1         0      0      0       0        1
Aerial Photography:urb.sc. 1:5,500   ha      0      26000       0    25000       0       0      0    51000
rur.sc. 1:12,500  ha           0    215000        0   200000       0      0       0   415000
Map Production: urb. sc. 1:1,000    ha     900       2500  10000    10000  10000  10000         0    43400
rur. sc. 1:4,000  ha        8000      16000  40000    40000  40000  40000         0   134000
2. Adjudication
2.1 Adjudication
Systematic adjud & survey      parcels   3300       7700  18700    45100  75900  75900  75900   302500
Titles issued                 parcels   2640       6160  14960    36080  60720  60720  60720   242000
Sporadic adjud & survey        parcels      0          0   2200       4600   4600   4600   4600    20600
Titles issued                 parcels      0          0   1760      3680   3680   3680   3680    16480
Total Titles issued            parcels   2640       6160  16720    39760  64400  64400  64400   258480
2.2 Systematic Adjud & Survey staff  no     24         45    120        288    456    456    456       4S6
3. Provincial Land Office buildings  no       0          2       3         0      0      0       0        5
4. Valuation Incremental staff   no           1          2       3         3      3       3      3       18
5. Institutional Building
5.1  PSU Staff                               7         13      13        13     13      13     13       13
5.2 PPFU Staff                               8          8      12        20     20     20      20       20
5.3 Sporadic Provincial staff                0          0       6         6      6       6      6        6
6. Local training for systematic adjudication
Adjucication                   no          24          21     75       168    168      20     20      496
Train the Trainers             no           10          5      5         2       0      2      0       24
Briefing Local officials       no           2           4     10        12      12     12     12       64
7. Technical Assistance & Overseas Training
Foreign Advisors               mm          54         57      56        30     19      0       0      216
National Advisors              mm          31         53      82        77     53      0       0      296
Fellowshios                    mm           0         46      58       104     98      0       0      306
Short Term training            mm          13         12      11        31     40      0       0      107
8. Studies
Fees & Cost recovery           mm           0          6       0         0      0      0       0        6
Community land tenure          mm           0          6       0         0      0      0       0        6
Forest Boundary Definition     mm           0          6       0         0      0      0       0        6
Nationalized Lands             mm           6                                                           6
Soc-economic Impact           mm           6          0       0         9      0      0       0       15
Total months for studies       mm           12         18      0         9       0      0      0        39
9. Efficiency & Financial Indicators             REPORTING AND TARGETS TO BE DEVELOPED
9.1 Adjudication Cost of one Title    Kip
9.2 Time required for
Aoiudication of one titleiteam  days
Transaction regist. of one title  hour        TARGETS TO DEVELOPED IN PY2 AND 3
9.3 No. titles produced/team/mth    titles
9.4 No. titles regist. by landholder   titles
Maie                                          MONITOR
Female
Male & Female
other (companies etc)
size - urb & rur by province  ha
9.5 Annual Revenues
No. titles issued/year        title
revenues from cadastral &                      TARGETS TO BE DEVELOPED IN PY2/3
Kip
Revenues from land taxes/year   Kip
Revenues from outstanding
taxeslyear                     Kip
No. titles transacted/type/year  titles
Kip
totai trans/total land office staff/prov
Mapping Information
Each urban map sheet = 25 hectares
Eacn rural map sheet = 400 hectares
Note: aoout 36,000 ha was flown under AusAID pilot project (scale 1:12.500)
Also the Finmap 1991 large scale aerial photography (1 :6000)is available to use for PY1 & PY2
0 Q a2OWlc3al.41



- 47 -
Annex 6
Page 1
LAO PDR
LAND TITLING PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Terms of Reference
February 13,1996
1.         Director. Technical Assistance Coordination. (7 months) This expert should have an
appropriate tertiary qualification and at least ten years experience, part of which would have been in the
management of large projects involving higil levels of planning and coordination.  The main
responsibilities would be:
(a)      the direction and overall coordination of the technical assistance program;
(b)      assisting the Team Leader with the project and TA administration including
planning, coordination. monitoring, and evaluation;
(c)      overview of the project's training programs particularly that funded by AusAID;
and
(d)      fostering liaison with DOLHM, and other GOL agencies, AusAID, and IDA.
2.          Team Leader . (60 months). This specialist should have an appropriate tertiary qualification
and at least 10 years experience in land registration, systematic adjudication, land law, or cadastral
survey. Must have particular experience and skills in the management of large projects and multiple
discipline consultant teams. International experience is essential. The mnain responsibilities would
include:
(a)      Management of the project technical assistance advisers and co-management with
the Project Director of the overall technical assistance program;
(b)      assist PSU and GOL in project management, especially in the technical aspects
of the project, coordination of project activities and in the preparation of project
reports; especially before the start of work of the contracted Project
Administrator;
(c)      assistance in the establishment and operations of the Project Support Unit
particularly in the technical planning for the project and agency coordination
between NGD, DOLHM, PA, the field adjudication teams, the provincial
administration units;
(d)      coordination of the in-country and inernational training program; also the IDA
funded studies outlined in Annex 8;



- 48 -
Annex 6
Page 2
(e)       assist DOLHM, PA, the adjudication teams in organizing a M & E system at
least on a six monthly basis as well as a quality assurance process for the project
products;
(f)       with DOLHM support the project in its operation in provinces especially with the
support of provincial advisers, and their initial training in Vientiane; and
(g)       ensure close relations are maintained with the Lao Women's Union (LWU)
particularly at the provincial level concerning gender and related issues and that
its views are considered in the project.
3.          Svstematic Adiudication Adviser. (15 months). This specialist should have an appropriate
tertiary qualification and at least 10 years experience in systematic adjudication and/ or registration. Mvlust
have particular experience and skills in systematic adjudication and registration. Inernational experience
is essential. The main responsibilities would include:
(a)       with DOLHM  after reviewing the first two pilot projects, develop and support
the implementation of the operational trials for the first two years of the project
and refine the proposed svstematic adjudication and registration process focusing
on the technical aspects, with the support of the cadastral survey and mapping
specialists;
(b)       with DOLHM prepare procedure manuals to support the systematic registration
process. establish the svstematic training program, participating in the first
program;
(c)       with DOLHM plan and support the annual recruitment, training, and deployment
of the staff for the public sector systematic registration teams, as well as the
management of those teams.
(d)       with DOLHM  develop, document, and support implementation of quality
assurance measures for each stage of the systematic adjudication and registration
process, capitalizing where possible on self proving or downstream checks by
other parties;
(e)       assist PSU and the Team Leader in the coordination of the rational provincial
advisers;
(f)       assist DOLHM  and the land registration law adviser in further refining the
Ministerial Direction on systematic land titling and the development of a piece
of legislation for land registration;
(g)       assist DOLHM and the land registration adviser in the development and planning
for the transfer of the records and titles to the provincial offices;
(h)       develop and plan the implementation of production reporting procedures for the
systematic registration teams in terms of the key project indicators, and ways to



- 49 -
Annex 6
Page 3
track parcels that where not included in the process together with the reasons for
this, and those titles that cannot be issued to land holder; also monitor the
percentage of parcels with inheritance issues, evidence held by mortgagee,
absentee owners, and land holder/parcel details including gender, size, and broad
land use category.
4.          GPS/Geodetic Adjustment Specialist. (8 months).  This expert would have a tertiary
qualification in surveying or geodesy, with at least five years experience in satellite surveying and the
field of GPS equipment, both in kinematic and static mode. the reduction of GPS data, the integration
of GPS data into geodetic adjustments, particularly in support of mapping programs. Experience in the
establishment of primary control networks is essential. International experience is desirable. The main
responsibilities would be:
(a)      after review with NGD. establish training programs in GPS and geodetic
adjustments as agreed and for NGD staff;
(b)      with DOLHM, NGD, the mapping adviser, and the systematic registration
adviser, recommnend to the Director, DOLHM, a suitable map projection for the
project (the cadastral mapping under the project), which closest results in a scale
factor of 1.0 for a maximum number of areas in Lao PDR; this decision should
be made as soon as possible, before NGD starts on the mapping using the
1995/96 pilot project aerial photography;
(c)      with NGD undertake the development of specifications and contract documents
for the purchase of GPS receivers and computer equipment, and assist as
necessary PA and PSU with related procurement;
(d)      with NGD  develop procedures and methodologies for establishing and
coordinating photo control points using GPS technology including integration
with other data acquisition tools such as EDM, plus building in quality assurance
techniques, and support NGD in putting the new procedures into operation:
(e)      with the Mapping Adviser develop procedures to efficiently establish mapping
control especially using GPS and write a specification for contracting out this
work, and work with NGD in developing methods to allow NGD or others to
supervise such contracts;
(f)      provide advice to NGD and DOLHM on matters relating to GPS including the
future use of hand held GPS receivers for cadastral surveys;
(g)      with NGD develop procedures and methodologies for densifying the existing
control network using GPS technology; and
(h)      incorporate supervision procedures into all of the above operations for
supervisors, and develop an operational manual consisting of all the above topics.



- 50 -
Annex 6
Page 4
5.          Mapping Soecialist. (4 months). This expert would have a tertiary qualification in surveying,
photogrammetry, cartography or related discipline, with at least 5 years experience in photogrammetry
including its applications to cadastral mapping programs. It is desirable that the specialist be a qualified
cadastral surveyor. Main responsibilities would be:
(a)      provide professional assistance and advice to NGD, DOLHM, and the project;
(b)      with NGD and DOLHM review or plan the aerial photography to be flown under
the project in PY 1/2 and give technical support as necessary to the PA and PSU
in the ICB procurement process, including the preparation of technical
specifications and any special conditions necessary for the contract, gain approval
for the package, and pass onto PA for procurement; NGD should be supported
with the development of contract supervision and quality assurance measures;
(c)      with NGD prepare the technical specifications for contracting the photomapping
by ICB, and support NGD in developing contract supervision methods all
incorporating quality assurance procedures;
(d)      support NGD in the supervision of the aerial photography and mapping contracts
in PY1/2, arranging a supervision and quality assurance plan for the products and
assist NGD in the execution of the quality checking and certifying the products
ready for payment;
(e)      with NGD undertake the preparation of the technical specifications for the
equipment to be procured for NGD in the first two years of the project, with
timing according to the project's annual work plan or procurement plan, liaising
with PA and PSU; and ensuring adequate training programs in the contracts:
(f)      assist NGD in the preparation of the project's annual mapping program:
(g)      with the geodetic specialist and others recommend a suitable map projection
which would serve the project and country best for cadastral mapping and
surveying purposes;
(h)      undertake the development of training programs on map usage for DOLHM staff
at head office and project supported provincial offices;
(i)      assist NGD, DOLHM, and the Education adviser, and the National Polytechnic
Institute in plans for the establishment of suitable photogrammetric, cartographic,
cadastral surveying, and land administration courses and the development of
subject content;
(j)      working with DOLHM and in a team with the systematic registration adviser and
cadastral surveying specialist; develop improved methods to use the photomaps
for parcel boundary identification and ways of integrating tape measurements
with the photomaps;



- 51 -
Annex 6
Page 5
(k)      work with the GPS/Geodetic Adviser in the establishment of procedures to
efficiently acquire photo control; and
(1)      investigate for NGD improved utilization of photogrammetry for the preparation
of base maps.
6.          Cadastral Survev Specialist. (15 months) This expert should have a tertiary qualification
in surveying and be a qualified cadastral surveyor. The specialist should have ten years of cadastral
survey experience at a management and systems design level. International experience is essential. The
main responsibilities would be to:
(a)      review the cadastral survev techniques used in the pilot studies;
(b)      further develop the cadastral survey methodology for both urban and rural areas;
(c)      Recommend suitable boundary marking techniques and responsibilities;
(d)      Develop cadastral map  compilation techniques for the systematic field
adjudication teams. and parcel diagram drawing especially supporting the
computer-assisted techniques;
(e)      working with DOLHM and in a team with the systematic registration adviser and
mapping adviser; develop improved methods to use the photomaps for parcel
boundary identification and ways of integrating ground based surveys with the
photomaps;
(e)      develop training courses for cadastral survey and present the first one, and train
at least two trainers;
(f)      assist the systematic adjudication adviser with development of the total systematic
procedure aimning at simultaneous operations for the adjudicators and surveyors;
(g)      document the procedures in the form of a handbook for field and office staff;
(h)      Investigate the potential, costs and benefits of the use of low cost sub meter GPS
systems for the project (capitalize on the Indonesian LAP investigation); and
(i)      support the Education adviser in the investigation of suitable education
alternatives for the advancement of cadastral survey in Lao PDR.
7.          Land Registration - Law. (6 months) This expert should have a degree or diploma in law
with at least 10 year work experience in the review and improvement of land legislation, particularly in
the development of land registration laws. Inernational experience is essential, and experience with civil
code or continental law systems desirable. The main duties would include:
(a)      with DOLHM, and MOJ, the land law adviser, the policy adviser, and selected
advisers, review the current land registration law and procedures and make



- 52 -
Annex 6
Page 6
recommendations for improvements (see b. below); work with government to
agree relevant policy directions and develop an action plan for drafting,
reviewing, and gaining approval of a draft law;
(b)       with DOLHM, the land law adviser, the land registration adviser and others,
undertake the development of land registration legislation and regulations in
accordance with the GOL agreed action plan; moving from the present system
of document/transaction registration toward a registration of title system,
concerning parcels registered by systematic and sporadic first-time registration;
(c)       before the end of the assignment, work with the team to develop a work and
action plan to address outstanding registration issues, and for the drafting of
regulations.
(d)       From home base support the review of the community land tenure study when
available, relative to land law.
8.          Land Registration System Adviser. (18 months) This specialist should have an appropriate
tertiary qualification and at least 10 years of experience in land registration including in the international
sphere. Of particular importance is experience in up-grading registration systems. For both the
systematic and sporadic provincial and prefecture offices to be supported under the project, the main
responsibilities would be:
(a)       with DOLHM and the TA land registration law adviser, support a review of the
land law, and support the adoption of legislation, regulations and ministerial
directions for land registration by mid 1997, particularly moving from the present
document/transaction registration system toward a registration of title system;
(b)       in parallel with (a), prepare recommendations for improvements in the land
registration systems, especially in streamlining document checking, land records,
and customer contact including by using product organization of the office rather
than functional, also by using "business risk techniques," multi-skilled staff,
information technology, all with minimum customer contact and visits. Include
quality assurance provisions in the processes.  With DOLHM  commence
implementation in a model office, then develop a timebound action plan for other
offices;
(c)       with DOLHM  and the TA  architect/ engineer specialist and MCTCP as
appropriate, support a review of existing land office designs and develop standard
designs for new buildings and renovations using appropriate criteria, and support
the approval of the designs by the appropriate authorities;
(d)       with DOLHM and the systematic adjudication adviser, plan and help guide the
smooth transfer of land records from the systematic registration teams to the
provincial land offices, as well as the distribution of the certificates to the land
holders;



- 53 -
Annex 6
Page 7
(e)       assist the information system analyst with the development of a first stage of
computerized land registration system in the Vientiane prefecture, also investigate
the feasibility of microfilming or other suitable technology for land records
management, for the provincial land offices supported under the project;
(f)       with DOLHM review the present provincial DOLHM reporting procedures and
support the implementation of improvements, including the data acquired for the
key project indicators: and
(g)       assist DOLHM  in the feasibility study, development and implementation of a
program to compile cadastral maps of existing registered parcels in project
supported land offices; and
(h)       assist DOLHM  in the commissioning and the writing of guidelines for all the
above procedures.
9.          Primarv Valuation Adviser. (15 months) The adviser should have appropriate tertiary
qualifications, eligibility for corporate membership of a recognized valuation institute, and have a
demonstrated ability and experience in designing and implementing new valuation systems. The main
responsibilities include:
(a)       with DSA and DOLHM. review the valuation pilot study results especially its
applicability to the whole of Lao PDR and particularly in each of the major cities
in the four areas of the project;
(b)       with DSA, support the implementation of the new system in four districts of
Vientiane, with valuations produced responding to the demand for valuation on
the occurrence of transactions;
(c)       with DSA and the provinces, design and assist in the implementation of the new
valuation system in a phased manner, in the central districts of Savannaket,
Pakse, and Luang Prabang, with full controls and monitoring;
(d)       design and support the implementation of quality control procedures on valuations
- also support the adoption of procedures to improve the quality of valuation
records;
(e)       with che support of the HRD adviser, design new training courses and support
the conduct of the first course making sure of the "training of trainers"; also
support the education adviser in the investigation and start-up of valuation
education; and
(f)       support the study on Land Administration fees and cost recovery consultancy;
also the work of the land law adviser to assure that a legal framework is
established in support of DSA and DOLHM valuations.



54  -
Annex 6
Page 8
10.         Valuation Policv. (4 months) The adviser should be a senior land/or valuation adviser with
appropriate tertiary qualifications, and have a demonstrated ability to work at a policy level with
governments preferably dealing with land and valuation issues. International experience is essential. The
main responsibilities include:
(a)       review the role and objectives of the Valuation Committee and support it to better
address its policy, review and oversight functions;
(b)      support GOL in appreciating the important roles of real property valuations in a
market economy and the roles of both public and private sector valuers;
(c)       review the issues relating to access to valuation information and develop options
and incentives for its wider availability especially to land holders;
(d)      develop options and means for a public appeals process against government
valuations and present same to DSA and GOL;
(e)       with the land policy adviser, devise improvements in the management of
government lands which fall under the jurisdiction of DSA, and support DSA in
their adoption and the first steps of implementation; and
(f)       support DSA with policy advice as necessary.
11.         Valuation Computer Svstems Adviser. (6 months) The adviser should have an appropriate
tertiary qualification either in computer sciences. land information systems. management information
systems, or other relevant discipline, with considerable experience in the design and implementation of
information systems. Direct experience in computerized valuation or land records management would
be desirable. The main areas of responsibilities include:
(a)      review the computer-assisted valuation system implemented for the pilot project
and design and implement improvements for the PC based system including:
adequate capacity; better reporting, inquiry and up-dating routines; access by
external users; ease of database management system up-grade, and ease of user
programming; and useful analysis routines;
(b)      conduct full user training in the use of the system to DSA, MOF, and the
Prefecture and district staff as well as training in the operation of the system to
at least two DSA staff and others; conduct awareness workshops to potential
users as identified; and specific user oriented skills training with the system;
(c)      document the system in manuals - one for users, and one for the technical
operators and systems maintenance staff; and
(d)      other technical advise as requested by DSA.
12.         Land Law. (12 months) This expert should have a degree or diploma in law with at least
10 years work experience in the review and improvement of land legislation, tenure, land transactions,



- 55 -
Annex 6
Page 9
and land administration systems. International experience is essential, and most desirably in civil code
or continental law systems. The main duties would include:
(a)      working with DOLHMN. the Ministrv of Justice and a selected adviser team,
develop a work and action plan to address outstanding land law legislation and
regulations issues;
(b)      in a team with DOLHNI and the Ministry of Justice, the national law adviser, and
the land registration adviser. and others, undertake law improvements as
identified in (a) above to include: (i) land law legal framework completion; (ii)
in support of the land registration law to complement the systematic adjudication
direction (MD 990); (iii) land professionals legislation and regulation to assure
quality and standards in the work of lawyers, surveyors, and others, under the
land laws, and (iv) the proposed mortgage law. In all this work, start with the
development of papers addressing policy issues and seek GOL guidance on their
resolution; and the development of agreed action plans to draft the laws; and
(c)       with the team review the overall land laws and propose improvements addressing
amendments, additions. gaps, and overlaps. Also review the current mortgage
laws and make recommendations for improvements not only on the operation but
also on their registration.
13.         Land Policv Adviser. (6 months). This expert should have appropriate tertiary qualifications
and extensive experience in the formulation of policy for government consideration.  International
experience is essential and experience in Lao PDR is desirable. The main responsibilities would be:
(a)      in conjunction with DOLHM and other relevant Government agencies, undertake
a review of land management and administration policy issues identifying key
areas for further development, writing a position paper presenting and examining
options for improvement and making recommendations, incorporating where
appropriate the studies in (b) below; with a first draft due at the end of PY2 for
review, and the final report in PY3;
(b)      with DOLHM  and other relevant Government agencies, oversee, review the
TORs, review the first draft reports, and to the extent possible, coordinate the
planned policy studies on commnunity land tenure, forest boundary issues, the
efficiency of use of nationalized lands, as well as on cost recovery in land
registration, and the socio-economic baseline; and support the presentation of the
final reports in a series of seminars and workshops in order to be generate
awareness and to foster consensus in the development of policy in these key
areas; and
(c)       assist the Land Law  Adviser by ensuring that the necessary laws under
development, especially those for land adjudication and registration, have the
support of policy makers and are in terms of the overall policy framework.



- 56 -
Annex 6
Page 10
14.        Customer Relations and Service Adviser (CRS). (6 months). This expert should have at least
ten years experience in public sector public relations activities. International experience is desirable.
Experience with agencies responsible for land administration is also desirable. The main responsibilities
are:
(a)      with DOLHM review CRS in all pilot projects to-date, and develop land holder
relations requirements in support of the systematic adjudication and registration
teams. also the public relations necessary with local government at the province,
district and village levels: and improve the current Project's CRS design for the
systematic program, and che meeting structure proposed and suggest
improvements; appropriate methods should be suggested for both urban and rural
areas; the procedures developed and implemented should include CRS quality
assurance measures;
(b)      with DOLHM develop the organizational and resource requirements to support
the customer relations and service activities being undertaken as part of the
Project, review against the project design, and develop an action plan for
implementation;
(c)      develop a strategy to enhance land holder participation in the systematic
registration program starting in the Vientiane Prefecture and the four provinces;
(d)      with DOLHM  design public relations programs and schemes to educate the
public on the importance of land registration and land administration systems and
in so doing support the development of the land administration system: develop
national and provincial initiatives along these lines, and recommend to DOLHM,
and start implementation of same; and
(e)      with DOLHM set up systems to monitor CRS service performance particularly
tracking the key project indicators concerned with efficiency.
15.        Communitv Development and WID Adviser. (5 months). This expert should be a qualified
sociologist/ anthropologist with an appropriate tertiary qualifications and extensive experience in
community development especially involving gender issues. International experience is essential and
experience in Lao PDR is desirable. The main responsibilities would be:
(a)      review the plans for addressing gender and ethnic minority requirements in the
project particularly in the systematic adjudication and registration process, and
make recommendations for improvement;
(b)      with the national consultant develop a gender awareness training course for the
svstematic adjudication teams, present the first course making sure trainers will
be able to continue the presentation;
(c)      during PY3 and PY4 arrange the monitoring of the way the project is handling
gender issues and make recommendations to the Project Director for
improvements; and



- 57 -
Annex 6
Page I1
(d)      as a contribution to the community land tenure study due to start in PY1,
working closely with the national community development adviser, prepare a
position paper on gender and minorities in land administration in Lao PDR,
contrasting the traditional and modern frameworks, present options and make
recommendations, due at the end of PY2.
16.        Architect/Civil Engineer. (2 months) The specialist should have tertiary qualifications in
architecture or civil engineering and have at least 10 years experience in the design and supervision of
civil works, including considerable experience in the design of government office buildings. The main
responsibilities of the consultant include:
(a)      with DOLHM and the land registration advisor and others, review and further
develop the design requirements for the proposed land offices based on existing
and planned numbers of staff, planned number of land parcels, expected number
of documents, expected number of transactions, and considering information
technology (IT);
(b)      with DOLHM, develop the TOR for the architect/engineering consulting firm
which would design and supervise the civil works funded under the project;
(c)      assist the Government in the design of the bid evaluation and the selection
procedures of a suitable consulting engineering firm;
(d)      assist the government in evaluating and approving the architectural/engineering
designs and the bills of quantities;
(e)      design the evaluation criteria for the selection of the actual building contractors;
and
(f)      develop a work plan for the national consultant to enable a continuous
supervision process of the civil works.
17.        HRD. (13 months). This expert should have appropriate tertiary qualifications in human
resource development and training or education, with at least five years experience with human resource
development in the public sector, and with good experience in designing and conducting training courses
and in personnel management. International experience is essential and experience in South East Asia
desirable. The main responsibilities would be:
(a)      with DOLHM, review and assess the current human resource of DOLHM and
the LHMOs, and any initiatives to introduce HRD programs;
(b)      with DOLHM and where appropriate with the education adviser, assess the
potential benefits of associations between DOLHM and educational and training
institutions in Lao PDR;



- 58 -
Annex 6
Page 12
(c)       with DOLHM, develop HRD programs to support the various components of the
project; particularly isolating staff incentives to undertaking training, and
institutional disincentives that impede training and education;
(d)       with DOLHM, develop short, medium  and long term  strategies for HRD
including personnel management, especially promotion systems and career
planning;
(e)       with project agencies and appropriate advisers, identify training needs and design
appropriate in-service and out-service training programs; culminating in a
training strategy and program for the project;
(f)       assist the Systematic Registration Advisers, the mapping adviser, cadastral
surveying, and others in designing training programs to support the project;
(g)       assist the Adviser working on the OMO study in defining the strategies for HRD,
and to implement improved training programs in DOLHM;
(h)       in association with the Team Leader and DOLHM, the preparation of a detailed
program of intemational training for Lao personnel to support the Project
objectives; and
(i)      in association with appropriate international government agencies, design and
implement special work experience training courses to achieve defined training
requirements.
18.         Education Specialist.  (3 months)  This expert should have post graduate tertiary
qualifications in surveying or land administration or a related field, appropriate tertiary experience in
education and training, with at least ten years experience in a cadastral/land management topics. as well
as vast experience in curriculum development.  International experience is desirable.   The main
responsibilities would be:
(a)       undertake a rapid educational needs requirements study for DOLHM  and the
project, and then review the current educational possibilities that exist in Lao
PDR and beyond, for land administration topics including valuation;
(b)       devise a strategy to enable the project to be best served by any appropriate
courses and subjects, or if none, should the project assist in their development
or use those elsewhere;
(c)       explore the potential for the development of a land administration course or
similar in Lao PDR, or the option of using established overseas courses; develop
course concepts, content. and topic outlines;



- 59 -
Annex 6
Page 13
19.        Information Svstems Analvst. (4 months) The consultant should have an appropriate tertiary
qualification either in Computer Sciences, Land Information Systems, Management Information Systems,
or other relevant discipline, with considerable experience in the design and implementation of
computerized land records management systems. The main areas of responsibilities include:
(a)      with the DOLHM, design and program macros in support of field teams for
computer assisted certificate production and other requirements as necessary;
(b)      with DOLHM, design and program  of a simple computerized management
system in support of the systematic adjudication field teams;
(c)      with MOF and the valuation systems analyst achieve linkages between the
systems being established for land registration purposes and valuation purposes,
especially cormmon data standards, data maintenance strategy, and data input;
technology architecture: and if possible in the actual logical and physical designs
of the systems, for the computerized land registration and valuation management
systems in Vientiane Prefecrure;
(d)      with Vientiane prefecture, develop a preliminary conceptual design for land
registration system and have it reviewed and agreed;
(e)      develop the technical specification for the computerized land registration system
bidding document;
(f)      assist the PA in the bid evaluation and the selection of consultants; and
(g)      assist Vientiane prefecture in testing the system once it is implemented.
20.         OMO Adviser. (3 months in PY4). This expert should have appropriate tertiary qualifications
and at least ten years experience in management, with experience in organization, management and
operations studies and public sector administrative reform. International experience is essential and
experience in SE Asia desirable. Experience with an agency responsible for land administration is also
desirable. The main responsibilities would be to:
(a)      conduct an Organization. Management, and Operations Study, producing a report
with detailed options and recommendations; review the current roles of DOLHM
and the LHMOs and assess the impact of any foreseeable changes;
(b)      identify the mandates functions of the agencies that are not well supported by the
existing DOLHM and LHMOs organizational structure, particularly the areas of
policy review and formulation, LHMO's support functions and the collection and
maintenance of reliable statistical data;
(c)      review the current DOLHM and LHMOs organizational structure, and how they
address the defined roles, particularly looking at the linkages between activities
and how these linkages can be improved and supported, yet preserve flexibility
in the allocation of DOLHM resources;



- 60 -
Annex 6
Page 14
(c)      review the current DOLHM and LHMOs organizational structure, and how they
address the defined roles, particularly looking at the linkages between activities
and how these linkages can be improved and supported, yet preserve flexibility
in the allocation of DOLHM resources;
(d)      review the impact of the Land Titling Project on DOLHM and LHMOs and
prepare detailed recommendations on organizational changes for consideration by
MOF; and
(e)      make a presentation of the issues, options, and reconmmendations to MoF,
DOLHM and the project, on the findings of the OMO consultancy, and define
an action plan for implementation.
TORs for the National Advisers.
The TORs for the national advisers are contained in the project file.



- 61 -
LAO POR
LANO TITUNG PROJECT                                                  Annex a
T.bht 1
Technial Assisance Speciaists To Be Financed By AusAID                           Page 1
INTERNATIONAL SPECIAUSTS                                     prson months
PY1    PY2    PY3    PY4   PY5   TotWl
Director, TA                                      2        1       1     2      1       7
Tean Leader/ManagerTA                             12      12      12    12    12       60
Systemadc Adjudcation                              3       a       4     0      0      15
GPS/Geodetic Adiustment                           3        5       0     0      0       a
Mapping                                           2        2       0     0      0       4
Cadastrai Survey                                  3        a       a     0      0      15
Land Registration-LAw                              4       2       0     0      0       a
Land Rengistmtion-System Implenentation            0       0      12     6      0      18
Valuation System                                   5       5       5     0      0      1S
Valuation Policy                                   2       2       a     0      0       4
Valuaton System Analyst-Computer                   a       3       3     0      0       6
Land Law                                           a       4       2     0      0      12
Land Policy                                        4       2       a     0      0       0
Customer Relation Services                         0       0       2     2      2       6
WOD Specialist                                     t       1       2      1     0       5
Archkect/Engineer                                  1       1       0     0      0       2
HRD                                                3       3       4     3      0      13
Education Specialist                               3       0       0     0      0       3
Informaton System-Registration                     0       0       3      1     0       4
OMO                                                a       a       0     3      0       3
Unallocated                                        0       0       0     0      4       4
Subtotal                                          54      57      58    30    19    216
NATIONAL SPECIAUSTS
Systematic/Registaton                              3      12      12    12      9      48
Geodetic/Survey Control                            3       a       3     0      0      12
Cadastral Survey                                   3       a      12    12      3      36
Valuation                                          8      12      12      6     0      36
Land Law Specist                                   9       a       a     a      0      21
Provincial Advisors (3)                            0       0      24    36    36       #6
SpecidistCRStW1O                                   2       3       a     4      2      17
H1RD                                               3       a       6      6     3      24
Architect/Engineer                                 2       2       1      1     0       a
Subtotal                                          31      53      82    77    S3    296
TOTAL                                             S6     110    136   107    72    512



- 62 -
LAO POR                              Ax
Land ritUn ProjeC                          ab 2
Page 2
OVERSEAS EDUCATION. TRAINIG. WORK EXPENUENCE. ANO STUOY TOURS RJNOED BY AUSAID
Peson Months
Sehoiarshios                          Pyl       PyF2        PY3        PY4       PY5 Tati Mbh
Survey                                           8          8         16         16       48
Digital mapping                                  8          8         12         12       40
Land Admin/ rag                                  4          6         16         18       44
Work experience                                  a          6         20         22       54
Land Information systems                                              10        1t         20
Public administration                                                 10         10        20
Valuation (4 in SIT, Bangkok})                  20         30         20         10        80
7otalz (Australia)                    a         28         28         84         88       226
All Scholarships                      0         46         S8        104         98      306
Short Term
Land law study tour                   2                                                     2
Lane Policy training                                                   2          2         4
cIPS raining                          2                     2                     2         a
G-PS study tours                      2          3                                          5
Photcgracnic develogment              1          1                      1                   3
Valuation study tour                                        3          8          8        is
Valuavion -raining                               2                     2          2         6
Lanc admir.is.ation                                                    8          8        16
Adi & regisz                          6          2          2          4          6        20
Aci & reg:s- Stucy tour                          2          2          4          a        14
Cadastral survey                                 2          2          2          a        12
Total Short Term                     13         1Z         11         31         40       107
Grand 7otal                           13         58         6s        135        138       413



- 63 -
Annex 7
Page 1
LAO PDR
LAND TITLING PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
PROJECT ADMINISTRATOR
I. BACKGROUND
1.    The Government of the Lao People's Democratic Republic (referred to in this
document as "Lao PDR", "Laos' or "GOL") is undertaking a Land Titling Project for the
Prefecture of Vientiane and the province of Vientiane, Luang Prabang, Savannakhet and
Champassak. The project will be implemented by the Department , of Lands and Housing
Management (DOLHM) which is a dependency of the Ministry of Finance (MOF).
2.    The project, estimated to cost US$28.4 million, would support the first seven years
of a longer term national land titling program aimed at extending secure land ownership and
developing land administration and valuation systems including compiling a cadastral
mapping system. The main components of the project are:
(a)   strengthening of the policy and legal framework for land administration and
management;
(b)   implementation  of an accelerated  land titling program  including base
mapping, systematic registration and sporadic registration;
(c)   improvements  in the  infrastructure,  facilities  and  systems for land
administration;
(d)   improvements in land valuation;
(e)   support for project management and implementation, and institutional
strengthening; and
(f)   studies on community land tenure and registration, definition of forest
boundaries, cost recovery, efficiency and land rights issues on nationalized
lands and socioeconomic impact of land titling.



- 64 -
Annex 7
Page 2
3.    The Government of Lao PDR has applied for a credit from the International
Development Agency (IDA). Once the credit is approved, the proceeds will be utilized for
various expenditures of the project including the hiring of a consulting firm to provide
support to the project management, implementation and support as well as the institutional
strengthening of the implementation agency. DOLHM.
4.    In parallel, the Government of Lao PDR has requested a Technical Assistance grant
from the Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID) for the technical
support in the area of land titling, mapping and related activities.
II. CONSULTAiNCY SERVICES REOUIRED
1.    The support mentioned in 1.2(e) above. is critical for the success of the project as the
implementation agency, DOLHM, has had very little experience in the area of project
manaeement and implementation techniques and has never carried out a project of this
magnitude. To this end, the project envisions the contracting of a consulting firm to act as
Project Administrator (PA) which will provide services including, but not limited to the
areas of:
(a)   procurement, contract administration & monitoring;
(b)   disbursements and financial control; and
(c)   training DOLHM's Project Support Unit (PSU) staff.
2.    The magnitude of the project and of the work to be done can be understood from
the following information:
(a)   the total project cost is estimnated at approximately US$28.4 million which
includes a technical assistance provided by funds from AusAID for technical
work including designs and specifications and expert training in the field of
land titling, mapping, aerophotography, systematic adjudication, valuations,
etc. (US$5.1 million equivalent). The IDA credit will be for US$20.7 million
and the balance represents counterpart funding.
(b)    16 major procurement packages for a total estimated value of the equivalent
of approximately US$20 million shown in Annex 1;
(c)    bar graph of procurement stages shown in Annex 2; and



- 65 -
Annex 7
Page 3
(d)   the PSU staff which will be comprised of one Project Manager (head of the
PSU), 1-2 procurement officer trainees, 1-2 financial/disbursement officer
trainees, 1-2 project supervisor/controller trainees and administrative and
support staff, are to be trained in all areas of project management, which will
include the following, as a minimum:
-    international and national procurement
-   contract administration and monitoring
-   planning and budgeting
-   receiving, storing and delivering
-   financial control of project
-   processing disbursement requests
-   processing claims
-   managing project accounts
-    managing statements of expenses
-   reporting
III. OBJECTIVES AkN) SCOPE OF WORK
1.    Externally, the PA will act for and on behalf of the Project Director and Project
manager whereas internally, it will assume the overall responsibility to manage the project
implementation. The PA will train the staff of the Project Support Unit of DOLHM to
assume the overall responsibility and administration of the project.
2.    Procurement. Contract Administration and Monitoring.
(a)   The PA will be responsible for carrying out procurement functions on behalf
of DOLHM in accordance with the procedures outlined in the World Bank
Guidelines and specified in the Credit Agreement with the Borrower.
(b)   For procurement  conducted  according  to procedures  of International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), the PA will:
(i)   arrange advertising and provide information to interested suppliers;
(ii)   prepare bidding documents in all respects, including the review of
technical specifications in coordination with the AusAID technical
experts when this is called for, using the World Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents (SBDs) with appropriate adjustments to suit
individual procurement packages; seek approval of documents from
IDA which would involve discussions, meetings or prior review;



- 66 -
Annex 7
Page 4
(iii)  prepare documents for the selection of consultants complying with IDA
requirements;
(iv)   distribute/sell bidding documents to prospective bidders at a nominal
cost, crediting the funds received to the Borrower's account;
(v)   prepare and send out letters of invitation;
(vi)   provide clarifications in response to potential bidders' questions;
(vii)  conduct the bid opening process and prepare the minutes of bid
opening;
(viii)  evaluate bids and consultants' offers and submit a bid evaluation report
to the Project Director or the GOL Evaluation Committee, through
the PSU, with award recommendation.  Provide any clarification or
analysis required by IDA;
(ix)   guide the PAU and Project Director on the approvals and clearances
required from the Government and from IDA;
(x)   when designated to do so, sign and fmalize the contract, follow-up and
monitor the delivery schedule and status of goods which could include
visits to suppliers;
(xi)   when required, arrange and witness pre-shipment inspections; and
(xii)  receive goods at entry, clear customs, and deliver to final destination.
(c)    For non-ICB procurement, the PA would follow the appropriate procedures
specified in the Credit Agreement, including:
(i)   soliciting written quotations from a list of potential suppliers broad
enough to secure competitive prices and informing DOLHM, through
the PSU, of the results in writing; evaluating the quotaions and
negotiating the resulting contracts;
(ii)   soliciting quotation on sole source basis, after required approvals, and
negotiating with supplier for spare parts or other proprietary items at
reasonable cost; and



- 67 -
Annex 7
Page 5
(iii)   when designated to do so, placing purchase orders and contracts with
selected suppliers, including follow-up for delivery of goods according
to schedule.
(d)    in the area of contract administration  services, the PA will:
(i)    collect documentation, such as inspection certificates, certificates of
origin/manufacturer,  manufacturer/suppliers'   guarantees,  bills of
lading, beneficiary insurance certificates, and manufacturers' invoices;
(ii)   forward documentation  to the forwarding agent;
(iii)  setting and controlling the contracts' quality assurance in the various
project sites;
(iv)   inspection and acceptance of works and goods delivered in the various
project sites;
(v)    monitor the progress of construction works in the various project sites,
measure, certify quantities when necessary, variation adjustments and
monitor the supply and delivery of goods and the work of consultants,
in relation to the schedules;
(vi)   propose to the Project Director through the PSU, remedial measures
to take when delays are noted in the progress of works contracts,
manufacturing and shipment of goods and in the carrying out of
consulting services; and
3.    Project Planning. The PA  will establish project planning, budget, performance
indicators, monitoring and evaluation systems and reports. During the first year of its
consultancy, the PA will prepare the Project Plan, budget, monitoring systems and reports
with the assistance of and while training PSU staff. During the second year these functions
should be prepared by the PSU staff under the supervision of the PMA which, if necessary,
will assume the role of advisors to PSU subsequently.
4.    In the area of disbursements and financial control. the PA will:
(a)    establish all project accounting and management control systems, including
budgets, which conforn to the requirements of the project, guidelines of IDA
and regulations of GOL;



- 68 -
Annex 7
Page 6
(b)    during the first year of project implementation, maintain accounting and
financial management including the project accounts while training PSU staff
in the management of the system.
(c)    during the second year or as soon as the PSU staff acquire the necessary
skills, supervise the PSU staff managing the system. Subsequently and if
necessary, the PA should be available to advise PSU on accounting and
financial matters.
(d)    Financial Management will include, inter alia, the following:
(i)    handle warranty and insurance claims;
(ii)   evaluate and process invoices presented by contractors, suppliers and
consultants;
(iii)  arrange payments to contractors and suppliers through the PSU;
(iv)   prepare  and  submit to the  Project Director through  the PSU,
disbursement requests from the IDA credit, with the required
supporting documentation;
(v)   maintain strict control of the project costs versus the budget, linking
costs to project outputs, and propose remedial measures when overruns
are detected; and
(vi)  prepare financial statements required for project accounting.
5.    In the area of trainine. the PA will undertake the training of the PSU staff in the
following areas:
(a)   international commercial practices and WB/IDA  procurement procedures,
including familiarization with the Standard Bidding Documents so that the
said staff can eventually handle the procurement work in the future.
(b)    monitoring the progress of works contracts, supply and delivery of goods and
the carrying out of consulting services;
(c)    monitoring project costs, project accounting and preparation  of financial
statements;
(d)    evaluating and processing invoices from suppliers, contractors and consultants;



- 69 -
Annex 7
Page 7
(e)   preparing and submitting disbursement requests from the IDA credit;
(f)   other project management aspects such us coordination, planning, work plan
development, budgeting, quality management, monitoring implementation,
evaluating progress ; and
(g)   preparing progress and final reports.
6.    The PA will carry out the technology transfer through on-the-job-training and through
formal seminars. In organizing the seminars. the PA will take advantage of and coordinate
with the training services provided by the Foreign Currency Departnent of the Ministry of
Finance.
(a)   On-the-job-training will be carried out on a one on one basis by having the
PSU staff understudy the corresponding PA expert. Initially and for a period
estimated to last one year, the PA exerts will perform all the functions with
the assistance of the local understudy but, over time (expected to occur after
the first year), as each PSU staff is trained, the PA expert will relinquish the
function and assume first the role of supervisor over the PSU staff and later,
of an adviser.
(b)   The number, content, frequency and approximate timing of the Pro*ect
Administration Seminars should be proposed by the PA but these should, as
a minimum, cover the following areas:
-    international and national procurement
-   contract administration and monitoring
-   planning and budgeting
-   receiving, storing and delivering
-   financial control of project
-   processing disbursement requests
-   processing claims
-   managing project accounts
-   managing statements of expenses
IV. PA STAFFING, DOLHM/GOL PROVISION AND TD!ETABLE
1.    In their proposal, bidders would propose a staffing plan for the PA acceptable to IDA
and GOL to address the TOR. However, the following is a guide of what is required:



- 70 -
Annex 7
Page 8
,a)   Project Administrator(s)  or Project Engineer(s)  Typically a holder of a
professional degree in engineering or business administration, preferably at
graduate level or equivalent experience, with at least 10 years experience in
the management of projects which are financed by multilateral development
institutions and a working knowledge on the project management techniques
including PERT/CPM, scheduling, materials management, cost control,
contract negotiation, contract administration and crash programs.
(b)   Procurement Specialist(s) Typically a holder of a professional degree in
engineering, law or business administration, preferably at graduate level or
equivalent experience, with at least 7 years experience in international
procurement practices including contract administration and a working
knowledge of the World Bank s Procurement Guidelines, Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants of the World Bank and its Standard Bidding Documents.
(c)    Disbursement and Financial Controller(s)   Typically a professional in
accounting or business administration, preferably at graduate level, with at
least 5 years experience in the financial control of investment projects
financed by a multilateral development bank.
(d)   Expediter(s) and other specialized support staff.
2.    Provision bv DOLHM  and GOL. It is understood  that DOLHM  will provide
adequate office accommodations, including direct telephone and fax connections and GOL
will facilitate entry and exit visas for the experts and their dependents.
3.    The project timetable is estimated  to last seven years from April 1996, which
corresponds to the expected "effectivity date" and the PA consultancy is envisaged to take
place during the first two years with a possible extension.
V. PAY'MENTS
1.    Where payment is concerned, the PA's service will be divided into the following six
categories which may be . subject to payments on an output (performance) basis or on an
input (time, travel and expenses) basis.



- 71 -
Annex 7
Page 9
Basis for Payments    l
Function or Category              | (output/input)         Parameter
number and/or value
Procurement                        output                  of procurement
processes
Contract administration, project
monitoring and delivery/receipt of                         10% Advance
goods, works and services;
including payments to suppliers,                           80% in accordance
contractors and consultants                                with a pre-arranged
monthly payments
schedule bases mainly
on the PA's plan of
input                   activities and
corresponding human
resource assignation
and travel schedule
10% Retention to be
paid upon acceptance
of Final Report
Handling of Project Accounts (SA)
and Statements of Expenses
(SOEs), payments to suppliers and
contractors and Withdrawal from
the IDA credit
On-the-job training of PSU staff
Reports and other matters
number and quoted
Seminars to PSU staff              output                  price of each seminar



- 72 -
Annex 7
Page 10
2.    The consultancy contract with the PA will itemize the price of the services on the
basis of the above categories and establish the parameters to be used.
(a)    Procurement services should be based on an agreed procurement plan and
payment scales which will relate to completed procurement processes. The
attached list (Annex 1) which shows the major procurement packages will
serve as a guide for the elaboration of the PA's procurement plan.
(b)   The seminar should be priced on a lump sum or per seminar basis and paid
accordingly as each one is delivered.
(c)    All other items should be expressed on the basis of hornoraria and rates, travel
and related costs including overhead. The offer should show a total price
estimate based on the PA's preliminary plan of activities and corresponding
human resource assignation schedule, with a minor adjustable component
expressed in rates for consultant-days or consultant-weeks, to cover slippages
and delays in the implementation of the project.
(d)   Payments on all the above shall be made with a 10 percent advance, progress
billings and a 10% retention, as shown in the above table. The amortization
of the advance will start after 20% of the contract is paid and will be
completed when 80% of the contract value has been paid.
VI. REPORTS
1.    Initial Report and Plan of Activities. Not less than one month after initiating the
work, the PA will submit for consideration of the Project Director, through the PSU, an
initial report which will contain a draft plan of activities showing how it proposes to carry
out the objectives of the three year consultancy. Since the training of the PSU staff is of
particular interest, the plan of activities will show achievement targets of the technology
transfer to the PSU staff over the three year period which, to the extent possible, will be
expressed in measurable quantities.
2.    Periodic Reports. Every six months, i.e., to the extent possible, one month prior to
each IDA Supervision Mission, the PA will send to the Project Director a progress report
showing the overall progress and status the project, detailed by procurement package;
contract for works, goods or consultancy; financial position and disbursements by source of
fund and by contract; and the training of the PSU staff including the targets achieved and
to be achieved.



_ 73 -
A-nnex 7
Page 11
3.    Final Report. One month prior to the termination of the contract period, the PA will
submit a final report showing the same information required in the periodic reports as well
as whatsoever recommendations it may deem appropriate to make for the remainder of the
project period and for the sustainability of the work in DOLHM.
V. EVALUATION OF OFFERS
1.    The evaluation of offers will take into account the bases for the payments which are
shown in IV. 1 above. Technical aspects of each offer, covering the consulting furm's general
experience in the field of project management for similar projects, work methods and work
plan for each of the six functions shown in IV. 1 above, qualifications and competence of the
personnel proposed, will be the dominant factors for consideration.
2.    Price will be a minor consideration, although its significance will depend on the
complexity and measurability of the outputs of each category. For the procurement and
formal training aspects, price will have a relative weight of 40% whereas for the others, only
10%. The relative weighting is summarized below:



- 74 -
Annex 7
Page 12
Overall        Evaluation, %         Max. Points
Weight, Points
Tech.     Pnce       Tech.      Price
PROCUREMENT                  30          60%        40%        18.0      12.0
Contract
Administration;
project monitoring and
delivery/receipt of
goods, works and
services; certifications,
measurements and
pavments to suppliers,
contractors and
consultants; handling
of project accounts          55          90%        10%        49.5       5.5
and statements of
expenses; withdrawals
from IDA credits; on-
the job training for
PSU staff; and reports
SEMINARS                     15          60%        40%         9.0       6.0
TOTAL POINTS                 100           -          -        76.5      23.5



7                                     Annex 8
Page 1
LAO PDR
LAND TITLING PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE OF STUDIES
I. STUDY ON LAND ADMINISTRATION FEES AND COST RECOVERY
1.    Background. In the context of the proposed Land Titling Project, the
Government would develop a land administration and valuation system capable of
providing clear and enforceable land use rights which are the basis for developing efficient
land markets. This will require the re-examination of fees currently charged for land
registration and land transactions with regard to their impact on affordability, incentives,
and cost recovery.
2.    Objective of the Study. The objective of the study is to analyze all fees, taxes
and charges related to land administration and to recommend changes to the fee structure
to ensure the affordability of land transactions, strong incentives to use formal rather than
informal procedures, and the recovery of land administration costs.
3.    Tasks. In preparation of the study, the following tasks would be undertaken.
A. Review and Analysis
(a)   Document and analyze fees, taxes, charges, and any other financial
obligation related to land registration and land transactions (short 'land
fees'), including a description of the historic development of fee structures
and revenue levels.
(b)   Analyze the affordability of land registration and transactions, including a
comparison of land fees with income levels and land values.
(c)   Analyze the incentive impact of the level of land fees on the decision to
use informal rather than formal land registration and transaction
procedures, including a comparison costs and the possible risks of informal
and formal transactions in rural and urban areas as well as an analysis of the
impact of outstanding tax payments on the willingness to formally register
land.
(d)   Analyze the recovery of land administration costs through land fees,
including an analysis of past and present levels of expenditures and
revenues and of collection rates. Examine the impact of inadequate land
valuation methods on revenues.



- 76 -                                Annex 8
Page 2
(e)   Project and analyze the impact of land fees on the future development of
land markets, including acceleration of land titling, improvement of land
administration, changing values of land, and flow of investments in land
urban and rural land development.
B. Options and Recommendations
(a)     Formulate short term options (implementable in less than one year) for
adjusting land fees to facilitate the process of accelerated land titling.
Formulate medium term options for the adjustment of the land fee
stracture by taking into account the need for: (i) affordable fee levels to
make land registration and transactions accessible to all income groups;
(ii) attractive fee levels which do not deter from using formal land
transaction procedures and which encourage land registration under both
the systematic and sporadic land titling programs; (iii) recover all or part
of the land administration costs from fee revenues. Propose options for
simplification of the fee structure and their potential impact on reducing
administrative costs and increasing collection rates.
Implementation of the Study. DOLHM would be the responsible
Government agency to supervise the preparation of the study. DOLHM
would also ensure that there is close cooperation and exchange of
information between the consultants for this study and the adviser on
land valuation. Recommend a best set of options and propose an action
plan including a timeframe, a responsible division, and how these
measures would be guided and promoted for passage in govermnent.
(b)     The approximate duration of the study is 3 months.
II. STUDY ON COMMuNITY LAND TENURE
4.    The objective of this study is to develop options to formally register community
land use rights and where appropriate, associated individual land use rights; and this
should be done such that land rights holders do not lose by this modem government
process. This would then allow the Lao Land Titling Project or a future project to
support such arrangements if found necessary.
5.    The study would be undertaken by a consultant company (ideally a joint venture
between an international and national company) research institute, or university. The team
of professionals would be skilled in land tenure studies, land law, land economics, and
sociology. International and national consultants would be ne:essary. A small but
selected sample survey in areas of known occurrence of community tenure would be
included in the study.



- 77 -
Annex 8
Page 3
6.    The team would:
(a)   Review appropriate literature and interview knowledgeable professionals in
this topic, and analyze:
(i)   the characteristics of the tenure used in villages for both individual
holdings and commurity holdings, in both rural and urban areas;
(ii)  the types of village tenure used in non-forest areas, and from this
map out the rough geographic locations where the various types are
used;
(iii)  review the administrative players and arrangements for the tenures
and the processes of sale, exchange, inheritance, lease, and
mortgage equivalent; and
(iv)  include a review of the community land study undertaken in the
context of the Laos PDR Forest Management and Conservation
Project looking for potential linkages; and review the gender and
cultural study funded by AusAID in 1996;
7.    In undertaking the above, analyze the gender, ethnic, and traditional dimensions of
community tenure.
8.    Assess the applicability of current laws, regulations, and procedures, and their
application to community lands and any constraints they imposed on the registration of
those lands; Also review applicable traditional land laws and conflicts with modern law.
9.    Assess the present demand or otherwise by land holders and by village heads for
formal land registration under various scenarios (e.g., new investment, expropriation) by
conducting representative surveys of selected representative village land holders and
village leaders including women and NGO's;
10.   Develop formal registration options or models that fit the requirements which
might include individual land use right holdings coupled with rights to other property held
in common with other villagers or the whole village, including exploring the applicability
of the condominium models and leasehold models among others; and explain the preferred
option in terms of legal requirements, simplicity, and operational costs, and training
demands for villagers and officials.
11.   Develop for various circumstances, administrative options for the formal
registration of lands including those controlled by provincial and district governments with
little or no village participation, to those conducted still by the community but with
provincial and district oversight; and recommend preferred options.



- 78 -
Annex 8
Page 4
12.   Develop various implementation options (if appropriate) that would allow village
community lands to be titled, if necessary under a future land titling project, and outline a
time based action plan for implementation.
Implementation
The study will be guided by a lead group of agencies including DOLHM, MAF, MOJ, and
the Lao Women's Union. They will be kept informed of progress and through regular
meetings seeking their guidance.
Im. FOREST BOUNDARIES DEFINITION STUDY
Background
Objective and Scope of Study
13.   The aim of this study is to investigate and recommend efficient procedures for:
(a)   delineating and demarcating of forest boundaries in project areas; and
(b)   registering land parcels adjacent to forests, to eligible holders.
14.   Options to Delineate and Demarcate Forest Boundaries. To do this, the study
team would undertake the following tasks:
(c)   working with DOLHM, and the MvIinistry of Agriculture and Forestry
(MAF) and building on the study undertaken under the Forest Management
and Conservation Project, investigate the existing laws and regulations, and
associated procedures for delimitation and demarcation of forest
boundaries;
(d)   in conjunction with DOLIHM, and MAF, identify policy, institutional, and
administrative issues that apply when forest boundaries are defined in the
field; indicating the role of each level of government, each agency; and the
people; identify by inquiry the constraints and the impact on land holders
adjacent to forests;
(e)   if necessary, design pilot projects, to be implemented by DOLHM  and
MAF, to further investigate the most favored options; and
(f)   prepare a detailed report setting out options, preferred options and
procedures which could enable the demarcation of forest boundaries.
15.   Rezistration of Land Adjacent to Forest Boundaries. Once the forest boundaries
are defined, it more likely to be able to grant titles to eligible land holders adjacent to the
forest. However, the study should:



- 79 -
Annex 8
Page 5
(g)   recommend options and procedures to guide granting full titles for eligible
land rights holders adjacent to forest land in a manner acceptable to all
parties, and with due regard to the environment (e.g., some restrictions
may be necessary, such as not granting title for land on slope exceeding 30
degrees);
(h)   with DOLHM, and MAF, investigate the Government policy towards those
who have encroached on forest lands, and propose options to improve the
situation in order to minimize the encroachment in the future; and
(i)   study the implications of forest occupation on land management policy in
the framework of any proposed new procedures.
Time Frame and Budget
16.   The study would be initiated no later than September 30, 1997, and completed by
the end of March 1998.
Skill Requirements
17.   The team required to undertake the study should be a mix of international and
national experts. International experts should have previous experience in Lao PDR. The
following skills maybe appropriate to undertake the study: forestry specialist, land tenure
specialist, survey and mapping specialist, and a Sociologist/Anthropologist.
IV. STUDY ON THE EFFICIENCY AND LAND RIGHTS ISSUES ON NATIONALIZED LANDS
Objective of the Study
18.   The objective of the study is to develop options for consideration by GOL PDR
and others to allow the people and GOL PDR to make more efficient and equitable use of
the land nationalized after the change in government in 1975. At present many lands are
held by third parties neither the former land holder nor the GOL PDR with varying
degrees of insecurity, resulting in under utilization of the land and a loss of production.
GOL PDR is interested in the generation of various options.
19.   A multi-discipline team of international and national specialists should undertake
the study including a land economist, a tenure expert, a land developer/entrepreneur/
urban planner, and a land law specialist.



- 80 -Anex 8
Page 6
20.   Working with DSA and PSC, the team would:
(a)   provide the background to the situation in terms of history, past and
present polices, and trends, by a review of the literature and the conduct of
interviews with a broad range of informed people;
(b)   analyze the extent of the nationalization of these lands by undertaking
guided sample survey using questionnaires and interviews to allow an
analysis to categorize (undertaking surveys as necessary), the types of
situation land holdings, the types of land involved, the types of land
holdings and land holders involved, current land use, the timeframe of the
present situation involved; and the particular circumstance in major cities;
develop a classification system to assist in the analysis; isolate the key
issues that are acting as barriers to the productive use of these lands;
(c)    develop options to allow the various situations to be addressed. Options
may include: retention; renting; simple privatization; bidding potentially
valuable sites to the private sector requesting financial and technical
proposals for development of the site and bids to lease the land under GOL
defined conditions; development; etc.,
(d)   hold a workshop to review the draft report and present the most viable and
acceptable options. Derive an action plan and the next steps; and
(e)    prepare a final report presenting all the above information, preferred
options, and an action plan for implementation.
V. SOCIO-ECONOMIC INTACT STUDY
Objective of the Study
21.   The objective of the study would be to measure the project's social, economic,
fiscal and selected environmental impacts on the land holders in the areas the subject of the
project, and on the actual land. By so doing, the results of the study would confirm or
otherwise the benefits and impacts of land titling in Lao PDR circumstances and help
provide justification in the future for any continuation of the land titling program.
Background
22.   The study would build on the methodologies developed under the Thailand Land
Titling Project and that to be used in the Indonesian Land Administration project. The
Thai studies, however, relate to rural areas and agricultural circumstances; also such
studies and their results are often country specific. Therefore, as the Lao Land Titling



- 81 -
Annex 8
Page 7
Project is mostly aimed at urban and peri-urban lands and the recent history of Laos, this
study is considered essential.
MIethod and Implementation
23.   The baseline and follow-up study method would be used in at least two project
provinces, with two other provinces not in the project surveyed as control areas. The
baseline study would be undertaken in the second year of the project to provide a base
asainst which the project impacts would be assessed. The follow-up survey to measure
the impacts, would be undertaken in the last vear of the project or in 2002, which ever is
later. The study would be undertaken bv a consultant company, a research institute, or
university, ideally a joint venture of international and national professionals. The
disciplines of the team members should include economics, sociology/ anthropology,
financial analysis, and environmental science. The study would be guided by an inter-
ministerial team (a lead group) appointed by the Project Steering Committee, and with
the advice of the technical assistance team as appropriate.
24.   The terms of reference would be finalized by DOLHM with the support of the
technical assistance (TA) team under the guidance of the team leader of the TA.
Indicators Suggested for the Study
25.   The study team would isolate and derive applicable indicators of socio-economic
change attributable in part or wholly to land titling, and these over time would be assessed.
These include: land value changes to parcels; credit usage patterns and changes; input
use; improvements in productivity especiallv in the construction sector; investment trends
attributable to the project - e.g., more housing and environmental infrastructure
investment in urban areas, any urban to rural investment change; income impacts on land
holders and expenditures; investments in phvsical infrastructure attributable to the project
at the city, suburb and household levels, and any indicators of associated health
improvements; social impacts such as land dispute trends and rates; inheritance tradition
changes (very difficult to detect in the timeframe of the study); gender consequences;
ethnic consequences; and the overall social well being of land holders.
The Tasks
26.   The study team would undertake the following tasks: a baseline study including a
baseline report (including a consultative workshop); the follow-up study together with a
draft final report, followed by a seminar to present the results to interested parties;
evolution of an action plan in consultation with GOL; and the final report.
27.   The baseline study steps and tasks would include: formation of a lead group for
guidance and review purposes; design refinement; review of existing related international
socio-economic studies and isolation of possible project impacts; selection of
representative areas that may produce these impacts; formulation of questionnaires;
consultative workshop; training of the interviewers; testing of the questionnaire;
consultation of local government and village heads in the survey areas; conduct of the
survey; analysis of results; consultation with lead group of preliminary conclusions, and



- 82 -
Annex 8
Page 8
baseline final report. A minimum of two areas would be surveyed, two to be titled in PY2
or PY3, with follow-up surveys not before the Year 2002.
28.   The follow-up study, would be conducted in the same areas as the baseline ideally
covering the same parcels and houses, managed by the same team of professionals and
undertaken by the same contractors. The steps would include: reformation of the lead
group; a preliminary survey of the original areas surveyed in the baseline study to ensure
expectations of titling and non-titling; review of the questionnaire; training of
interviewers; follow-up survey; analysis; reality check with knowledgeable people; draft
final report; in consultation with GOL the development of an action plan to achieve
changes arising from the study; a well publicized seminar to discuss findings, and the final
report. The report should be published and made available internationally to allow other
nations to benefit from this work.
29.   The study team would include in their reports an assessment of their findings for
land and social policy, government revenues, and the further implementation of the land
titling program.
Ich
M:\LkOS\APPRAISA\LAOANN8.DOC
Febmary 53 1996



Annex-9
-83 -                                          Page I
LAO PDR
LAND TITLING PROJECT
MAJOR PROCUREMENT PACKAGES
Procurement    Procurement    Cost
Description                    Location           Method         Proj. Yr      Us
(000)
Renovarion/Extension; 2          VTE             ICB with
N'GD Bldgs & Cons-                &           Prequalification     PY1         450
truction 2 New Bldgs          VTE Prov.
Construction of 2 New          Luang/Pr
Buildings (2 bids @ $137k)        &                NCB             PY2         273
Savannak.
Renovation of existing        Champassak
offices in MOF Bldg.                               NCB             PY2         137
Vehicles (20) and
Motorcycles (15) for NGD,     VTE/Prov.            ICB             PY1         1,170
Svstem. Adjud. &
Provincial Offices
Photogrametric Equipment         VTE               ICB             PY1
for NO'D                                                                       1,600
GPS Receivers (4)                VTE               ICB             PYl
Boundary Markers, Minor                                             PY
Equipment and Furnirtre       VTE/Prov.            NCB              1-5        570
Materials for Mapping and        All               Int'l.           PY          130
Land Titlin2                                     Shopping           1-5
Local Shopping
Minor Contracts, Office                    -- UN Proc. Svcs.        PY
Supplies, other Goods            All         & other methods        1-5        180
Aerial Photography            VTE/Prov.            ICB             PY2         920
(2 separate bids)               Prov.                              PY4
Studies (5 contracts)         VTE/Prov.            ICB            PY1-5        550
Computerized Land
Reeistration Management          VTE               ICB             PY3         400
System



- 84 -
Annex 9
Page 2
BAR GRAPH OF PROCUREMENT STAGES                                  Annex 2
Procurement Packages                 PY    |PY2          PY3      PY4       PY5
Contract arch/engineer              bb
TA (AUSAID financed)                xxxxxx   xxx.xxx   xxxxxx   xxxxxx   xxxxxx
Contract Project Administrator      bbbxxx   xXxxxx    xxxxxx   xxx
Renovation/Extension, 2 NGD Bldgs    pp
& Cons-truction 2 New Bldgs          dd b    bbxxxx
Photogrametric equipment for NGD      dd     bbbss
GPS Receivers                         dd    bbbs
Vehicles & Motorcvcles                bbb    s                           _     _
Studies                                      ddbbxx   xxxxxx   xxxxxx   xxxxxx
Minor Equipment, Furniture, etc. and         bbss
Materials for Mapping etc.                             bbss
bbss
_________          _________  ~~bbss
Aerial Photography                     d     dbbbxx                  x   x
Technical Audits for Contract Land
Titling (financed bv AUSAID)        ddbbx    xxxxXx   XXXxXX   XXXXXX   xxxxxx
Public Land Titling                  dddx    xxxxxx   xxxxxx   XXXXXX  xxxxxIx
(by Force Account)_________
New Bldg in L/Prabang                        dddbbb   xxxxxx
New Bldg in Savannakh.                       dddbbb   xxxxxx
Bldg renovation Champ.                       dddbbb   xxxxxx
Computerized Land Registration
Management System                  _dddbbb   xxxxxx
egend:
d = design and prepare specifications
p = prequalification
b = bidding
x = implementation
s = supply (manufacture, transport and deliver)



* - 85 -
Annex 10
Page I
LAO PDR
LAND TrrLING PROJECT
BANK SUPERVISION PLAN
Approx            Duration                    Skdlis                                       Activities - Major Focus
Date             (weeks)
1.   2/96               2.5             Task manager: land                 Credit effectveness: TA bnefing; results of opeational tnal:
registration; procurement:        management and smffing of PSU: procurement of PA. mapping equip..
Implemenmtion                     two land policy studies. civil works design process. MOU berween NGD
and DOLHM: TOR finlization for systematic rgistration. Request
l_____________                       ____________________________          formacion of PSC.
2.   9196               2.5             Task manager; valuatdon:           Procurement of civil works, equipment. vehicles, contract systematic
legal: land registration          regisration. and two studies: rview up-dated project implementanon
mapping; procurement/             plan: staffing plan for public sector roles; draft work plan and budget
engineer                          legal review: valuation review: technical reviews especially technical
cooperation berween units. and the mapping program for at leat rwo
years: TOR review of systematic registration.
3.   2197               2.5             Task manager: land                 Land legislation progress review: procuremnenc of aerial phowgraphy.
registration: legal:              civil works, one study. systematic TORs and procuremenc review
Management                        project management. esmblishment of IsE PPFU and POC: HRD
l___________________________          strategy. and training plan: training program for project managers:
4.   9/97               2.5             Task manager: valuation:           Review systematic regstration public sector resuts: valuaion review;
legal: land registration;         work plan and budget review: sporadic adjudication acrion plan review;
accounmnt/financial analyst       review results of Ist land policy study: review financial and
disbursements sysems.
5.   2/98                2              Task manager; land policy;         Land policy review: draft work plan and budget review: review TOR of
mapping; land registratio         computerized land registration: review land policy study results and
nformation systems (IS).          action plans: review results of aerial photognphy and revision of
mapping plan for the coming two years.
6.   9/98               2               Task manager. valuation;          Field visit to Luang Phabang, Viennane province: valuation review;
cadasrral survey; and            review orf mapping program: all technology and methodology review;
mapping; financial analyst; IS   review of computenzed land registration system and related IS strategy;
fimancial and disbursement systems review: review of land registnraion
transarcion systems improvements.
7.   2199                2              Task manager registration:         Review of provincial implementation with field visits to SavannakheL
institurional and HRD; land       Champassak and Vienriane provinces for systemanc registraion:
policy; economist.                procurement of aerial photogrphy: review of technical audit progress
along with overall project reporting; annual work plan and budget
reviews; HRD progress: instiruional development review  review eivil
works: review studies.
8.   9/99               2.5             Task manager land                  Mid term review: including review of up-dated project implemerntion
registracion/                     plan: review of mangement esp., PA and PSU: systematic registration
surveyor/mapping; HRD:            especially public sector staff mobilization; valuation review and TA
legal: economist/financial:       review. Procurement of land registrtion computerizanon consultan
valuation                         team: CRS review: gender issues.



- 86 -
Annex 10
Page 2
9.  21'2000              2             Task manager: land policy;         Review of systematic and sporadic registration progress especially
mapping; land registration        provincial implemenmrion with field visits to Savannakhel and
Champassak provinces in Vientintne possible stan of pparation of a
follow on project: annual work plan and budget reviews: institutional
development review.
10. 9/2000              2.5            Task manager, land                Systemaric registration field review incl. study visit t Luang Phabang
regisration: survey/mapping;      and Vieniane provinces, valuation review; HR   nd r aining program
valuation: financial             review: TA review; financial and disbursement review.
analysis/economist land
policy.                                                                                               l
11. 2!2001               2             Task manager: land                 Annual work plan and budget rviews, rview of land rgistration
registration; financial          transaction systems; if no follow-up project then review action plans for
analyst/economist                 all project agencies
12. 9/2001              2              Task manager. valuation, land    Project completion date. Land registration review including sporadic:
registration: land policy        valuation progress; IS strgegy revision review; land policy review.
13. 2'!2002             2              Task manager; economist and      Land records and office management: capcity review.
land registration                                                                                     l
14. 91:002              2              Task manager land                Land registraion review; review of land policies.
registration: land policy
15. 2.1'003             2.5            Task manager land                Land registration and valuation review: inirial drafting of ICR.
registration: land valuation
16. 9/2003               2             Task manager. land                 Preparaion of ICR.
registration: and economist
The Ca-dit ciosi is Sqx 30. M002.
File o: landlaos\sup.wpf



- .87 _
Annex I I
Page I
LAO PDR
LAND TITLING PROJECT
DRAFT ORGANIZATION PLAN AND FUNCTIOLNAL DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT STEERING
COMMITTEE (PSC), THE PROVINCIAL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE (POC), THE PROJECT SUPPORT
UNIT (PS U), THE PROJECT ADMINISTRATOR (PA) AND THE PROVINCIAL PROJECT
FACILITATION UNIT (PPFU)
This annex describes the proposed functions, organization, and staffing of the-key
institutions involved in the project management, i.e. the PSC, POC, PSU, PA and PPFU.
A. PROJECT STEERING COMNIITTEE
Purpose. The proposed Land Titling Project is a project of the Government of Lao PDR
and forms part of a broader Government program to develop a market economy and to
foster the development of efficient land markets by providing a system of clear and
enforceable land use rights. The project needs to be closely linked and integrated into the
broader Government program and at the same time provide assistance to the policy makers
on land related issues. The inter-agency Project Steering Committee hence serves as an
instrument for the overall Government supervision of the project and for coordination of
Government policies affecting the implementation of the project.
Functions. The PSC will have the following functions:
(a)    Provide guidance to the Project Director for the overall direction of the project
and on policy decisions of the Government.
(b)    Review and approve the annual workplan, the annual budget and the progress
reports for the project.
(c)    Act as a liaison to the Land-Remanagement Committee and recommend to that
Committee changes in policies and regulations which affect the implementation
of the project.
(d)    Coordinate between Government agencies, including provincial governments,
to ensure adequate support for a smooth implementation of the project.
(e)    Use DOLHivl, and in particular its Project Support and Technical Assistance
Unit as Secretariat, to develop policy recommendations on critical issues of
land management.
Membership. The PSC will have the following members:
(a)    Vice Minister of Finance, Chairman;



- 88 -
Annex 11
Page 2
(b)    Chief of Cabinets of the following M'vinistries: Ministry of Finance (MOF),
Ministry of Justice (MOJ), Ministry of Communication, Transport, Posts and
Construction (Mv[CTPC) and MvIinistry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF);
(c)    a representative of the Prime Minister's Office (PMO);
(d)   the Vice Mayor of the Prefecture of Vientiane, and the Vice-Governors for
Development of the provinces covered under the Project; and
(e)   the Project Director.
Mvode of Operation. The PSC will meet at least twice a year to review the semi-annual
progress reports and to approve draft budgets and workplans. The Chairman may request
non-members to attend the meeting if so required. The Project Director with the help of the
Project Support Unit and the Technical Assistance Unit will prepare the meetings.
B. PROVINCIAL OVERSIGHT COL'YV;IITTEE
Purpose. iMvany of the project activities will take place in the provinces and need to be
closely coordinated with the provincial and local governments and their aaencies and
organizations representing relevant interest groups in the province. The main purpose of the
Provincial Oversight Committee is hence to ensure such cooperation and to oversee project
activities in the respective province.
Funlctions. The POC would have the following functions:
(a)    Review and approve the annual provincial workplan, the annual budget and the
provincial progress reports; these documents will subsequently be submitted to
the Project .M4anager for project-wide consolidation and final approval by the
Project Steering Committee.
(b)    Coordinate between provincial government agencies to ensure adequate
support for a smooth implementation of the project.
(c)    Report through the Vice-Governor to the Project Steering Committee any
major issue which could substantially affect the successful implementation of
the project.
(d)    Use the Provincial Project Facilitation Unit under the Chief, Office of Land and
Housing Management, as Secretariat to support the activities of the POC and
to follow up on decisions of the POC.
Membership. The POC will have the following members:
(a)    Vice Governor (for Development), Chairman



- 89 -
Annex I I
Page 3
(b)   the Heads of the following Provincial Services: Finance, Agriculture and
Forestry; Communication, Transport, Construction and Posts;
(c)    a representative of the provincial Lao Women Union;
(d)   the Provincial Project Facilitator/Chiet; Office of Land and House Management
Mlode of Operation. The POC will meet at least twice a year to review the semi-annual
progress reports and to approve draft budgets and workplans. The Chairman may request
non-members to attend the meeting if so required. The Head of Provincial Finance
Services, with the help of Provincial Project Facilitation Unit and the Provincial Technical
Adviser will prepare the meetings.
C. PROJECT SUPPORT UNIT
Rationale. The implementation of the proposed Lao PDR Land Titling Project poses a
significant challenge for the Government, and in particular DOLHNI which has no previous
experience with the management of foreian funded development projects. Substantial
external support will be provided through Technical Assistance and a contracted Project
Administrator. The purpose -of the PSU, which is to be located in DOLHM and to be
staffed with national staff, is hence to strengthen the implementation capacity within
DOLHNI, initially by absorbing skills and know how transferred from the PA, eventually by
assuming full responsibility for the management of the project.
Fulnictionis. The PSU will have the followin, functions:
(a)    Project Administration, including the preparation and implementation of
operational plans and budgets, liaison and coordination of activities with other
agencies, particularly with provincial authorities, the provincial project
facilitation offices, and NGD.
(b)    Secretariat to the Project Steering Committee and to the Project Director,
including the preparation of the annual workplans and budgets, semi-annual
progress reports, and ad-hoc information which the PSC may require.
(c)    Planning, monitoring, and evaluation of project activities, including the
preparation of annual workplan and budgets for submission to the PSC,
incorporating plans submitted by the provinces; the monitoring of
implementation of approved plans and performance indicators and preparation
of semi-annual progress reports and other reports which may be required by
the GOL, IDA, and AusAID; and the evaluation of project implementation and
preparation of recommendations for possible remedial action.
(d)    Financial control of project accounts, including the preparation of
disbursement plan, management of project accounts and the Special Account,
submission of applications of withdrawal and replenishment from IDA,
verification of payments for project expenditures, and documentation of



- 90 -
Annex I I
Page 4
statement of expenditures; also including the financial management of GOL
counterpart funds.
(e)    Procurement of goods, services, and works, including an estimated US$5
under non-lCB procedures; procurement of an estimated US$16 million under
IDA international competitive bidding procedures (ICB) will be the primary
responsibility of the Project Administrator.
(f)    Administration of human resources, including the payroll for project funded
staff, management of the human resource development plan for the
recruitment, re-allocation and training of project staff. In addition,
administration of other project activities (e.g., studies, legal component) and
project facilities (e.g., vehicles, equipment).
Organizational Structure. The PSU will be headed by a Project Manager. The Project
Nlanager reports to the Project Director, who, ex-office, is the Director of the DOLHilM.
The PSU will have four functional areas: (a) Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, (b)
Accounting and Financial Controls, (c) Procurement, and (d) Administration. The
PSU will be located in DOLHIM to ensure an adequate integration of project activities into
DOLHLM's regular activities and to facilitate the transfer of skills from the PSU to DOLHMfv.
Staffing Plan. In addition to a Project Director (part-time), the PSU would be staffed with
one Project %Manager, 8 local professionals, including 2 in each functional area, and 5
support staff, including I clerk/typist per finctional area and I driver. The rationale for
hiring 2 local professionals in each functional area lies in the need to facilitate an effective
transfer of know how from the Project Administrator to the PSU, the need to provide
adequate back-up while local professional are tied up in training or field work and the risk of
losingz acquired skills for the PSU as a result of rotation. The Project NManager, a first group
of 4 professionals (one per functional area) and support staff would be hired in the first year.
As second batch of 4 professionals would be hired in the second year. A selected group of
professionals will obtain training during the pre-implementation pilot program.
Description of Key Personnel. The PSU staff positions would have the following
finctions:
(a)    Project Director. The position of the Project Director will be ex-officio filled
by the Director of DOLHM. Hence the position of the Project Director will be
part-time only. The Project Director has overall responsibility for ensuring that
the project achieves its stated objectives. The Director would provide overall
direction for the project, manage the coordination with the Project Steering
Committee, senior GOL officials, IDA and AusAID. When necessary, the
Project Director could seek advice directly from the Team leader for the
Technical Assistance team or from the Project Administrator.
(b)    Project Manager. The Project Manager is a full-time position, reports to the
Project Director and is directly responsible for project management and day-to-
day operations. Responsibilities include the submission of work plans, budgets



- 91 -
Annex I I
Page 5
and progress reports through the Project Director to the PSC and the funding
agencies and management of the PSU staff. The Project Manager would act
on behalf of the Project Director in project matters during the absence of the
Director for training or field visits. The Team leader of the Technical
Assistance will closely coordinate with the Project Manager all TA activities
and provide assistance as required by the Project Mlanager. The Project
Manger will rely on the Project Administrator for management support and
training during the first project years.
(c)    Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation Officer; the Accounting and
Financial Control Officer; the Procurement Officer; and the
Administrative Officer are full time positions with responsibility for the
functions described above (para. 3).
Transfer of Know How Arrangements. There are three arrangements for transferring
managerial skills and know how to the PSU:
(a)   the AusAID funded pre-implementation Pilot Project includes a training
component to prepare managerial staff for the PSU;
(b)   the IDA funded Project Administrator will have responsibility for setting up
project management systems and transferring the necessary management skills
to the PSU staff. It will use on-the-job trainingT complemented with
workshops, seminars and short-term training courses;
(c)   the AusAID funded TA team will provide through national counterparts and
international experts training and skills in technical areas and management of
Human Resource Development.
Phasing In of Staff. The following table describes the number of staff by project year.
Table: Number of Staff for the PSU by Project Year
No. Staff                 PYI  PY2         PY3    PY4   PY5
Incremental staff:
- professionals           5      9         9       9      9
- support staff           2      4         4       4      4
Total                     7       13       13      13    13



- 92 -
Annex I I
Page 6
D. PROJECT ADMINISTRATOR
Rationale. As mentioned above, the management of the proposed Lao PDR Land Titling
Project poses a significant challenge to DOLHLM which has no previous experience with
complex project administration. To complement DOLHMI's capacity, a Project Support
Unit will be set up in DOLH?M and will be staffed with national staff (see above).
However, the PSU in itself will need to develop management skills and set up management
systems. In the interest of a well organized project start and effective transfer of relevant
management capacity to the PSU, it is planned that the Project will contract a consulting firm
to act as Project Administrator (PA).
Functions. Overall, the function of the PA will be to set up management systems for the
PSU, initially handle project administration functions in selected areas on behalf of the
Project Director and Project Manager, actively transfer the relevant skills and technologies
to PSU staff, in such a manner that, subsequently, PSU can assume full responsibility for
project administration. Specifically, the PA would have the following functions:
(a)    Procurement. Carry out with full responsibility procurement functions on
behalf of the Project Manager, including (i) processing of procurement
following ICB and non-ICB procedures; (ii) contract administration, in close
collaboration with the consultant for technical supervision of contracts; and
(iii) training of PSU staff in the procurement procedures;
(b)    Project Accounting and Financial Controls.. Establish financial and
account manac,ement systems which conform to the needs of the Project, the
guidelines of IDA, and the regulations of the GOL; initially, operate the system
with full responsibility, while training PSU staff; subsequently, supervise PSU
staff operating the system, and eventuallv assume the role of an adviser
(c)    Project Administrationi, Including Planning, Moniitoring, and Reporting.
Establish project management, monitoring and reporting svstems which
respond to the needs of the Project; initially, operate -he system With full
responsibility, while training PSU staff; subsequently, supervise PSU staff
operating the system, and eventually assume the role of an adviser.
(d)    Capacity Building and Training of PSU. Transfer skills, technologies, and
managTement systems in all areas where PSU carries management
responsibilities; undertake this capacity building through on-the-job training,
formal training, and seminars.
Organization. The PA would report to the Project. The PA would closely coordinate its
activities with the Project Manager and the concerned PSU staff to ensure a maximum on-
the-job learning effect. The PA would maintain a permanent representation in the PSU
office, while the overall level of staffing may varv according to demand. The PA will also
cooperate with the Technical Assistance team which may provide technical advise in its



- 93 -
Annex I I
Page 7
areas of expertise. The PA will initially be hired for 2 years with the possibility for
extension.
Staffing. In their proposals, bidders would propose a staffing plan for the PA acceptable to
IDA and the GOL. However, the following staffing plan provides a guide of what may be
required:
(a)    Project Administrator(s) or Project Engineer(s). Typically a holder of a
professional degree in engineering or business administration, preferably at
graduate level or equivalent experience, with at least 10 years experience in the
management of projects which are financed by multilateral development
institutions and a working knowledge on the project management techniques
including PERT/CPA, scheduling, materials management, cost control, quality
assurance and Total Quality Management, contract negotiation, contract
administration and crash programs.
(b)    Procurement Specialist(s). Typically a holder of a professional degree in
engineering, law or business administration, preferably at graduate level or
equivalent experience, with at least 7 years experience in international
procurement practices including contract administration; and an extensive
experience with the World Bank's Procurement Guidelines, Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants of the World Bankl and its Standard Bidding Documents.
(c)    Disbursement and Financial Controller(s). Typically a professional in
accounting or business administration, preferably at graduate level, with at
least 5 years experience in the financial control of investment projects financed
by a multilateral development bank.
(d)    Expediter(s) and other specialized support staff.
E. PROVINCIAL PROJECT F.ACILITATION UNIT
Rationale. The Land Titling Project supports a national program and hence the primary
mana-ement of the project lies with DOLHI1M and its Project Support Unit. However, the
many of the project activities take place in the provinces and need to be closely coordinated
with the provincial and local government and their agencies responsible for land
mana-ement. Furthermore, strengthening of the provincial land administration is critical to
ensure sustainability of the project and the development of efficient land markets. Hence the
purpose of setting up a Provincial Project Facilitation Unit (PPFU) is to facilitate smooth
project implementation at the provincial level and to ensure support from provincial and
local authorities.
Functions. The PPFU will have the following functions:
(a)    Serve as Secretariat to the Provincial Oversight Committee (POC), including
the preparation of annual workplans and budgets for POC endorsement.



- 94 -
Annex I I
Page 8
(b)    Facilitate project implementation in the province, through (i) adequate
information of and solicitation of support from concerned provincial, district,
and village authorities; (ii) briefing of project staff and contractors on the
specific situation of the province or district; (iii) close coordination with the
Project Manager, Project Support Unit, the systematic registration contract
team, the TA team and the Project Management Agent and (iv) liaison with
the Provincial Technical Adviser.
(c)    Planning, monitoring,, and evaluation of project activities in the province,
including the preparation of annual workplans and budgets for endorsement by
the POC and submission to the Project NManager; the monitoring of
implementation of approved plans and performance indicators and submission
of monthly provincial progress reports to the PSU for compilation of project
progress reports and other reports which may be required by the GOL, IDA,
and AusAID; and the evaluation of project performance in the province and
preparation of recommendations on possible remedial action for the PSU.
(d)    Mvlaintenance of project accounts and verification of payments for expenditures
under provincial authority, such as salaries for PPFU staff and equipment,
including the financial management of GOL counterpart finds and submission
of consolidated monthly financial statements to the Project Manager.
Organizational Structure and Staffing. The PPFU will be headed by the Chief of the
Off-ice of Land and Housing Mslanagement, who will report to the Head of Finance
Services. The unit will have two functional area: (a) Project Facilitation and (b)
Plannigi'/i.Nloiitoring/Accotinting. Each area would be staffed with one local professional.
The unit would have also two clerical support staff and one driver.
Transfer of Know How Arrangements and Technical Assistance. Each PPFU will be
supported by a local Provincial Advisers to be funded under AusAID which will assist in the
implementation of project activities, specifically with regard to systematic land titling and
training.



-  95  -                                        Annex ll
Page 9
Phasing In of Staff. The following table describes the number of staff by project year,
considering the phasing in of provinces/prefectures during project implementation from
initially two to eventually five.
Table: Staffing for Provincial Project Facilitation Units
Project Year                            PYI    PY2    PY3)   PY4    PY5
No. of Provinces/Prefectures            2       3        5       5        5
Existing Staff (Chief DOLHM)            2       3        5       5        5
Incremental Staff::
- Professionals                         4        6       10      10       10
- Support Staff                         4        6       10      10       10
Total Staffing for PPFUs                10       15      25      25       25
1aos\koriX707.do;e
EN-IR YOLUR N.AMIE HERE
Mt. I.A.NI)I..\A(S .''PR.ISA l.AOANI I.DOC
Fii;hruam 5. 1996 4 46 i'.\



-96 -                                     Annex 12
LAO PDR
LAND TITLING PROJECT
Project Management Structure
Land Remanage-
ment Committee
- - - - - - - - - -  Project Steering
Comrnmittee
Chair: VM MOF
TAl
Team                o     Project Director
Leader                  (Director: DOLHM)
PA
10-   Project Manager             Project
-------------            Administrator   l
Epr Project Support Unit ;
Provincial Oversight
Province Administration |            Committee
------------------    Chair: Vice Govem.
Division of Finance
Office of Land &
Housing Management
Provincial
Advisor           o   Prov. Project
Facilitation Unit
District Offices



- 97  -                                    Annex 13
LAO PDR
LAND TITLING PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
I.    Lao PDR/World Bank/BHP Engineering, Land Titling Project Preparation Report,
May31, 1995,
2.     Detailed Project Cost Tables
3.     Draft Plan for Systematic Adjudication Teams.






MAP SECTION






0                /14  g            CH1I9A                            CHINA
(sIJIkIA .   !    siMYANMAR    )                                                                                  1
.44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j  ~~~~~~-<                                                        LAO'
,,.\  CHIN            d {e           8s                                                  , _    f   <  PEO^PLE'S                        ;' 
'hon' I)                            VIET NAM                                        D IEM. REP.
MYANMAR                                  ONGSALY'                                                                      .                     VIEP
LUANG9Vl[HAt   _  j /      .    \-         {\                                                  F         THAILAND      
BKEO                   N.)hil
Soi   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~egiCAM13ODIA
I       O 
SAYABOURY  (                              XIANG
S    v  X             ~~~/ gKhnoao      r
THAILAND   (V~
~~    -Y~~~      /. ~~BOLIK'HAMSATh
rA'r7_!         nNAM
>->_                                                    84\ ~~~~~~KH4ANE 4
LAO PEOPLE'S                                                (              -
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                                  -
LAND TITLING PROJECT
PROJECT PROVINCES                   ELEVATIONS IN METERS-                  Snor1
BELOW 200                              \ J\\J                                  Vt
t J                        ROADS                                   7()0 - 500                              i    z        Rrg   --.,  -         \
PRIMARY PAVFD                            5(11 - 0100                                                                 \,
ROADS        200-500                                                  0-' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S NEI
ID                  ---   PRIMARY UNPAVED                          11(110 - 2000
-      SECONDARY PAVED                   n   ABOVE 2000                                                       '    Sarna
SECONDARY UNPAVED                                                                             /                         S
*7\,_ RIVERS                           0   SELECTED TOWNS                                              
_, nlli    + AIRPORTS                                S    PROVINCE HEADQlUARERS
b   KLOvEllRS L   S   1         I'jL        fwP~~(J   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                 5Canp\O             7 4f            S
L        I________________--PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                       1k        O
LI            5.0100             10 .7,                    _.-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
h bound=i-s colors. deno-nin-I-ns and any oIler mlOrnolion
rohn -o lh. rep do not imply, on fle port af The World Roof Groop. p          ?                            'l |
-y udgment on tihe egSals of nap oratory or -ay endorsemenl ---
[ .       pla- o      bo- daries d                                                                                      K
CAMBODIA
3  I101          J                          04IJ                                       ffi  C                          9      CC7









IMAGING
Report No:       14902 LA
Type: SAR



