Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2832 LA
                  Development Credit Agreement
                      (Land Titling Project)
                              between
                 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                and
              INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 7, 1996
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2832 LA
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 7, 1996, between LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC (the "Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
"Association").
      WHEREAS: (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      WHEREAS: (B) The Borrower intends to obtain from the Australian
Agency for International Development ("AusAID") a grant (the "AusAID
Grant") in an amount equivalent to five million sixty thousand dollars
($5,060,000.00) to assist in the financing of Part F of the Project, on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the "AusAID
Memorandum of Subsidiary Arrangement") to be entered into between the
Borrower and AusAID; and
      WHEREAS: (C) The Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Page  2
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereto set forth below (the "General Conditions")
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
            expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
            a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
            supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
            any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
            goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Association, is prohibited by a decision of the united
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
            Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
following additional terms, wherever used, in this Agreement have the
following meanings:
      (a)   "Decrees" means, collectively, the Borrower's following prime
ministerial decrees: (i) Decree No. 99/PM on Land Ownership and
Permissible Uses, dated December 19, 1992; (ii) Decree No. 52/PM on
Document Registration, dated March 13, 1993; and (iii) Decree No. 50/PM
on Land Tax, dated March 13, 1993;
      (b)   "DOLHM" means the Borrower's Department of Land and Housing
Management, established within MOF pursuant to the Borrower's Prime
Ministerial Decree No. 104/PM on the Organization of the Ministry of
Finance, dated July 06, 1993, and such term includes any successor to
DOLHM;
      (c)   "DSA" means the Borrower's Department of State Assets,
established within MOF pursuant to the Borrower's Prime Ministerial
Decree No. 104/PM, referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above, and such
term includes any successor to DSA;
      (d)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve-month period corresponding to
any of the Borrower's Fiscal Years, which period commences on October 1
and ends on September 30 in each calendar year, and the term "Fiscal
Years" means, collectively, more than one Fiscal Year;
      (e)   "Kip" means the unit of currency of the Borrower;
      (f)   "LRMC" means the Borrower's Land Re-Management Committee,
established pursuant to Article 14 of the Borrower's Prime Ministerial
Decree No. 99/PM, referred to in sub-paragraph (a) (i) above, and such
term includes any successor to LRMC;
      (g)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, organized
pursuant to the Borrower's Prime Ministerial Decree No. 104/PM, referred
to in sub-paragraph (b) above, and such term includes any successor to
MOF;
      (h)   "MOU" means the Memorandum of Understanding to be entered into
between MOF and NGD pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this
Agreement, and such term includes all schedules to said Memorandum;
      (i)   "NGD" means the Borrower's National Geographic Department
established within the Office of the Prime Minister of the Borrower,
pursuant to the Borrower's Prime Ministerial Decree No. 107/PM, dated
July 14, 1994, and such term includes any successor to NGD;
      (j)   "PA" means the Project Administrator, referred to in Section
3.03 of this Agreement;
      (k)   "Project Area" means, collectively, the following Prefecture
Page  3
and provinces of the Borrower: (i) Vientiane Prefecture; (ii) Luang
Prabang Province; (iii) Vientiane Province; (iv) Savannakhet Province; and
(v) Champassak Province;
      (l)   "Project Implementation Plan" means the plan for implementing
the Project, referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of, and Schedule 4 to, this
Agreement;
      (m)   "PSC" means the Project Steering Committee to be established
by the Borrower, referred to in Part A (5) of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, and such term includes any successor to PSC;
      (n)   "PSU" means the Project Support Unit to be established by
the Borrower, referred to in Part A (1) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (o)   "POC" means the Provincial Oversight Committee to be
established by the Borrower, referred to in Part A (5) of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, and such term includes any successor to POC;
      (p)   "PPFU" means the Provincial Project Facilitation Unit to be
established by the Borrower, referred to in Part A (6) of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement; and
      (q)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 14,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account in Banque
pour le Commerce Exterieur Lao on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2003, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
(60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June
30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid:
Page  4
            (i)    at such places as the Association shall reasonably
                   request;
            (ii)   without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in
                   the territory of, the Borrower; and
            (iii)  in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
                   purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or
                   in such other eligible currency or currencies as may
                   from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
                   to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 commencing August
1, 2006 and ending February 1, 2036. Each installment to and including
the installment payable on February 1, 2016, shall be one percent (1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever:
            (i)    the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
                   determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
                   seven hundred ninety dollars ($790) in constant 1985
                   dollars for five consecutive years; and
            (ii)   the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for
                   Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the
                   review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
                   of the Association and after due consideration by them
                   of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
                   the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph
                   (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
                   amount of each such installment not yet due until the
                   principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid.
                   If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
                   revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
                   or all of the increase in the amounts of such
                   installments, the payment of interest at an annual
                   rate agreed with the Association on the principal
                   amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
                   time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
                   Association, such revision shall not change the grant
                   element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
                   modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
Page  5
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, except Part B (1) (a)
thereof, through DOLHM and shall carry out said Part B (1) (a) through
NGD, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, economic, engineering, financial, managerial,
and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds (including foreign exchange), facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Project Implementation Plan set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that MOF and NGD enter
into a Memorandum of Understanding ("MOU"), under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association, setting forth each
party's respective rights and obligations required for the successful
carrying out of Part B (1) (a) of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall ensure that each of MOF and NGD exercises
its respective rights and obligations under the MOU in such a manner so
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not permit either MOF or NGD
to assign, amend, abrogate or waive the MOU, or any provision thereof.
       Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than September 30,
1996, employ a Project Administrator ("PA") in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. The PA shall
be responsible for Project administration functions, during the early
years of Project implementation (Fiscal Years 1996-1999), including,
inter alia, Project finance, accounting and budgeting, training, and the
procurement of works, goods and services required for the Project.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall at all times, until completion of
the Project, promptly provide any and all security clearances, approvals,
licenses, permits and permissions required, or otherwise needed, to allow
for: (i) the conduct of aircraft flights above its territory within its
airspace as may be necessary, from time to time, to perform the aerial
photography activities referred to in Part B (1) (a) of the Project; and
(ii) the processing, at premises located outside the Borrower's territory,
of the photographic negatives produced as a result of such aerial
photography activities.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1997,
issue implementing regulations to the Decrees, which regulations shall
be satisfactory to the Association and shall set forth the specific
requirements and procedures for the issuance, registration, adjudication
and enforceability of land transfer, occupancy and use rights.
      Section 3.06. (a) Without any restriction or limitation upon any
of the provisions of the General Conditions, not later than December 31,
1999, the Borrower shall carry out, based on terms of reference
acceptable to the Association, a comprehensive mid-term review of the
progress achieved to date by the Borrower in carrying out the Project and
in developing and implementing its national land titling program.
      (b) Promptly thereafter, and taking into account the Association's
recommendations made on the basis of the findings of said mid-term review,
the Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all actions necessary to
achieve the objectives of the Project and further develop and implement
its national land titling program.
      Section 3.07. For purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Condi-
tions, and without any limitation or restriction thereto, the Borrower
shall:
            (i)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
                   Association, and furnish to the Association not later
                   than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or such
                   later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
Page  6
                   the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the
                   future operation of the Project; and
            (ii)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
                   exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
      Section 3.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, separate records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower (including, but without limitation, DOLHM and
NGD) responsible for carrying out the Project, or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section (including those for
                   the Special Account) for each Fiscal Year audited
                   in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                   consistently applied by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six (6) months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
                   the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
                   concerning such records, accounts and the audit
                   thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                   Section, records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one (1) year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for the
                   Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the
                   Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                   bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included
                   in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
                   this Section and that the report of such audit
                   contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
                   whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                   during such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures
                   and internal controls involved in their preparation,
                   can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
Page  7
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   Any of the Decrees shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, materially and adversely,
the ability of the Borrower, or any of its departments or agencies, to
implement the Project, or any part thereof.
      (b)   MOF or NGD shall have failed to carry out any of their
respective obligations under the MOU.
      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of
this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Borrower will be able to perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement.
      (d)   (i) Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, the
                right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the
                AusAID Grant shall have been suspended, canceled or
                terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
                of the AusAID Memorandum of Subsidiary Arrangement.
           (ii) Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
                the Borrower establishes, to the satisfaction of the
                Association, that: (A) such suspension, cancellation or
                termination is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
                to perform any of its obligations under the AusAID
                Memorandum of Subsidiary Arrangement; and (B) adequate
                funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from
                other sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely, that
any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60)
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to
the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely that:
      (a)   The Borrower shall have established and staffed the PSU,
pursuant to the provisions of Part A.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
and
      (b)   All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the AusAID
Memorandum of Subsidiary Arrangement shall have been fulfilled, other
than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III
and IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
this Agreement shall terminate, or on the date twenty (20) years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is hereby
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Page  8
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Post Office Box No. 46
            Vientiane
            Lao People's Democratic Republic
            Cable Address:                 Telex:
            MINFINANCE                     4369
            Vientiane                      MOF LS
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
            INDEVAS                        248423 (RCA),
            Washington, D.C.                82987 (FTCC),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT).
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                         By /s/ Hiem Phommachanh, Ambassador
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Russell Cheetham
                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific
                            SCHEDULE 1
                Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the          % of
                            Credit Allocated    Expenditures
                             (Expressed in          to be
      Category              SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1) Civil works               430,000.00        95%
(2) Goods                   1,750,000.00        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
Page  9
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3) Aerial photography         530,000.00       100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(4) Land adjudication        5,400,000.00       90%
(5) Map production           2,030,000.00       90%
(6) Consultants'             1,720,000.00       100%
    services
(7) Local training             190,000.00       90%
(8) Recurrent
    expenditures
    (a) expenditures           100,000.00       100%
        incurred prior to
        September 30,1999
    (b) expenditures            50,000.00       50%
        incurred thereafter
(9) Unallocated              1,800,000.00
                            _____________
   TOTAL                    14,000,000.00
                            =============
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower;
      (b)   The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   The term "recurrent expenditures" means expenditures for
the operation and maintenance of buildings, facilities, equipment and
vehicles and miscellaneous office materials as may be reasonably
required for purposes of Project implementation, but excluding any
salaries of any personnel.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement; or (b) payments made for expendi-
tures under Categories (3) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of this Schedule in respect of Part B (1) (a) of the Project, unless
MOF and NGD shall have entered into the MOU, pursuant to the provisions
of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
contracts for: (a) goods and works valued at less than two hundred
thousand dollars ($200,000) equivalent each; (b) the employment of
consulting firms valued at less than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) equivalent each; (c) the employment of individual consultants
valued at less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent each;
(d) training; and (e) recurrent expenditures, all under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
Page  10
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to develop
and implement its national land titling program, and thereby establish
a system of clear and enforceable land transfer, occupancy and use
rights supported by an effective land administration and valuation
system, so as to promote, inter alia, the long-term development of
efficient land markets and facilitate domestic resource mobilization
throughout its territory.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Policy and Legal Framework
      Formulating policy guidelines and related legal regulations and
procedures to further develop the Borrower's existing policy and legal
framework governing land management and administration matters, and to
strengthen the development and implementation of the Borrower's national
land titling program.
Part B:     Accelerated Land Titling Program
1.    Implementing an accelerated land titling program throughout the
Project Area consisting of inter alia:
      (a)   Producing cadastral base maps, covering a total surface
area of about seven hundred seventy-two thousand hectares (772,000 ha)
of urban and periurban land, through the use of map control, aerial
photography and photogrammetric mapping activities and techniques;
      (b)   Undertaking systematic adjudication, issuance and
registration of land transfer, occupancy and use titles, including
preparing, distributing and registering related land records and
certificates, covering about two hundred ninety-four thousand five
hundred (294,500) parcels of urban and periurban land; and
      (c)   Undertaking sporadic adjudication, issuance and registration
of land transfer, occupancy and use titles, covering about twenty-eight
thousand six hundred (28,600) parcels of urban and periurban land.
2.    Disseminating data and information on said land titling program
throughout the Borrower's territory.
3.    Constructing new and renovating existing DOLHM and NGD facilities
within the Project Area.
4.    Training of DOLHM and NGD personnel in land title adjudication
methodologies and related registration and administration procedures
and techniques.
5.    Provision of necessary goods, equipment and materials (including
vehicles) required for carrying out the foregoing.
Part C:     Land Administration Systems
      Developing the Borrower's land administration system by: (i)
improving its existing land administration procedures; (ii) improving
its existing systems for land records management and their documentary
security (including the establishment of a computerized land registra-
tion system in selected parts of the Project Area); (iii) improving
office facilities within the Project Area; (iv) training land office
staff within the Project Area; and (v) developing and implementing
appropriate customer relations services programs within the project Area.
Part D:     Land Valuation
      Developing an improved system of land valuation by: (i) providing
educational and training opportunities to central and provincial
governmental staff at an accredited educational institution of the
Borrower; (ii) establishing a computerized land sales and rental
Page  11
valuation data base within the central districts of the Project Area
and the Vientiane Prefecture; and (iii) preparing manuals and related
materials for valuation staff developmental training.
Part E:     Technical Studies
1.    Conducting the following studies: (i) a community land tenure
study; (ii) a land fees and cost recovery study; (iii) a forest boundary
definition study; (iv) a socio-economic baseline survey; (v) a survey
measuring the socio-economic impact of land titling; (vi) a study on the
efficiency and land rights issues of nationalized lands; (vii) a human
resource development study; and (viii) an organizational management and
operational study.
Part F:      Institutional Strengthening
1.    Providing local and overseas training for selected staff of
DOLHM, DSA, NGD and the provincial land administration offices, so as
to strengthen their respective capacities in land surveying, digital
mapping, land valuation, land administration, land information systems
and public administration.
2.    Strengthening the capacity of the PSU in managing the day-to-day
operations of the Project.
3.    Strengthening the Borrower's institutional ability to carry out
the Project.
                          *  *  *  *  *  *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2003.
                             SCHEDULE 3
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the "Guidelines") and the
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers and Domestic Contractors: The
provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the
Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      Civil works estimated to cost one hundred thirty-seven thousand
dollars ($137,000) equivalent or less per contract, and four hundred
ten thousand dollars ($410,000) equivalent or less in the aggregate,
and goods estimated to cost two hundred ninety thousand dollars
($290,000) equivalent or less per contract, and five hundred seventy
thousand dollars ($570,000) equivalent or less in the aggregate, may
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
Page  12
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    International Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent
or less per contract, and one hundred thirty thousand dollars ($130,000)
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.    Procurement from UN Agencies, Direct Contracting and Local Shopping
      Miscellaneous materials and supplies estimated to cost twenty-five
thousand dollars ($25,000) equivalent or less per contract, and one
hundred eighty thousand dollars ($180,000) equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may be procured: (i) from the United Nations Inter-Agency
Procurement Services Office in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines; or (ii) under contracts awarded on the
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; or (iii) with the
Association's prior agreement, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:      Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for
the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Reviews
      With respect to each contract for goods or works estimated to cost
the equivalent of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Association in August 1981 (the "Consultant
Guidelines"). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall
be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Association, with such modifications as shall have been
agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Association, other standard forms acceptable to
the Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000)
equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000)
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Association review
shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a
Page  13
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association; (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising
the contract value to one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent
or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to fifty thousand dollars
($50,000) equivalent or above.
                              SCHEDULE 4
                     Project Implementation Plan
Part A:     Project Implementation Arrangements
1.     PSU. The Borrower shall establish within DOLHM, and thereafter
maintain until completion of the Project, a Project Support Unit ("PSU")
with membership, functions, terms of reference and resources satisfactory
to the Association. The PSU shall be responsible for, inter alia, the
general oversight and overall supervision, management and coordination
of Project implementation (including, but without limitation, the
consolidation of all Project work plans, reports and related budgets,
and their submission to the PSC for final review and approval prior to
their transmittal to the Association). For that purpose, the Borrower
shall take all measures required to ensure that the PSU is, at all times,
headed by a qualified project manager, and is otherwise staffed by
qualified personnel in adequate numbers (including, without limitation,
an accountant and a procurement officer) disposing of all the necessary
resources.
2.    DOLHM. The Borrower shall: (a) at all times maintain DOLHM with
satisfactory staffing, resources and operational funds; and (b) ensure
that DOLHM shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it,
the PSU and the Borrower to monitor and evaluate, on an on-going basis
in accordance with performance indicators satisfactory to the
Association, the progress achieved in implementing the Project and
achieving its objectives.
3.    NGD. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to ensure that
NGD carries out the aerial photography mapping activities referred to
in Part B (1) (a) of the Project in accordance with the provisions of
the MOU.
4.    PSC. The Borrower shall, not later than September 1, 1996,
establish and thereafter maintain until completion of the Project a
Project Steering Committee ("PSC") with membership and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association. The PSC shall be responsible
for inter alia: (i) providing overall policy guidance to the PSU project
manager; (ii) reviewing and approving the Project work plans and
progress reports referred to in Part B (1) of this Schedule; (iii)
liaising between the PSU and the LRMC, and recommending to the LRMC
such changes in land management policies as may be required to ensure
the successful implementation of the Project and achievement of its
objectives; and (iv) coordinating between the various central and
provincial governmental agencies involved in Project implementation.
5.    POC. The Borrower shall, not later than October 15, 1996,
establish and thereafter maintain until completion of the Project a
Project Oversight Committee ("POC") within each province of the Project
Area with membership and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association. The POC shall be responsible for: (i) reviewing and
approving the annual provincial work plans and related budgets and
progress reports in respect of Project implementation, prior to their
submission to the PSU for Project-wide consolidation and final approval
by the PSC; (ii) coordinating between the various provincial
governmental agencies involved in Project implementation; and (iii)
reporting, through the PSC, on issues which might affect or otherwise
interfere with the successful implementation of the Project and the
achievement of its objectives in the province concerned.
6.    PPFU. The Borrower shall, not later than October 15, 1996,
establish and thereafter maintain in the Land and Housing Management
Office in Vientiane Province and in each province within the Project
Area, until completion of the Project, a Provincial Project Facilitation
Page  14
Unit ("PPFU") with membership and terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association. The PPFU shall be responsible for assisting the PSU in
managing Project implementation at the provincial level.
7.    DSA. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that
its Department of State Assets ("DSA") shall assist in the implementa-
tion of Project activities related to land valuation and state land
management.
Part B:      Project Progress Reports and Reviews
1.    The Borrower shall through the PSU: (a) submit to the Association,by May 31 and 
November 30 in each Fiscal Year, beginning on November 30
in Fiscal Year 1996, a semi-annual progress report on the implementation
of the Project, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request; (b) organize and carry out joint annual
Project review meetings with representatives of the Borrower and the
Association, and prepare an annual progress report on the implementation
of the Project, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association,
to be reviewed at these meetings; and (c) as part of each said annual
review, prepare and carry out a follow-up time-based action plan,
satisfactory to the Association, to remedy any deficiencies in Project
implementation identified during such review.
Part C:     Studies and Training.
1.   Studies. The Borrower shall, not later than November 30, 1996,
furnish to the Association for its prior approval the terms of
reference and time-bound action plans for carrying out each study
referred to in Part E of the Project. Upon its receipt of the
Association's approval, the Borrower shall promptly carry out each
study, as approved by the Association, and furnish to the Association,
for its review and comments, the draft report of each study together
with the proposed work plan and related budget for implementing its
recommendations. Once the Association has approved these recommendations,
the Borrower shall immediately take all measures necessary to implement
said recommendations with due diligence and efficiency, duly taking into
account the Association's views and comments thereon.
2.  Training. The Borrower shall, not later than August 31 in each
Fiscal year beginning with Fiscal Year 1996, furnish to the Association,
for its prior approval, the proposed programs and related budgets for
the provision of the training activities, for the immediately following
Fiscal Year, referred to in Part F (1) of the Project. Once the
Association has approved these programs and budgets, the Borrower
shall immediately take all measures necessary to carry out said
activities with due diligence and efficiency, duly taking into account
the Association's views and comments thereon.
Part D:      Operational Trials
1.Operational Trials. The Borrower shall, not later than September 30,
1996, furnish to the Association, for its prior approval, the proposed
time-bound action plan for implementing the lessons learned and
recommendations derived from the results of the Project preparation
operational trials undertaken prior to Credit effectiveness. Upon its
receipt of the Association's approval, the Borrower shall immediately
take all measures necessary to implement said recommendations with due
diligence and efficiency, duly taking into account the Association's
views and comments thereon.
                              SCHEDULE 5
                            Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2),
(3), (4), (5), (6), (7) and (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
Page  15
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, allocated
from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to six hundred thousand dollars ($600,000.00) to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to two hundred thousand dollars
($200,000.00) until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association, pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions, shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of four million
Special Drawing Rights (SDR4,000,000.00).
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                   for deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                   paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                   payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested.  On the basis of each such request, the
                   Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to have
                   been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible
                   Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
Page  16
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expendi-
tures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account:
            (i)    was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
                   eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
            (ii)   was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
                   Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
                   from the Association:
                   (A)   provide such additional evidence as the
                         Association may request; or
                   (B)   deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
                         Association shall so request, refund to the
                         Association) an amount equal to the amount of
                         such payment or the portion thereof not so
                         eligible or justified.  Unless the Association
                         shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
                         the Association into the Special Account shall
                         be made until the Borrower has provided such
                         evidence or made such deposit or refund, as
                         the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
Page  17
