                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 36582




                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-28320)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                              LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

                                                FOR THE

                                       LAND TITLING PROJECT




                                              June 27, 2006




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective May 10, 2006)

                                Currency Unit = Kip
                                         Kip 1 = US$ 0.00001
                                       US$ 1 = Kip 10,408

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                October 1 -   September 30

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDAB    Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
AusAID   Australian Agency for International Development
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DSA      Department of State Assets
DOLHM    Department of Lands and Housing Management
DOL      Department of Lands (replaced DOLHM)
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IEPS     Initial Executive Project Summary
FEPS     Final Executive Project Summary
GPS      Global Positioning System
KPI      Key Performance Indicators
LPRS     Land Parcel Recording System
LTP      Land Titling Project
LWU      Lao Women's Union
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOU      Memorandum of Understanding
NEM      New Economic Mechanism
NGD      National Geographic Department (of the Prime Minister's Office)
PA       Project Administrator
PHRD     Policy and Human Resource Development
PLO      Provincial Land Office
PPSU     Provincial Project Support Unit
PSC      Project Steering Committee
PSU      Project Support Unit
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SAT      Systematic Adjudication Team
TA       Technical Assistance
TOR      Terms of Reference



                               Vice President:   Jeffrey S. Gutman (Acting), EAPVP
                             Country Director    Ian Porter, EACTF
                              Sector Manager     Mark Wilson, EASRD
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Steven Oliver, EASRD

                       LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC


                                 LAND TITLING PROJECT

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT




                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            18
6. Sustainability                                                                19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               24
9. Partner Comments                                                              26
10. Additional Information                                                       26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38
Annex 8. Compliance with DCA Conditions                                          39
Annex 9. Precis of the Borrower's Completion Report                              42
Annex 10. Bilateral Co-financier (AusAID) Comments                               51

Project ID: P004208                                                  Project Name: LA-LAND TITLING
Team Leader: Steven William Oliver                                   TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: LA-LAND TITLING                                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-28320
   Country/Department: LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                   Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Law and justice (50%); Central government administration (40%); Sub-national government
                            administration (10%)
                  Theme: Land administration and management (P); Personal and property rights (P); Rural markets (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/15/1994                                     Effective: 09/07/1996                02/27/1997
     Appraisal: 06/28/1995                                         MTR: 12/31/1999                  10/15/1999
      Approval: 03/21/1996                                      Closing: 09/30/2003                 09/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          The Government of Lao PDR/The Ministry of Finance
                      Other Partners:      The Australian Agency for International Development

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jeffrey S. Gutman (Acting)                     Russell J. Cheatham
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Callisto Madavo
Sector Manager:                 Mark D. Wilson                                 Jeffrey S. Gutman
Team Leader at ICR:             Steven William Oliver
ICR Primary Author:             Steven William Oliver


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1    The overall goal of the project, as defined in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), was to strengthen
the basis for the long-term sustainable economic and social development of the Lao People's Democratic
Republic (Lao PDR). In order to contribute to the achievement of this goal, the two objectives of the
project were: (a) to foster the development of efficient land markets; and (b) to facilitate domestic resource
mobilization, by providing a system of clear and enforceable land-use ownership rights and by developing a
land valuation capacity.

3.1.2     The Development Credit Agreement (DCA), by contrast, described the project as having one
objective: "to assist the Borrower to develop and implement its national land titling program and thereby
establish a system of clear and enforceable land transfer, occupancy and use rights supported by an
effective land administration and valuation system so as to promote, inter alia, the long-term
development of efficient land markets and facilitate domestic resource mobilization throughout its
territory". As described below, the "national land titling program" had not actually been defined at the
beginning of project implementation and was expected to be prepared ("developed", in the language of the
DCA) during the early years of project implementation.

3.1.3    The objectives were expressed in very general terms, and it is unusual to see such a discrepancy
between the SAR and the DCA in the formulation of project objectives. Whilst the objectives were realistic
and important for the country, they were very qualitative; "to foster", "to facilitate" and "to assist" are not
expressions that lend themselves easily to monitoring or ex post measurement, and as a result it is a matter
of judgement to define the degree to which the objectives were achieved.

3.1.4    The operative Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of January, 1996 (Report No. 15284-LA)
defined its goal as poverty alleviation and the improvement of the standard of living, and two of the
principal mechanisms to achieve this were: (a) the promotion of economic growth; and (b) the creation of
social and physical infrastructure to enable the poor to take advantage of the opportunities provided by
such growth. The lending program designed to support the strategy was to be focused on expanding public
services to the poor and on maintaining a strong framework for economic growth. The project's goal was
fully consistent with the goal of the CAS, and the project's objectives were important to the CAS in helping
to create the framework for growth. A properly functioning system of land titling and registration,
providing the basis for an increase in fiscal revenue and an improvement in land markets and in security of
land tenure, is widely recognized as being an essential piece of infrastructure without which Laos cannot
become a modern country. The objectives of the project (and of its successor, the Second Land Titling
Project - LTP II) were, and remain, fully relevant to the objectives of both subsequent CASs (Report No.
19098 of March 30, 1999 and Report No. 31758 of March 10, 2005).                   .

3.1.5     The project made significant demands on the implementing agency, the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) and on the two principal implementing bodies, its Department of Lands and Housing Management
(DOLHM) and the National Geographic Department (NGD - of the Prime Minister's office). It was of
moderate complexity; the range of policy and institutional improvements sought and required by the project
was modest, the number of institutions involved was small, and the number of project components was not
large (although the geographic dispersion of their activities was necessarily high). The competence of the
main implementing agency was adequate and had been tested to a degree in the pilot and bridging activities.
There was only one co-financier, although its share of financing was high, at 18 percent of total anticipated
project costs, and its role was as the provider of technical assistance, a key project requirement.



                                                      - 2 -

3.1.6    The project was not a risky operation in the sense that its level of success was relatively immune
from exogenous factors. The project was extremely responsive to the Borrower's circumstances and
development priorities. The SAR described the transition of the Lao economy since 1986 from a
centrally-planned command and control model towards a market-based system through the introduction of
the New Economic Mechanism (NEM) and the importance of developing efficient markets for factors of
production, including land. Efficient land markets and the tenure security on which they depend were
recognized in the SAR as being crucial to the allocation of land to its most efficient users and uses, to
investment and to sustainable use.

3.1.7    The objectives might have been more clearly expressed if the scope and objectives of the overall
Land Titling Program had already been defined. A set of specific objectives for the project might then have
been related to the defined provinces, systems development, the number of Systematic Adjudication Teams
(SATs), the number of titles, etc. As it was, a somewhat peremptory approach was developed. The Land
Titling Program had not been prepared in detail and yet a number of key building-blocks were needed.
These were the elements needed for land titling, land valuation, registration and cadaster, and with the
opening of the economy to market forces the basic stance adopted by the government, Bank and the
Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID) was to get on with doing them as soon as
possible. The experience reinforces the strong case for the use of the log-frame analysis (see, for example,
the AusAID Implementation Completion Report of September 2003).

3.1.8    The issue of why the project was not part of a clearly defined long-term land titling program was
raised before appraisal (at the Final Executive Project Summary review meeting on June 7, 1995). The
explanation given was that there was a lack of experience in land titling and a shortage of information that
prevented the preparation of a long-term program at the same time that the government felt that land
registration was an important (and urgent) part of its economic reform program. Accordingly, the
government's intention was: (a) to start in urban and peri-urban areas where there was land market activity
and high economic growth, and gradually extend titling and registration into the rural areas; and (b) to use
the project to generate experience and information on which to base a long-term program that would
include the development of the legal and regulatory frameworks and the human resources necessary to
implement it. Although the long-term land titling program has not been defined, the LTP II was prepared
by carefully taking in the lessons learned from the project and concentrating on the key issues of insecurity
of tenure, lack of resolution in policy and regulatory decisions, and institutional weakness; recognizing the
very long-term nature of the titling and registration effort (at least requiring 25 years to accomplish fully);
and maintaining its focus on the provinces covered by the first project despite political pressure to expand
the area of activities.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1    The objectives of the project remained unchanged throughout the implementation period.


3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1    The project was designed to support the first seven years of a long-term national land titling
program, which would be developed during the implementation of the project, aimed at extending secure
land "ownership" and developing land administration and valuation systems including a cadastral mapping
system. The project focused on urban and peri-urban areas which, mainly in the provinces, included some
agricultural land-holdings, mainly small rice fields, on the periphery of the smaller towns.



                                                      - 3 -

3.3.2      The project design had six components and nine sub-components. The total project cost was
estimated at appraisal at US$28.38 million, which included: (a) taxes and duties (US$1.15 million); and (b)
physical and price contingencies (US$3.68 million).

3.3.3    Component A. The Completion of the Policy and Legal Frameworks for Land Management
and Administration (cost estimate at appraisal: US$0.4 million).

The component was designed to support the activities of the Ministries of Finance (MOF) and Justice
(MOJ) in applying existing regulations and preparing new legislation and regulations to improve the legal
basis for land management and administration. This process was to be informed by the outcomes of the
studies to be carried out under Component F and to continue the work begun under the Pilot Project: (a) to
resolve legal constraints to the (proposed) Land Titling Program; (b) to ensure the secure legal status of
land titles; and (c) to support the registration of land transactions.

3.3.3    Component B. The Implementation of an Accelerated Land Titling Program (cost estimate at
appraisal: US$19.9 million).

There were five sub-components: (a) base mapping; (b) systematic adjudication and registration; (c)
sporadic adjudication; (d) training in support of systematic and sporadic adjudication; and (e) customer
relations and services. Deficiencies in the then-existing base maps for the project areas were to be
overcome by contracting out map production (including aerial photography and the production of
orthophoto maps and rectified photomosaics) in the early years of the project whilst strengthening the
capacity of the NGD to take over this responsibility. New systematic adjudication and registration
procedures including the necessary field and record-keeping procedures were to be developed and tested,
and "sporadic" (i.e., on-demand)adjudication and registration was to be supported in limited areas.
Extensive training was to be provided, especially to the NGD and provincial Land Offices, and an
"outreach" program was to be implemented to ensure that landholders and others had sufficient information
to participate effectively in land titling. Support under the sub-component included significant levels of
investment in buildings, vehicles, information technology, surveying and Global Positioning System (GPS)
equipment, and mapping.

3.3.4    Component C. Infrastructure, Facilities and Systems for Land Administration (cost estimate
at appraisal: US$2.7 million).

The component was intended to support the development of land administration systems including the
creation of a computerized land registration system, the building or improvement of provincial land office
facilities, training and "customer relations services". In practice, there appears to have been little clear
distinction between the contents of Components B and C, and the SAR does not have an annex on detailed
project description.

3.3.5    Component D. Land Valuation (cost estimate at appraisal: US$0.8 million).

The component was designed to develop improved and more equitable systems of land valuation,
emphasizing: (a) human resource and skills development; (b) a sales and rental valuation data base, initially
in Vientiane Municipality and subsequently in other major urban areas; and (c) land valuation policy and
legislation.




                                                       - 4 -

3.3.6    Component E. Project Implementation and Capacity Building (cost estimate at appraisal:
US$4.0 million).

There were four sub-components: (a) project management; (b) institutional strengthening; (c) long-term
development of land administration; and (d) education and training. The purpose of the component was to
strengthen the capacity of the Department of Lands (DOL) and assist it in planning, management, and
monitoring and evaluation of the Land Titling Program. The component was intended to assist project
management via the Project Support Unit (PSU) in the DOL, and to strengthen DOL itself and the
provincial-level institutions involved in the Land Titling Program.

3.3.7    Component F. Studies (cost estimate at appraisal: US$0.6 million).

Eight studies were identified as being important to the development of a properly functioning land
information system. These were: (a) a socio-economic base-line survey in the first year of the project; (b)
an impact survey in the final year of the project; (c) a community land tenure study; (d) a forest boundary
definition study; (e) a study of land transaction fees and cost recovery; (f) a study of efficiency and
land-use rights issues of nationalized land; (g) a study of human resources development; and (h) an
organizational management and operation study. The draft outline terms of reference for five of these
studies [(a), (c), (d), (e) and (f)] were presented in Annex 8 of the SAR.

3.3.8    The government agreed in negotiations that it would: (a) present to the IDA the (refined) terms of
reference and a plan to carry out the eight studies; (b) upon completion of each study, present its report to
the IDA with a plan and budget to implement the recommendations; and (c) upon "approval" from the IDA,
implement the recommendations.

Discussion:

3.3.9    There is a confusing presentation of the components and sub-components in the SAR and in the
DCA. In the SAR, Component F is referred to as "Studies" in the cost tables and in the Project Objectives
and Description, but in the Detailed Project Features Component F is referred to as "Technical Assistance
and Overseas Training" and the studies are referred to (twice) in the description of Component E. In
Schedule 2 of the DCA, Components E and F are reversed, and the description of the components and
sub-components does not coincide with that given in the SAR. This has led to confusion, amongst other
things in the project accounting, that persists until the present.

3.3.10   The stated objectives of the project were qualitative and loosely defined. In practice, the real
objectives of the project were the outputs themselves, because the outputs were necessary (although not
sufficient) for the creation of an economic infrastructure of land parcel measurement and adjudication,
issuance and recording of titles and their subsequent transactions, and land taxation. The components were
closely related to the specific (output) objectives of the project parsed from the list of Key Performance
Indicators (KPI) and to the capacity of the implementing agency. With certain caveats, the components
were within the administrative and financial management capacity of the implementing agencies. From the
earliest stages of project identification and preparation, the weaknesses of both DOL and NGD were
recognized and these were confirmed by the pilot project; specific steps were taken to strengthen these
institutions and to train staff, and they were supplemented by project management support and technical
assistance (TA). The TA was a crucial element in supporting the implementing agency in its technical
development and with respect to administration. In retrospect, the role of the Project Administrator in
supporting the administration of the DOL in the early years of the project is considered to have been of only
marginal value.


                                                       - 5 -

3.3.11   The SAR referred to the development of a long-term Land Titling Program to be prepared in the
early years of the project. The DCA described the IDA's role in the development and implementation of the
Program as the project's objective. However, despite IDA's reminders* to the government concerning the
need to prepare such a Program, it does not appear ever to have been prepared in the form of a single,
coherent document.

[* e.g., following the supervision mission of July/August 1997, the management letter stated that " ...
expansion plans for land titling ... should be underpinned by a long term land titling plan for the whole
country which should be formulated in the next twelve months ...".]

3.3.12   Lessons learned from other projects. The identification and structuring of the components took
into account lessons learned in other projects implemented in Laos and in land titling elsewhere. The SAR
candidly stated that while there was no experience with land administration projects in Laos all other
projects in agriculture and natural resources, both past and then-existing, were rated as "unsatisfactory".
Implementation was felt to have been hampered by inappropriate macroeconomic and sector policies, weak
institutions, and a poor human resource and infrastructure base. Similarly, the Bank's experience with land
titling projects elsewhere had been only moderately successful, with such successes as had been recorded
having been mainly in the land titling projects in Thailand. The factors contributing to poor performance of
land projects elsewhere read like a compendium of the all-too-familiar ills. By contrast, the success of the
projects in Thailand was felt to be the result of: (a) simplicity of design, with a single objective of land
titling and a single agency responsible; (b) strong government commitment; (c) a gradual increase in cost
recovery; (d) well formed and trained teams working closely with the communities concerned; and (e) the
efficient use of new technologies. The experience gained in the pilot land titling project helped with the
design in numerous ways, particularly the revision in land registration procedures to allow consideration of
non-documentary evidence of land possession; at that stage, it was estimated that less than ten percent of
the 1.6 million parcel-holders had any documentary evidence of their land use rights.

3.3.13    The project can fairly be said to have incorporated in the design of the components the caveats
presented by other projects in Laos and elsewhere. A simple project design was followed, with limited
project objectives and one lead implementation agency. The institutional and human resource limitations
were recognized by the use of grant funding to design the project and then to prepare the ground for its
implementation with a pilot project and a bridging operation. The introduction of the private sector, both
international and domestic, was designed to help overcome the human resource constraints in
implementation while working closely with the national and provincial government entities. The project
focused on the formalization of existing rights to land, working closely with communities and their
leadership to resolve boundary disputes and involve landholders fully in the process.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1    Neither the design nor the relative importance of the components was revised during project
implementation.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1    The "Quality at Entry" of the project is considered to have been satisfactory. The objectives and
goals of the project were fully consistent with the CAS and with government's priorities. The quality of the
design was adequate and was well-informed by the pilot and bridging activities that had been undertaken as



                                                       - 6 -

the result of close and energetic cooperation between the IDA and AusAID and by the pragmatic process of
reference to the long-term land titling efforts being made in neighboring Thailand. The assumptions and the
assessment of risks made were reasonable. With the benefit of hindsight, it is clear that a number of
improvements could have been made in project design, and the preparation and implementation of the
Second Land Titling Project, currently being implemented, benefitted strongly from the lessons learned.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1    The outcome of the project is considered to have been moderately satisfactory. In broad terms, the
project has contributed significantly to the achievement of the objectives defined in the SAR and the DCA.
The project was fully satisfactory in the development of the legal and regulatory framework (principally the
content of Component A); the Land Law was promulgated in 1997 and several Prime Minister's Decrees
and both Ministerial and Departmental regulations and instructions were issued to create the framework for
systematic land registration and administration. The project was less successful in building institutional
capacity, and land titling activities fell short of the original and revised targets.

4.1.2    It was implicitly recognized in the SAR that the Land Titling Program would be a long-term effort
requiring commitment from both the government and donors. Frequent references are made in the SAR,
and elsewhere, to the Land Titling Program in Thailand as being a model for Laos. The Thai program is
widely recognized as having been a success, and its lessons are salutary for Laos. The program in
Thailand was identified in 1982 and has been implemented through four consecutive five-year projects
which began in 1984 and continues today. In a Background Paper for the World Development Report
2005, it was noted that " ... despite the success of the land titling project in Thailand ... the task is
incomplete and a significant number of Thai citizens have not been able to benefit directly from the
project". In 2004, after twenty years of progress, a large segment of the population " ... cannot benefit
from land titling activity until there are some fundamental changes in the policy and legal framework".
No-one should therefore be in any doubt about the long-term and demanding nature of the land titling
challenge in Laos. The project has made a good start in establishing the institutional framework for the
Program; testing survey, titling and registration methodologies and procedures; and creating awareness
among land-holders and communities concerning the importance of formal titles, proper registration of
transactions, and taxation obligations.

4.1.3    The SAR emphasized that the project was expected to strengthen the position of women with
respect to land holding and registration, given the pronounced emphasis on gender equality expressed in the
Constitution and in the legal structure of Laos. Compared to other East Asian countries, women in Laos
have good opportunities for access to and control of land, and more than 50 percent of women live in areas
with strong matrifocal and matrilocal traditions. Concern was recorded in the SAR that the adjudication
process might not fully recognize women's rights with respect to land and specific measures were included
in the project design to ensure their proper treatment. This concern was successfully addressed. Women
had equal rights under the project in registering their names on land titles; about 28 percent of all the parcel
titles registered were in the name of a female only, 41 percent were in joint names, and 21 percent were in
the name of males only. The Lao Women's Union (LWU) played a strong role in the implementation of the
project with a well-prepared program designed to make women aware of their rights and responsibilities
and of the potential benefits to be derived.




                                                        - 7 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1    From its description in the SAR, the project had implicit sector policy, physical, financial (fiscal)
and institutional development objectives but did not have macro-economic objectives. In terms of sector
policy objectives, the project was intended to apply existing regulations and prepare future legislation
concerning land in order to improve the legal framework for land management and administration and to
provide the overall policy framework within which such laws would operate. The physical objectives of
the project included the establishment of physical infrastructure (e.g., buildings), the supply of vehicles and
equipment, the preparation of maps, and the carrying out of land parcel titling and registration activities.
The financial/fiscal objectives of the project were to increase the amount of land-related fees and taxes
collected by the national and provincial governments. The institutional development objectives of the
project were to strengthen the DOL and the authorities of the project provinces to be able to implement the
land titling program. The components of the project contributed to the achievement of these objectives as
follows:

                                                        Outcome                       Objectives:
                                                                         Sector Physical Financial/ Institutional
                                                                        Policies           Fiscal  Development
 Components:
 A. Legal and Policy Framework                   Satisfactory              x                              x
 B. Land Titling Program                         Moderately Satisfactory           x         x
 C. Infrastructure, Facilities and Systems       Satisfactory                      x
 D. Land Valuation                               Satisfactory                      x
 E. Project Implementation and Capacity Building Moderately Satisfactory                                  x
 F. Studies                                      Moderately Satisfactory   x                              x

General Considerations:

4.2.2    It was recognized from the earliest stages of identification and preparation that the institutional
capacity to implement the project needed to be strengthened. By definition, the very large amount of work
involved in surveying parcels and then adjudicating and awarding titles under the project could not have
been undertaken by the DOL without a large injection of resources in terms of manpower, transport,
surveying and information technology, etc., and this was the main intervention of the project. The
provision of highly-qualified technical assistance (TA) via consultants inevitably introduced an over-lap
with project management itself. In the project, not only was TA to be provided by an international
consultant but also the need was identified for a Project Administrator (PA), funded from the Credit, to be
responsible for project management " ... during the early years of project implementation (Fiscal Years
1996-1999)". AusAID argued forcefully that the PA should not have overall responsibility for project
implementation but that this should be shared with the TA provider, especially where the decisions to be
made (e.g., in procurement, planning and financial management) directly affected the ability of the latter to
carry out its functions satisfactorily.

4.2.3    The terms of reference for the PA were modified several times. Proposals were requested from a
short-list of six firms; five proposals were received and the contract was awarded on a quality and cost
basis to the consulting company SODETEG of France. In practice, the PA seems to have operated for two
years (i.e., FYs 1997 and 1998). In March 1999, the DOLHM assessed the capabilities of the PSU. It
was considered to have improved but to be still in need of external support in specific areas (planning and
budget, finance and procurement, and training for the PSU and the PPFUs). The MOF proposed the



                                                       - 8 -

contracting of high-level consultants for a period of two years, a short-term extension of the PA contract to
achieve continuity, and the provision of an AusAID-financed advisor for two years to support project
management.

4.2.4    The AusAID-funded TA team was mobilized in September 1997. Once the project was
functioning, in October 1997 a Monthly Report was prepared jointly by the TA, the PA, and the PSU that
dealt with major events, issues and progress achieved and was very "results-oriented".

4.2.5    The Pilot Land Titling Project was established to gain experience during the inevitable hiatus
between preparation and implementation of the project. The three "bridging projects" (in effect, three
supplemental budget additions) that were used to extend the Pilot Project's closing date were the result of
the delays in making the Credit effective and the hiring of the PA and the TA consultants and were
completed in June 1997; the project itself began implementation in July 1997. The financial assistance
provided by the government of Australia and the agility with which it responded to each request for
additional support were extremely important in pioneering many activities that were essential to the project
but had not been tried or tested before. The achievements of the two-year pilot project were considerable,
and included: new methods of land registration and valuation; the development of a policy and legal
framework, including the drafting and promulgation of the Land Law and the preparation of draft
regulations for systematic land adjudication, land parcel registration, and leasing of state-owned land; and
the training and building of a cadre of staff for project implementation. The grant financing also supported
the preparation of studies on gender and culture issues, land valuation and human resource development.

4.2.6    For planning, budgeting and accounting purposes, the first year of the project was October 1, 1996
to September 30, 1997, coinciding with the government's fiscal year 1996. The Credit became effective
mid-way in PY1, and the TA and PA were installed, in practical terms, at the end of PY1. The original
Closing Date of the Credit (September 2003) indicated a project life of seven years, which was later
extended by two years. LTP II began implementation in September 2003 and therefore there was a
two-year overlap between them. In this period, the LTP Credit continued to be disbursed (against civil
works, and equipment).

4.2.7    It is clear from the record that there was an uneasy fit between the PA and the TA from the
beginning. In fact, AusAID had raised issues with the draft terms of reference of the PA and had indicated
several areas where there was potential for conflict, misunderstanding and confusion of responsibilities. In
retrospect, it is disturbing to read in an early supervision report (July/August 1997) the recommendation
that the Ministry of Finance should " ... define clearly the role of the PA and TA in project administration,
particularly in the procurement stages of bid evaluation; the clarification of roles should take into
account the terms of reference of the TA and the PA.". Given that the recognized institutional weaknesses
of the DOL were the precise reason for the inclusion of the PA and the TA in the project's design, their
respective roles (and those of the Steering Committee and the Project Support Unit) should have been
spelled out with the utmost clarity before the project started. This could have been achieved if an
Operational Manual had been prepared and agreed to as part of the project's design and the processing of
the Credit.

Component A. Legal and Policy Framework

4.2.8     The Land Law was promulgated in April 1997 and several Prime Minister's Decrees and both
Ministerial and Departmental regulations and instructions have been issued to create the framework for
systematic land registration and administration, cadastral surveying and property valuation. The Land Law
defines and describes the main institutional responsibilities for land management and administration and


                                                       - 9 -

defines seventeen specific functions of land management to be fulfilled by government. The Land Law
establishes that all land is owned by the State which grants rights over its use to citizens and foreigners. A
number of key policy issues, mainly involving the clarification of uncertain areas under the Land Law, was
identified during the project; some were resolved but others were not and are reported to continue to have
an impact in LTP II.

Component B. Land Titling Program

4.2.9     The systematic land titling program was originally designed to be undertaken in Vientiane Capital
and in the urban and peri-urban areas of four provinces: Luang Prabang, Vientiane, Savannakhet and
Champasak. This was later extended to include the provinces of Khammouane, Bolikhamsay, Saravan
and Sayaboury). The sporadic titling program to issue titles on a demand basis was designed to take place
in three provinces not involved in systematic titling efforts and to be selected annually by the Project
Steering Committee. The aim under this component was to survey and adjudicate about 323,100 parcels
(302,500 of them through 19 Systematic Adjudication Teams - SATs - and the remainder via sporadic
titling) and to register the titles of about 258,480 surveyed and adjudicated parcels. The sporadic method
of land titling was abandoned during implementation, the main reason being that it was not cost-effective.

4.2.10   Aerial photography covering an area of 10,600 km² was carried out by a contractor and all
deliverables were finalized by the end of April 1998.

4.2.11   Bidding documents for mapping services were prepared by November 1996 by DOL and the pilot
project consultants. The procurement process was delayed slightly by the IDA which commented on the
bid evaluation process and caused it to be re-done. The selected contractor started work in Laos in early
1998.

4.2.12   Problems were reported with the technical quality of both aerial photography and photomaps,
which were remedied through a careful process of quality control and re-presentation of products by the
contractor.

4.2.13   The progress achieved throughout the project in issuing land titles was significantly less than
anticipated at appraisal. The SATs established in the four expansion provinces were made up of smaller
teams than those operating in the initially-identified five provinces, but by the end of the project all the
SATs were at full strength. A total of 190,656 parcels were surveyed and adjudicated, representing 60
percent of the appraisal target and 95 percent of DOL's revised target (of 200,000 parcels). In the early
stages of the project, there was a shortage of government staff to establish SATs, problems in technical
procedures, low financial incentives to those involved and, between 1997-1999, a lack of counterpart funds.
Performance improved strongly from PY 6 onwards (in which year the number of titles issued exceeded the
cumulative total for PYs 1-5). The low distribution of titles (65 percent of parcels surveyed and
adjudicated) at the end of the project also had an impact on the incremental government revenues that were
an important output of the project.

4.2.14   Under the project, the NGD established the Lao National Datum of 1997 with a geodetic network
of 82 first-order points. A technical publication concerning the datum and the geodetic grid for all
would-be users was issued. It also: (a) improved the accuracy of transformation parameters used with the
Global Positioning System (GPS); (b) provided GPS-based control points in those areas where aerial photo
maps could not be used; and (c) acquired aerial photography and produced orthophotomaps (at scales of
1:1,000, 1:2,000 and 1:4,000) for a total area of 890,000 ha.




                                                      - 10 -

4.2.15   The existence of a back-log in delivering titles to landholders is to a degree the result of the
"pipeline" effect and sequential process of surveying, data collection and authentication of land use rights,
registration of titles, etc.

4.2.16   The out-reach function (the sub-component of Customer Relations and Services) was inadequate in
the early years of the project to cover the range of project activities, affected communities and
beneficiaries; however, engaging the support of the LWU via a formal relationship enabled a significant
improvement in the dissemination of information and a focus on protecting women's rights to land. The
LWU assisted with the village meetings and improved information on gender issues; specific "women-only"
meetings were held to ensure that they received information in relation to their land rights.

4.2.17   The project has provided secure land-use rights to a large number of eligible land-holders. Women
had equal rights under the project in registering their names on land titles; about 37 percent of all the parcel
titles registered were in the name of a female only, 41 percent were in joint names, and 21 percent were in
the name of males only.

Component C. Infrastructure, Facilities and Systems for Land Administration

4.2.18   The LPRS was successfully implemented and Five Land Office buildings were constructed under
the project in Vientiane Prefecture (Capital), and in Savannakhet, Luang Prabang, Champassak and
Vientiane provinces. The detailed designs were prepared by consultants and reviewed by the TA
consultants. Bidding for construction was proceeded by a process of pre-qualification. The terms of
reference for consultants to supervise the construction process were prepared by the TA. An extensive
training program was prepared, and training provided to a large number of staff in each project province.
A technical proposal has been developed to computerize the LPRS.

Component D. Land Valuation

4.2.19   The property valuation system is based on "rate tables" and zone maps to simplify it and to make
its use more transparent. The system is in use in selected Districts of Vientiane Capital and the provinces
of Luang Prabang, Savannkhet and Champassak.

Component E. Project Implementation and Capacity Building

4.2.20   The whole project, with the exception of one sub-component, was designed to be implemented by
DOL; the sub-component of base mapping was to be implemented by the NGD. A Project Support Unit
(PSU) was created in DOL. In addition, the design called for an experienced Project Administrator to be
hired to assist with project management during the early years. At the provincial level, the project was
designed to be implemented by the Provincial Land Offices (POLs) supported by a Project Facilitation Unit
at each PLO. At the national level, overall project supervision and coordination were designed to be the
responsibility of the Project Steering Committee (PSC), and at the provincial level this was to be the
responsibility of Project Oversight Committees in each province.

4.2.21   A study of organization, management and operations (OMO) was carried out for DOL and the
PLOs to develop appropriate organizational structures, identify strengths an weaknesses, and to identify
training requirements and other human resource initiatives. The development of the "In-Country Course in
Surveying and Land Administration", later transformed into the three-year "Higher Diploma in Surveying
and Land Administration", in the Polytechnic School has had a positive impact on the development of
human resources under the project. In overseas training, three government staff obtained Master's degrees


                                                     - 11 -

in Land Administration (in Australia) and four DOL staff completed a two-year Property Valuation course
(in Thailand).

4.2.22   An early supervision mission (in March, 1998) discussed in detail an incident in Vientiane
Prefecture in which the land titling procedures of the project appeared not to have been followed, to the
detriment of an individual land-holder, a Lao citizen, whose legal representatives engaged in a lengthy
correspondence with the government and the IDA. He was effectively dispossessed of several land parcels
in Vientiane within the scope of the project but under highly dubious circumstances. The mission discussed
with the DOL the need for a periodic "technical audit" for the project which was referred to as " ... a
requirement of the Bank ... necessary for projects such as the LTP".

4.2.23 As a result of the supervision mission, the IDA forcefully insisted that: (a) a system of independent
technical audits should be instituted; (b) the requirement should be introduced for the swearing of an oath
by adjudication staff to follow procedures and regulations; and (c) the Project Director should issue an
Order spelling out the staff rules and procedures for land titling (as well as penalties for non-compliance),
all in order to improve strictness and transparency. The technical audits were to be carried out for the
systematic adjudication "program" and other selected components, initially at intervals of six months but
becoming an annual exercise after two years. The aim of the technical audits was to ensure that " ... laws
and procedures are being followed in systematic adjudication and that the rightful landholders are not
being dispossessed by the adjudication process". Terms of reference were prepared by the IDA and
shared with DOL and AusAID.

4.2.24   The MOF discussed the Bank/AusAID requirement and the proposal that the technical audits
should be funded from the Credit. In October, 1998, the DOLHM presented to the IDA a plan to enhance
quality of the adjudication works which included the oath, a declaration of "no interest" to exclude staff
where they had a direct interest in a given parcel, and a Technical Review (Quality Assurance) function in
adjudication. In view of these measures, the IDA agreed to the government's proposal that the technical
audits be carried out by an "inter-agency committee" rather than the private entity originally envisaged.
The TORs and work plan for the first technical audit were to be presented to the IDA by November 30,
1998 and the first audit carried out by March 31, 1999, with the report being shared by the PSC, the IDA
and AusAID. The TORs of the technical audits appear to have been considerably weakened from the
original intent, and this may have contributed to the issue discussed in Section 5.2.

Component F. Studies

4.2.25 The implementation of this component appears to have been given a reduced level of priority
compared to the rest of the project, and there is also some confusion in the SAR, and thus between the SAR
and the DCA, as to what precisely was included in the component. The SAR stated that, during
negotiations, it had been agreed that the government would prepare and submit to IDA the TORs for eight
studies and a time-bound plan to implement them. The eight studies were identified in the SAR (paragraph
2.15 (b)) and in the DCA (Schedule 2), and the means of proceeding with the studies (i.e., preparation of
TORs and a time-bound action plan, carrying out of the studies, sharing of the findings with IDA,
preparation of work plans and related budgets to implement each study's recommendations, approval of the
recommendations by IDA, and their implementation) was defined in the same SAR paragraph and in the
DCA (Schedule 4).



4.2.26   However, elsewhere in the SAR (paragraph 2.4 (f)) only five studies were identified and it was the
draft Terms of Reference for these five studies that were presented in the SAR Annex 8.


                                                      - 12 -

4.2.27    Between the approval of the Credit (in March 1996) and the actual start-up of project
implementation (in mid/late 1997) emphasis, perhaps understandably, was not placed on the studies
component. However, in April 1998, the expanded draft TORs for the five studies were presented to a
supervision mission, and both the mission and AusAID provided comments to the DOL and the TA. At
that time, the supervision mission stated that "It appears that the studies will be narrowed to just three
studies - down from five overall - " and at the end of the mission a new version of the TORs had been
prepared by the TA. Changes in the TORs (and implicitly in the relative importance of individual studies)
took into account " ... the developments that have taken place since the project was appraised, the
identification of more state land during the pilot projects and the elevated importance of the
socio-economic impact study and the study of land titling in rural community and forest lands.".

4.2.28    This sequence is summarized in the following table:

 Eight studies defined in the SAR                  Five studies:                       Three studies:
              and DCA:
 (a) socio-economic base-line survey                      ·                                    ·
 (b) survey of the socio-economic
impact of land titling
 (c) community land tenure study                          ·                                    ·
 (d) forest boundary definition study                     ·                  [(c) and (d) were combined into the
                                                                            "rural/forestry land titling study"]
 (e) land fees and cost recovery study                    ·                                    ·
 (f) efficiency and land rights issues of                 ·
nationalized land
 (g) human resource development
study
 (h) organizational management and
operation study


4.2.29    In December 1997, the DOL informed the IDA that the need for study (f) had been effectively
obviated by the preparation of the draft Ministerial Direction on the leasing of state land prepared under the
land titling pilot project and submitted to the Department of State Assets (DSA) in July 1997. The IDA
proposed instead that support be provided for drafting, discussion and finalization of regulations for leasing
state land and for the preparation of a plan to implement the regulations over the life of the project. The
TA and the DSA recommended modifications to this proposal to place more emphasis on regulations and
operational procedures, and the preparation of a Prime Minister's Decree to accompany the Ministerial
Direction.

4.2.30    The socio-economic base-line study was carried out only in the last year of the project. It was
apparently delayed by at least two years when the entity to which the study contract was awarded delayed
signing the contract because it did not agree to the general conditions of the IBRD standard contract. As a
result, the study in effect became a base-line study for LTP II. The survey of the socio-economic impact of
land titling to be carried out in the final year of the project was not done.




                                                        - 13 -

Technical Assistance under AusAID

4.2.31  The objective of the TA was to assist the DOL in the implementation of the project, and
specifically in the areas of technical and institutional capacity-building. A total of 66 National and
International advisers were deployed over the six years of the contract to achieve the agreed mile-stones.
The activities, outputs, and conclusions and lessons of the TA are spelt out in details in the AusAID Project
Completion Report of September 2003.

4.2.32  The TA activities focused primarily on the policy and legal framework, technical aspects of land
survey and land registration, institutional capacity building and training. TA to support the project
management activities in the PSU and PFUs were separately funded by the Credit. Based on the
IDA/AusAID supervision reports and AusAID's independent audits, the TA can be judged as positively
meeting the objective of assisting DOL implement the project. However, during the process, deficiencies
have also been identified: (a) in the early years, the international TA were predominantly short-term
advisers and this proved to be less effective than longer-term inputs; (b) output indicators were mainly the
production of reports, and thus diverted resources from the real knowledge transfer to counterparts; and (c)
advice given by the TA was less effectively absorbed by the counterpart because of its relatively low
capacity and quick rotation of staff.

Monitoring and Evaluation

4.2.33  An early Monthly Report (April 1998) prepared by the TA, PA and PSU stated that " ...
monitoring and evaluation efforts are recognized by all partners to the project as insufficient ... " and
proposed that the DOL should mobilize more staff for the PSU and use an internationally-recruited adviser
to develop a suitable monitoring system and to provide training (N.B. This was three years after the
project had been prepared).

4.2.34  Key Performance Indicators The SAR classified the key performance indicators (KPI) into three
categories: (a) output indicators; (b) efficiency indicators; and (c) impact indictors. While the output
indicators were defined in detail, the efficiency and the impact indicators were proposed to be defined
during years two and three of the project. Unfortunately, these indicators have never been defined. The
Socio-economic Baseline Study was only completed towards the end of the project.

4.2.35  To assess the project's achievements relative to the objectives, outcome/impact indicators have
been reconstructed in line with the project's development objectives and presented in Annex 1. The ICR
mission also recognized significant social impacts, and additional indicators have been formulated to reflect
the social aspect. In line with the project objectives, the outcome/impact indicators are classified in three
headings: (a) land market/tenure security; (b) resource mobilization; and (c) social/gender. It is
recommended that these indicators should be used to facilitate the monitoring and evaluation of LTP II.
During the ICR mission, discussions were held with the project's management concerning these indicators.
Some data are already available to the project's management. It is important to establish the framework
and define the indicators, and follow this by data collection and analysis.

4.2.36 Land market and tenure security Indicators under this category were not defined in the SAR.
Five indicators have been defined and assessed (Annex 1). These show that the land market has gradually
been developed and tenure has been secured, as people make registrations to buy and sell land, to obtain
mortgage loans, to inherit land and to carry out other transactions. For 2004/2005, the total number of
transactions was 7 percent of the total number of titles distributed. Systematic data collection has taken



                                                      - 14 -

place only for two years since 2003/2004, and the two-year comparison is summarized in the table below.
Although two years is too short to validate the result, the table shows that the number of transactions has
increased. The annual increase of transactions recorded between 2003/2004 ­ 2004/2005 was 29 percent.
Without the project, there were no recorded land transactions. This shows that, gradually, a land market is
being developed and that beneficiaries are using their land titles as collateral for loans.

                                     2003/2004                    2004/2005                    % change
Sale transactions                      4,779                         6,147                        +29
registered
Mortgages registered                   3,271                         3,937                        +20
Inheritances registered                  212                           285                        +34
Other transactions                     8,747                        10,058                        +15
registered
Total transactions as a                 10.0                          7.0
percentage of total titles


4.2.37   Resource mobilization The resource mobilization indicators can be classified into two parts: (a)
annual taxes/fees collected by the government; and (b) credit disbursed to beneficiaries from banks using
land titles as collateral. While data for the first of these indicators is broadly available, data for the second
is not. It is recommended that the LTP II project management should make a follow-up on this credit
aspect for the monitoring and evaluation of the LTP II project. The table below shows good performance
in revenue collection. In 2004/2005, the annual revenue collected by the government is about 80 percent
higher than that projected in the SAR. The main components of this increase in land taxes are as follows.

                                 SAR Projection *           Collection 2004/2005              change ( %)
                                    (US$ million)               (US$ million)
Land tax                                1.28                          2.60                       +103
Subsequent registration                 0.69                          0.75                         +9
fees
Other fees                                -                           0.18                          -
Total                                   1.97                          3.53                        +79
* for Project Year 9 (2004/2005)

4.2.38   The table below shows the evolution of government revenue collected from the whole country
between 1995-2005. It is estimated with the project management that the project areas account for about
90 percent of the total. As the project started in 1996-1997, the year 1995-1996 can be assumed as the last
"without-project" year. The table clearly indicates that the project has had a good fiscal impact as
government revenue has increased more than ten-fold compared with the revenue collected in the
"without-project" period. Land tax and subsequent registration fees contributed about 74 percent and 21
percent, respectively, of the total. The project was instrumental in facilitating domestic resource
mobilization.




                                                       - 15 -

  Fiscal Year      Land Tax       Subsequent          Others        Total       Incremental* % change*
                                  Registration                                      Amount

                                                  (million Kip)
   1995/1996          2,216            749             182           3,147             -               -
   1996/1997          2,412            979             125           3,516           369              12
   1997/1998          2,887            852             143           3,882           735              23
   1998/1999           4809           1,865            343           7,017           3,870            123
   1999/2000          7,390           2,158            546          10,094           6,947            221
   2000/2001          16,744          3,153            856          20,753          17,606            559
   2001/2002          21,500          3,200            1,000        25,700          22,553            717
   2002/2003          24,023          4,273            1,625        29,921          26,774            851
   2003/2004          25,151          6,215            1,548        32,914          29,767            946
   2004/2005          27,624          7,845            1,881        37,350          34,203           1,087
* increment over the base year 1995/1996

In addition to the above revenue, the project has generated revenue to the Department of State Assets
(DSA). During the process of land adjudication, it became clear that some lands belong to the state and
therefore require the payment of rent or lease. In 2004/2005, the total revenue collected by DSA was
estimated at about 41 billion kips, of which about 20 percent (about 8.2 billion kip - US$780,000) was
reported to be generated as a result of the project.

4.2.39   Social and gender It has been frequently reported that social conflicts caused by unclear parcel
boundaries have been reduced substantially. However, there is no hard fact to substantiate this claim. As
an indicator, one possibility would be to collect and analyze the trend of the number of court cases
concerning land disputes. The land titling project as such could be seen as a process to exercise pressure
on owners to resolve their long-standing disputes on land. As the incentive to resolve their differences, they
will receive land title which can be used to generate additional financial benefits. Efforts by the project to
promote the involvement of and awareness among women through the Customer Relations and Services
(CRS) appear to have had a good impact. As a result, about 37 percent of distributed titles have been
registered under the names of women alone, compared to 21 percent registered under the names of men
alone.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1    At appraisal, no economic analysis was made of the project. The benefits of the project were
expected to flow from the issuance of land titles and other "outputs" of the project (e.g., aerial photomaps
and cadastral maps), the improved systems of land valuation and land information, and a land
administration service more accessible to the public and more efficient in its operations. These benefits do
not lend themselves to a conventional economic analysis; accordingly, no economic analysis has been made
for the ICR. The SAR stated that some benefits, for example the value of title as collateral for borrowing
and the value of the land itself, have been quantified through ex post socio-economic impact studies for
land titling projects in other countries (e.g., Thailand). The SAR for the LTP II included a cost:benefit
analysis that estimated benefits in terms of increased land values in the urban areas but excluded land
values in the peri-urban and rural areas. The SAR also drew attention to the socio-economic impact study
that was to have been carried out under the LTP and emphasized that the results of this study would
provide the data for econometric analysis to yield: (a) an ex post cost:benefit analysis for the LTP; and (b)



                                                      - 16 -

a consolidation of the ex ante cost:benefit analysis of the LTP II. However, as described above, no
socio-economic impact study has been carried out under the LTP. This is regrettable, and it is
recommended that attention should be given to this issue by the project management and IDA as soon as
possible. It would be a relatively simple task to design a representative sample frame to collect data on
project benefits, especially the value of land, and urban, peri-urban and rural areas should all be included


4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1    At appraisal, emphasis was placed on the potential increase in government revenues that could be
expected to result from the project. These incremental revenues would accrue from: (a) the transfer fees
from a higher number of recorded transactions and higher land values; (b) higher land tax collection as a
result of higher collection rates and more realistic assessments of land values; and (c) taxes on capital gains
from increased land values. In order to estimate potential revenue increases, a simple model was prepared
based on: the number of titles to be delivered, the cadastral fees and costs of title certificate to be levied, a
range of land values, a land tax rate, a collection rate for land taxes, a land transfer fee and an estimated
number of titled land parcel transactions.

4.4.2    By the last year, Year 9 (2004/2005), of the project, the model had estimated that the project total
annual gross revenue would be US$1.97 million, made up of land taxes (US$1.28 million) and subsequent
registration fees (US$0.69 million). The actual collection of revenue was comfortably higher than the
projection at US$3.53 million of which land taxes comprised US$2.6 million and subsequent registration
fees US$0.75 million.


4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1    Overall, the project has had a modest impact on institutional development. The project received
strong support aimed at remedying the weaknesses identified in the course of preparation, including several
constraints that were considered to be common factors in other land titling projects in the Region and
elsewhere. At the beginning of the project, the DOLHM had a staff of less than 20, of whom few had skills
relevant to the project; up to that point, the main purpose of the DOLHM had been the assessment and
collection of taxes. The pilot and bridging activities, the establishment of the Project Support Unit, the
appointment of an internationally-hired PA to support procurement, financial management, planning, and
monitoring and evaluation, and the use of long-term technical assistance, have all had an impact but have
not led quite to the institutional development and level of sustainability of DOL or of the PLOs that might
have been expected. By contrast, the institutional capability of the Lao Women's Union, the National
Geographic Department and the Polytechnic School have been measurably and significantly improved.

4.5.2    The limited institutional development achieved had multiple causes. The lack of a human resource
development strategy was associated with inadequate training, a modest level of education for many staff, a
shortage of qualified staff, and frequent transfers of staff. However, the DOL did establish a systematic
land parcel registration system and created the pool of skilled staff necessary to sustain it. The Valuation
Information System (VIS) was established in eleven Districts in five Provinces. The out-reach function
(the sub-component of Customer Relations and Services) was inadequate in the early years of the project to
cover the range of project activities, affected communities and beneficiaries; however, engaging the formal
support of the Lao Women's Union enabled a significant improvement in the dissemination of information
and a focus on protecting women's rights to land.




                                                     - 17 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1    The most important factor was the Asian economic crisis which contributed to the government's
difficulties in providing counterpart funds especially in the period 1997-1999. The DCA was amended in
April 1998 to check the escalation of government budgetary contributions to the project resulting from the
large depreciation of the domestic currency.

[N.B. The currency crisis in Thailand in 1997 and the ensuing negative economic effect on the region
affected Laos, but its problems were also in large part caused by domestic monetary and fiscal policies.
The loss of fiscal discipline that resulted from the government's financing of ambitious growth and
investment projects, particularly the construction of large irrigation projects in 1997-1998 to increase rice
production, provoked a steep inflation/depreciation spiral; inflation on a twelve-month basis peaked at 167
percent in early 1999 and by mid-1999 the domestic currency had lost 90 percent of its value over the
previous two-year period.]

5.1.2    The entry into effectiveness of the Credit was slightly delayed (it was signed on June 7, 1996, the
target effectiveness date was September 7, 1996 and the actual effectiveness date was February 27, 1997),
as a result of the revision of budgets implemented by the government of Australia following the federal
elections of March 2, 1966. The final approval by the government of Australia to cofinance the project
was given in November 1996. The consequent delay in signing the Memorandum of Subsidiary
Arrangements (MSA) between the governments of Laos and Australia delayed the effectiveness of the
Credit, the dead-line for which was extended twice by the IDA. The MSA was finally signed on February
6, 1997.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1    The project encountered several implementation problems in this category. There was an
inadequate supply of counterpart funds throughout the life of the project, and the timing of availability of
counterpart funds was frequently ill-matched to the requirements of expenditure patterns. There was a
shortage of suitably-qualified government staff to allow the formation of the PSU and the number of SATs
required according to the plans for expansion. In many areas, staff skills were inadequate and the issue of
sufficient training was continually debated with the government. The financial incentives to the members
of the SATs to undertake the necessary field work were originally low and impeded efforts to improve
"productivity" in land surveying and adjudication; this was resolved via the provision of adequate daily
allowances and other incentives. The complex procedures for approval and signing of land-use titles are
now being addressed under the LTP II with the expanded use of the LPRS. Early supervision reports
commented on the need of the PSU for more staff both to manage the project and to absorb the training
made available by the PA but stated that the budgetary resources were limited and that there was a hiring
freeze for government staff.

5.2.2    Information received by the ICR mission indicates that practices which were not in line with the
project procedures may have taken place during project implementation, especially in Vientiane
municipality. The motive force for these practices lies in the value of the titled land which exceeds by a
huge margin the fees that are paid by the land-owner to the DOL for the title and registration. Some SATs
reportedly demand and receive a share of this "economic rent" received by the newly-titled land owner.




                                                     - 18 -

5.2.3    The first indications of practices not in line with project procedures appear first to have arisen in
the record of the supervision mission of March/April 1998. The Aide Memoire and the subsequent
management letter refer obliquely to the fact that land titling " ... procedures may not have been followed
... " and to the need for systems to be developed " ... to ensure that occupiers of land are not unjustly
dispossessed ...". The recommendation was that " ... to improve strictness and transparency in the
implementation of land titling procedures, it is critical that: (i) internal project monitoring procedures
be strengthened and remedial action taken promptly when problems are identified; (ii) independent
technical audits be conducted ...; and (iii) in addition to administering an oath for members of
adjudication teams, the Project Director should issue an Order laying out staff rules and procedures for
land titling as well as penalties in cases of non-compliance ... ". [see paragraphs 4.2.2 - 24]

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1    The DOL faced a particular challenge at the beginning of project implementation. It had a staff of
under twenty people, and few had the skills necessary for the new project, the main function of the
Department being the assessment and collection of land taxes. The DOL has grown and developed under
the project

5.4 Costs and financing:


5.4.1    A comparative analysis of project costs at SAR and ICR is shown in Annex 2a, and the salient
features are summarized in the table below. The total project costs at ICR are estimated at US$ 20.51
million, or about 72 percent of the costs estimated at SAR (US$ 28.38 million). Analysis of the cost
structure reveals the following: (a) the cost of component "Land Titling" was less than 50 percent of the
SAR estimate; and (b) the cost of component "Institution Building" is more that 2.6 times that of the
estimate of the SAR.

Component                                              Cost estimate at        Actual        Actual cost as
                                                          appraisal             cost          percentage
                                                           US$000             US$000    of appraisal estimate
  A. Legal Framework                                           440                 48             10.9
  B. Land Titling                                          16,520               7,600             46.0
  C. Land Administration                                     2,468              2,483            100.6
  D. Land and Property Valuation                               790                 74               9.4
  E. Project Implementation and Capacity                     3,932             10,306            262.1
Building
  F. Studies                                                   550                -                 -
  Contingency provision                                      3,680                -                 -
  Total                                                    28,380              20,511             72.3



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1    The sustainability of the project, defined as the probability of its achievements being maintained in
relation to the objectives, is rated as likely. The project was defined in preparation as the first phase of a
long-term national land titling project. Its implementation over-lapped with the LTP II by two years; LTP
II was brought forward in order to take advantage of IDA funding that would no longer have been available
to Laos after the end of the (IDA) Fiscal Year 2003. Changes were introduced into the project during



                                                      - 19 -

implementation and other changes were introduced into the design of LPT II as pragmatic responses to the
evolution of the institutional structure and the experience gained in mapping, surveying and titling.

6.1.2    Before the project, the "first registration" of rights to land was undertaken sporadically, at the
request of the land-holder, and the ability to obtain registration was not uniformly available throughout the
country. It was a slow system and the cost precluded the participation of all but the wealthier land-holders.
The introduction of systematic registration has generated great interest in all of the communities in which it
has been introduced, and has raised the level of awareness of the need to participate in the formal system
mainly through "enlightened self-interest".

6.1.3    A strong basis for a sustainable LPRS has been introduced, and the legal and policy framework
(beginning with the Land Law) is fully supportive. Continuity of project activities is being provided by
LTP II and the support it is receiving from IDA and AusAID. However, the sustainability of a long-term
land titling program is critically dependent on the maintenance of strong project management and a
commitment to the development of human capital in what is essentially a "knowledge-based" piece of
economic infrastructure. This requires both an increased awareness and improved implementation of
human resource development, including staff selection and training.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:


6.2.1    A restructuring plan for DOL was prepared and implemented in the last two project years
(overlapping with LTP II). The borrower finished the integration of the Project Support Unit in
DOL at the central level and the integration of Project Facilitation Units in the LPOs at provincial
level. The activities initiated under the project will become a part of the regular operations of the
Planning and Finance Division of DOL, which ensures the sustainability of the achievements of the
project to a great extent. The project, and its successor the LTP II, created and continue to create
information data-bases in the form of mapping and surveying products and the details of land holdings and
land holders. To achieve this, significant physical and human resources are applied to specific
geographical areas for a limited period of time. The subsequent use and maintenance of these data-bases
becomes the responsibility of the implementing agencies, the DOL and the NGD at the national level and
the PLOs at the provincial level. The transition arrangement to regular operations consists of these
institutions being provided with the necessary budgetary and human resources to carry out their tasks and
to make instrumental the significant revenue-raising capability of the systems.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1    The performance of the IDA in ensuring quality at entry is considered to have been satisfactory;
there were minor shortcomings in identification, preparation and appraisal.

7.1.2    The project was identified in early 1993, with the government making initiatives to the IDA. The
Initial Executive Project Summary appeared in September 1994. Both the IDA and Australian
Development Assistance played an important role in preparing the Land Titling Project and in supporting
start-up activities in the period immediately before it was launched. The initial preparation of the project
began with an IDA-executed Japan PHRD grant that was signed in June 1994. The consulting firm BHP
Engineering Pty. Ltd. of Australia was selected to prepare the project in mid-1994; it began work in



                                                       - 20 -

November 1994 and presented the draft preparation report at the end of March 1995. The preparation
report was considered by IDA to be of very good quality, and the consulting firm responded quickly to IDA
requests for certain clarifications and changes.

7.1.3   In order to initiate certain activities in anticipation of the IDA credit, a Pilot Land Titling Project
was designed, and BHP was awarded a contract to assist the government to implement it. A trust fund
financed by the Australian International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB) in the amount of A$1.0
million was created to provide technical assistance for the Pilot Project. During the course of the Pilot
Project, the consultant provided concise and practical bi-weekly technical reports (a total of 42 reports) on
its progress that greatly assisted the IDA in monitoring the progress. Under the Pilot Project, a contract
was awarded to Kevron Lao Co. Ltd. to produce aerial photographs at a scale of 1:12,500 over an area of
360 km² between October and December of 1995 in the provinces of Pakxe, Savannakhet, Vientiane and
Luang Prabang. The first draft of the proposed new Land Law was produced in November 1995 by BHP
legal consultants and the Draft Land Law itself was issued on January 27, 1996. In addition, the legal
framework for systematic adjudication was prepared, the draft land registration decree was prepared, the
Land Valuation and the Human Resource Development reports were produced, and bidding documents for
major procurement activities were prepared.

7.1.4   In early 1996, the Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID, the successor to
AIDAB), provided a further A$290,000 of "bridging finance" to maintain the momentum gained by the
Pilot Project and to provide institutional support until the Land Titling Project itself could commence
operation with the Effectiveness of the Credit. This bridging project operated from February to August
1996. Following the federal elections in Australia in March 1996, a series of budget reviews meant that the
final decision concerning AusAID's participation in the Land Titling Project could not be taken until
August of that year; in order to maintain the momentum achieved by the pilot project, a second "bridging
project" was conceived to operate from August 1996 until March 1997 at a cost of US$409,500
contributed by AusAID. BHP consultants continued with this work under an amended contract through the
established trust fund. Major tasks at that point were the provision of legal assistance to review the draft
Land Law, continued support for systematic adjudication, the production of photomaps to support the first
year of the Land Titling Project and the provision of support to prepare for implementation of the mapping
component, support for the review of the Lao geodetic network, and further support on training and on the
land policy framework. Because of the delay in declaring the Credit effective, it was anticipated that the
key Technical Assistance under the project to be co-financed by AusAID could not be expected to be
mobilized and functioning before July, 1997. Accordingly, a third "bridging project" was funded by the
government of Australia for A$260,000 (to cover the expenditures anticipated by the consultant of
$201,570) and fulfill the requirements for continued technical support between April and June, 1997. The
consultants responsible for the implementation of the pilot project and its three extensions prepared a total
of 52 fortnightly reports.

7.1.5   In June, 1996 the consultants presented the draft final report on the Pilot Land Titling Project
which was considered by IDA to have been a success. The IDA made extensive comments on the report.
The DCA and the SAR included the commitment by the government to submit to the IDA a time-bound
Action Plan to implement the recommendations of the report on the basis of the lessons learned from the
pilot project.

7.1.6   Pilot project reports on training and on mapping and land adjudication plan. Geodetic network
report that commented on the multiple datums in existence for Laos and the need to unify them into a single
datum for the whole country to support the mapping component of the Land Titling Project.



                                                       - 21 -

7.1.7    The Final Executive Project Summary was reviewed in June 1995, and appraisal of the project was
approved. The main concerns at that time were that permanent institutional capacity should result from the
project and that there should be participation of stakeholders in the consideration of the design of the
project and its implementation arrangements. The low rate of parcel registration already being experienced
in the pilot phase of the project raised concerns about the need to make less onerous the documentary
evidence in deciding on land-use rights and the apparent high levels of back-taxes owed by many
land-holders that prevented them from registering (with its then-requirement of being up-to-date). The
ability of the main implementing agency to manage the project and to obtain and train the required number
of staff were recognized as constraints, and the use of a project management agent and staff seconded from
other public sector institutions and supplemented from the private sector were proposed.

7.1.8    In negotiating the credit, and in the light of experience with the pilot project, the IDA agreed to
extend the project implementation from five to seven years in order to achieve the target number of parcels
to be adjudicated and titled. Similarly, the concept contracting of systematic adjudication in the provinces
to the private sector was abandoned. The pilot project had also revealed that the NGD was unable in
practice to produce the required quality of photomaps that had been anticipated as a result of lack of
experience and inadequate equipment. The use of a private sector entity was agreed upon to work with the
NGD and produce maps during the first three years of the project, with the understanding that if NGD was
able to demonstrate after that period that it had acquired the capability, it would be provided with the
necessary equipment to do so.


7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1    The performance of the IDA is considered to have been satisfactory; there were minor
shortcomings in the identification of problems that presented themselves during implementation.

7.2.2    The DCA was dated June 7, 1996 and became effective on February 27, 1997. It was amended
three times. The first, on April 1, 1998 (in response to a supervision mission and Country Portfolio
Performance Review (CPPR) finding that pointed to the urgency of restructuring to deal with the financial
crisis and to introduce a change in project implementation method) introduced changes in the disbursement
percentages for Categories 4 and 5 and raised the aggregate procurement ceilings for goods purchased via
national competitive bidding, international shopping, and UN agencies, direct contracting and local
shopping. The second, on December 12, 2001, expanded the definition of the project area to include four
additional provinces (Khammouane, Bolikhamshay, Saravan and Sayaboury). The third, on September 9,
2002, reallocated the proceeds of the Credit between Categories, adjusted the financing percentages for
Categories 4 (land adjudication) and 7 (local training), and increased the procurement thresholds to allow
for more procurement by NCB, international shopping and local shopping.

7.2.3    The Closing Date of the Credit was extended in September 2003 for one year to allow completion
of civil works on six buildings and on land policy development work. Land titling activities continued to be
financed only until December 2003 in order to ensure a smooth transition to LTP II. The Closing Date was
again extended by one year in September 2004 to allow the continued work on land policy (that had
suffered a hiatus during the creation of the single National Land Management Authority, completed in May
2004) and training facilities considered necessary after the re-organization of the DOL.

7.2.4    The Second Land Titling Project (LTP II) was brought forward in the lending program in order to
utilize available IDA funds that would otherwise not have been available to Laos after FY2003. Several
changes were introduced into LTP II to reflect lessons learned in the implementation of the project.



                                                       - 22 -

7.2.5    The Technical Assistance provided to the project was satisfactory, particularly in the development
of the legal and policy frameworks and the establishment of the LPRS. In retrospect, more emphasis could
have been placed on: (a) seeking an improvement in the whole operation of the Land Offices, particularly in
the area of delivery of services; and (b) human resource development, especially training, to support the
long-term development of the land titling system. In addition, helping to build capacity in planning and
monitoring was neglected during the project, with the result that both DOL and the PLOs have significant
difficulties in preparing their work plans and budgets and in monitoring results.

7.2.6    The Mid-term Review (MTR) in October 1999 focused on two issues; the low levels of
productivity in terms of the number of titles produced by the individual SATs and the overall component,
and the inadequate and late contributions of counterpart funds by the government. IDA management
showed great concern at the outcome of the MTR, recording that "... the project had reached a break point
and required swift action to save it.". Immediate missions were sent to make clear to the government the
actions that were necessary for the project not to slide into "unsatisfactory" status. Since the project was
clearly at risk, in early 2000 the contingency of restructuring the project was proposed in the event that the
government failed to provide the adequate counterpart funds. Subsequently, it was considered that the
government had shown its commitment to the project by providing counterpart funds and making funds
available to the project provinces to meet their responsibilities. Implementation subsequently accelerated
and the number of titles issued increased significantly.

7.2.7    The IDA showed flexibility in helping to implement the project. The project was originally
designed with a five-year implementation period that was extended during negotiations for the credit to
seven years; two Closing Date extensions subsequently took the overall implementation period to eight
years and three months.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1    The overall performance of the IDA is rated as having been satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1    The Borrower's performance in project identification and preparation is considered to have been
satisfactory. The government identified the need for a land titling program in the early 1990s to address
key land-related issues that were seen as constraints to its efforts to open and reform the economy; these
included the need for systematic land administration, security of tenure, resolution of disputes and
increasing occupation of land. The Constitution of 1991 confirmed the rights of individuals to use land.
Assistance was sought to formalize and register land-use rights and to resolve conflicts over land
occupation as an important step in the development of fiscal revenues and land markets and to encourage
investment and economic growth. The preparation process actively involved the participation of the
principal implementing agency, DOLHM, and two workshops were held to discuss the project concept and
draft designs with representatives of national, provincial and district-level government agencies involved in
land management and administration.

7.4.2    Before negotiations for the Credit, the Foreign Aid Management Committee (of the Committee for
Planning and Cooperation) raised issues concerning the (apparently large) size of the proposed credit, the



                                                     - 23 -

over-emphasis that it felt was placed on technical assistance and on the proposed Project Management
Agent (subsequently the Project Administrator), and the possibility of waiting until the pilot project was
complete in order to incorporate its conclusions into project design.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1    The performance of the Borrower in implementing the project is considered to have been
moderately satisfactory. The government failed to provide adequate and timely counterpart funding, and
this was a major issue in the (government's) Fiscal Years 2003 and 2004. This directly affected the
achievement of targets, especially the number of land titles registered and the level of institutional
development achieved. There were inadequate numbers of government staff made available in the early
years for the formation of the SATs, but this limitation was later overcome through the use of contract
staff.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1    The performance of the DOL in implementing the project is considered to have been moderately
satisfactory.

7.6.2    The performance of the NGD in implementing the project is considered to have been moderately
satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


7.7.1    The overall performance of the Borrower is rated as having been moderately satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


8.1      From the preparation of the project, the initial Pilot Project stage and the implementation of the
project itself, a number of lessons can be drawn. Some of these had a direct bearing on the preparation of
the LTP II and are of wider interest for other projects and programs in Laos:

(a) The design and implementation of the project before the preparation of a long-term land titling program
means that both the government and the IDA were thinking and acting tactically but not strategically. The
preparation of a long-term program, providing a framework for the design of projects and other
interventions, would also provide the opportunity for stake-holders to discuss the broader issues concerning
land in Laos, including communal and traditional land-use rights (particularly in the upland areas) and the
policy of long-term leasing of state-owned land to private sector investors. A land titling program can be
expected to encompass a succession of projects. In this case, the project effectively made a start on a
number of key activities in anticipation of the preparation of a Land Titling Program which was not, in
fact, ever prepared. The Program should at the very least have been prepared in parallel with the project,
in such a way that the role of the project and its objectives could be understood in the wider context.

(b) The use of a preparation grant and a pilot project with bridging finance helped to develop continuity
and the early accumulation of practical experience in new techniques and practices where the legal, policy
and practical frameworks were at best ill-defined and at worst nonexistent.

(c) Wherever possible, the objectives of a project should be made as specific as possible and should be


                                                     - 24 -

defined in discrete and quantifiable terms. In this project, the stated objectives had more the characteristics
of "program goals" and were very qualitative. When a project is funded from two or more sources, it is
important to set the objectives and establish the implementation structure and policies clearly from the start
to avoid operational difficulties during implementation.

(d) It is essential to prepare a base-line study either as part of project preparation or as soon thereafter as
possible. Without such a study and its results, the definition of quantitative targets is made difficult and the
preparation of a monitoring and evaluation system impossible.

(e) The provision of counterpart funds in an adequate amount and a timely fashion is essential to effective
project implementation. The ramifications of inadequate counterpart funding extended to all aspects of
implementation and carried over from one project year to another. The standard language of legal
agreements concerning the provision of counterpart funds is clearly inadequate as a useful tool.

(f) Where significant change and growth is required in public sector institutions as a necessary condition
for project or program success, a careful and pragmatic strategy of institutional development is required
including the requirements for development and training of human resources. The capacity of DOL to plan
and to manage resources to meet the project timetable was consistently over-estimated. In general terms,
the skills of staff under the project remained relatively low because of inadequate training. Institutional
development faces many obstacles, including internal resistance to change and inertia; in the project, the
DOL and the DSA (within the same Ministry) did not integrate their registration systems (for
individually-held land and state-held land, respectively) which remain separate to this day.

(g) The use of modern technology (for example, digital orthophoto maps, GPS and advanced information
technology) in projects of this kind is clearly superior to, and more efficient than, older techniques. The
introduction of such technology in the project required greater attention than anticipated. The use of
relatively sophisticated survey equipment and information technology requires that special attention be
budgeted for maintenance and for the rotation of damaged equipment.

(h) The indications of malpractices in the implementation of the project lead to the conclusion that other
projects under implementation, and particularly the LTP II, should be subjected to an in-depth review. The
LTP II should also be "retrofitted" with a mechanism to address these practices, which could include
(among other measures) information on how concerned stakeholders may make confidential complaints to
the Department of Institutional Integrity of the World Bank Group and the establishment of a formal
complaint mechanism, third party monitoring of the project and independent technical audits.

(i) Eight studies were identified in appraisal as being necessary to the efficient implementation of the
project or the preparation of the (proposed) underlying land titling program. The studies were either
delayed in their start-up or, in some cases, never begun. If studies are considered at appraisal to be
important, their preparation should be pursued energetically during project implementation.

(j) The experience of the project demonstrates the importance of out-reach activities (in this case, the CRS
sub-component) where significant changes in "culture" or traditional practices are concerned. The
participation of communities, their individual members and their leadership in making land-holders aware
of the benefits of participation in the project, as well as their rights and obligations with respect to land
management and taxation, became of increasingly obvious importance after the early stages of
implementation.

(k) The creation of a complete land administration system is an enormous undertaking that must be


                                                      - 25 -

expected to take decades to achieve. It requires strong government commitment and a gradual shift in the
social and cultural awareness of diverse groups concerning the importance of rules, regulations and laws as
they affect titling, registration, the resolution of disputes and tax obligations.

(l) In addition to the AusAID-funded TA, which focused primarily on the technical and institutional
aspects, other TAs were also required and were funded by the IDA Credit to assist the project management
in the PSU and PFUs. The resulting two groups of TA, with different mandates and funded from separate
sources, were somewhat counter-productive. It is considered appropriate to design the TA as one coherent
group to support the project management.

(m) Surveying equipment was procured early in the project from one manufacturer, and a large training
effort was carried out to enable staff to use it properly. Later, a second procurement exercise led to a
different manufacturer; this caused significant delay in project implementation and some frustration among
staff, because the two systems were not compatible and staff require training and re-training with the new
equipment. The effort involved in bringing a second type of equipment and its supporting soft-ware into
use, and the inefficiencies inherent in using two systems in parallel, probably far out-weighed the difference
in acquisition costs. In this project, a strong case could have been made for standardizing on one
manufacturer when additional equipment was required to be purchased.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


9.1      A summary of the Completion Report prepared by the Borrower is presented in Additional Annex
9.

9.2      The DOL confirmed its accordance with the issues, findings and lessons learned in this ICR.


(b) Cofinanciers:


9.2      The comments on this ICR provided by the project's co-financier, AusAID, are shown in
Annex 10. AusAID also prepared a Completion Report on its involvement in the project in September
2003 at the time of the original Closing Date of the Credit and at the commencement of LTP II (the "second
phase" of the project), a copy of which is in the project files.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

9.3      There were no other partners involved in the implementation of the project.


10. Additional Information




                                                        - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                             1
                 Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                              Projected at Appraisal
A. Land Market and Tenure Security:
Number of sale transactions registered,       not specified                                           6,147
2004-5
Number of mortgages registered, 2004-5        not specified                                           3,937
Number of inheritances registered, 2004-5     not specified                                             285
Other transactions registered, 2004-5         not specified                                          10,058
Total transactions as % of total titles       not specified                                                7
distributed
B. Resource Mobilization:
Annual tax and fees collected, 2004-5 [1]                     1.97                                     3.53
(US$ million), of which:
     - land taxes                                             1.28                                     2.60
     - subsequent registration fees                           0.69                                     0.75
     - others                                                   -                                      0.18

Annual bank credit disbursed using title [2]: not specified                                       US$36.5 million
- agriculture                                                                                     US$1.2 million
- services                                                                                        US$31.00 million
- other                                                                                           US$4.3 million
C. Social and Gender:
- conflict reduction                          not specified                                       data not available
- titles registered in women's names as a     not specified                                              37
percentage of the total titles awarded
D. Income from Land Rental and other [3]
- land rental                                 not specified                                       US$22.4 million
 - surveying fees and other income            not specified                                       US$6.30 million

1. for the whole country: project provinces are estimated to account for 90 percent of the total.
2. data from 1988-2005; annual data are unavailable
3. Department of State Assets: data for 1994-2005




                                                               - 27 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                      1
                Indicator/Matrix                Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      Projected at Appraisal/Revised
A. Land Titling:
number of parcels surveyed                        323,100/200,000                      190,656
number of parcels registered                      323,100/200,000                      151,777
number of titles distributed                      258,480/144,000                      122,934

B. Buildings:
NGD building renovation                                  1/2                                   2
NGD building extension                                   1/0                                   0
DOL office building                                  not specified                             1
Provincial Land Office building                          5/9                                   9

C. Base Mapping:
aerial photography
 - 1:5,500                                           51,000 ha                   data not available
 - 1:12,500                                        415,000 ha                    data not available
map production
 - 1:1,000                                           43,400 ha                           20,600
 - 1:2,000                                              -                                13,700
 - 1:4,000                                         184,000 ha                          855,600

D. Institutional and Staffing
Systematic Adjudication Teams                        19/22                                    22
total SAT staff                                      456                                    660
DOL staff                                          ot specified            66 (34 government/32 contractors)
PSU staff                                                13                19 (9 government/10 contractors)
Provincial Facilitation Unit staff                       20                                   47
valuation staff                                          18                                   20
E. Local Training:
adjudication                                    496 person-months                 56 person-months
training of trainers                              24 person-months                99 person-months
local officials                                   64 person-months
F. Technical Assistance and Overseas
Training
foreign advisors                                216 person-months                224 person-months
national advisors                               296 person-months                428 person-months
fellowships                                     306 person-months                257 person-months
short-term training                             107 person-months                 data not available
G. Studies
fees and cost recovery                             6 person-months                   not carried out
community land tenure                              6 person-months                   not carried out
forest boundary definition                         6 person-months                   completed
nationalized lands                                 6 person-months                   not carried out
socio-economic base-line                         15 person-months                    completed

1End of project




                                                        - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
A. Legal and Policy Framework                                0.44            0.05           10.91
B. Land Titling:
1. Base Mapping                                              5.56            1.97            35.4
2. Systematic Adjudication                                   9.53            4.82           50.56
3. Sporadic Adjudication                                     0.58            0.48           83.45
4. Training for Accelerated Land Titling                     0.19            0.15           80.53
5. Customer Relations Services                               0.66            0.18           26.82
C. Land Administration                                       2.47            2.48           100.6
D. Land and Property Valuation                               0.79            0.07            9.37
E. Project Implementation and Capacity Building              3.93          10.31           262.11
F. Studies                                                   0.55

Total Baseline Cost                                         24.70          20.51
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.15
 Price Contingencies                                         3.53
                        Total Project Costs                 28.38          20.51
                  Total Financing Required                  28.38          20.51


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.45              0.41         0.00         0.00          0.86
                                  (0.39)           (0.35)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.74)
2. Goods                          2.77              0.57         0.31         0.00          3.65
                                  (2.26)           (0.51)      (0.28)         (0.00)       (3.05)
3. Services                       5.02              0.00         2.55         5.06         12.63
                                  (4.65)           (0.00)      (2.55)         (0.00)       (7.20)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.32         0.00          0.32
Recurrent Costs                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.22)         (0.00)       (0.22)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00        10.60         0.00         10.60
Land Adjudication                 (0.00)           (0.00)      (9.24)         (0.00)       (9.24)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.32         0.00          0.32
Local Training                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.28)         (0.00)       (0.28)


   Total                          8.24              0.98        14.10         5.06         28.38
                                  (7.30)           (0.86)      (12.57)        (0.00)      (20.73)




                                                - 29 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                              0.00                2.48               0.24            0.00              2.72
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                              1.56                0.22               1.99            0.00              3.77
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
3. Services                           1.55                0.00               2.28            5.99              9.82
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00                0.00               0.16            0.00              0.16
Recurrent Costs                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00                0.00               3.63            0.00              3.63
Land Adjudication                     (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00                0.00               0.41            0.00              0.41
Local Training                        (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)


   Total                              3.11                2.70               8.71            5.99              20.51
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
  managing the project.




                                                     - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


At appraisal, no economic analysis of the project was carried out. Emphasis was placed on the potential
increase in government revenues that could be expected to result from the project. These incremental
revenues would accrue from: (a) the transfer fees from a higher number of recorded transactions and higher
land values; (b) higher land tax collection as a result of higher collection rates and more realistic
assessments of land values; and (c) taxes on capital gains from increased land values. In order to estimate
potential revenue increases, a simple model was prepared based on: the number of titles to be delivered, the
cadastral fees and costs of title certificate to be levied, a range of land values, a land tax rate, a collection
rate for land taxes, a land transfer fee and an estimated number of titled land parcel transactions.

By the last year, Year 9 (2004/2005), of the project, the model had estimated that the project total annual
gross revenue would be US$1.97 million, made up of land taxes (US$1.28 million) and subsequent
registration fees (US$0.69 million). The actual collection of revenue was comfortably higher than the
projection at US$3.53 million of which land taxes comprised US$2.6 million and subsequent registarion
fees US$0.75 million.



                                 SAR Projection *            Collection 2004/2005            change ( %)
                                    (US$ million)                (US$ million)
 Land tax                                 1.28                        2.60                        +103
 Subsequent registration                  0.69                        0.75                          +9
fees
 Other fees                                -                          0.18                           -
 Total                                    1.97                        3.53                         +79
* for Project Year 9 (2004/2005)


The table below shows the evolution of government revenue collected from the whole country between
1995-2005. It is estimated with the project management that the project areas account for about 90 percent
of the total. As the project started in 1996-1997, the year 1995-1996 can be assumed as the last
"without-project" year. The table clearly indicates that the project has had a good fiscal impact as
government revenue has increased more than ten-fold compared with the revenue collected in the
"without-project" period. Land tax and subsequent registration fees contributed about 74 percent and 21
percent, respectively, of the total. The project was instrumental in facilitating domestic resource
mobilization.




                                                       - 31 -

  Fiscal Year      Land Tax      Subsequent         Others         Total       Incremental* % change*
                                 Registration                                    Amount

                                                 (million Kip)
   1995/1996          2,216            749             182          3,147             -            -
   1996/1997          2,412            979             125          3,516             369           12
   1997/1998          2,887            852             143          3,882             735           23
   1998/1999          4,809          1,865             343          7,017           3,870          123
   1999/2000          7,390          2,158             546         10,094           6,947          221
   2000/2001         16,744          3,153             856         20,753          17,606          559
   2001/2002         21,500          3,200          1,000          25,700          22,553          717
   2002/2003         24,023          4,273          1,625          29,921          26,774          851
   2003/2004         25,151          6,215          1,548          32,914          29,767          946
   2004/2005         27,624          7,845          1,881          37,350          34,203        1,087
* increment over the base year 1995/1996

In addition to the above revenue, the project has generated revenue to the Department of State Assets
(DSA). During the process of land adjudication, it became clear that some lands belong to the state and
therefore require the payment of rent or lease. In 2004/2005, the total revenue collected by DSA was
estimated at about 41 billion kips, of which about 20 percent (about 8.2 billion kip - US$780,000) was
reported to be generated as a result of the project.




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              April 30, 1993              1    Senior Economist
              July 18, 1993               1    Senior Economist
              January                     4    Preparation mission:
              31-February 9,                   Senior Economist (TM), Civil
              1995                             Engineer, Economist, and Land
                                               Administration Specialist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              May 3-13, 1995              5    Pre-appraisal mission:
                                               Senior Economist (TM),
                                               Civil Engineer, Procurement
                                               Specialist, Economist, and
                                               Land Administration
                                               Specialist
              June 28-July 9,             8    Appraisal mission:
              1995                             Senior Economist (TM),
                                               Economists (2), Civil Engineer,
                                               Procurement Specialist, Land
                                               Administration Specialist, Land
                                               Valuation Specialist, and
                                               AusAID Representative
              January 8-18,1996                Negotiations (in Vientiane):
                                               Senior Economist (Head), Senior
                                               Legal Counsel, Liaison Officer,
                                               and Economist (FAO/CP)

 Supervision
              May 16, 1996                4    Senior Economist, Civil
                                               Engineer, Economist, and
                                               Land Administration
                                               Specilaist.
              October 19, 1996            5    Economist, Senior Economist,         S               S
                                               Land Administration Specialist,
                                               Land Valuation Specialist, and
                                               Civil Engineer.
              July 24-August 2,           4    Senior Economist, Land               S               S
              1997                             Valuation Specialist, Land
                                               Administration Specialist, and
                                               Economist.
              March 21-April 1,           4    Senior Economist, Property           S               S
              1998                             Valuation Specialist, Land
                                               Administration Specialist, and
                                               Economist. There were also
                                               three participants from AusAID.
              October 5-13, 1998          4    Civil Engineer, Economist, Land      S               S
                                               Administration Specialist, and



                                                - 33 -

                         Land Tenure Specialist.
April 1-8, 1999       6  Environmental Engineer,             S    S
                         Economist, Land Administration
                         Specialist, Property Valuation
                         Specialist, Land Tenure
                         Specialist, and Operations
                         Officer
October 1-15, 1999    5  Mid-Term Review:                    S    S
                         Task Team Leader, Finance
                         Sector Specialist, Economist,
                         Land Administration Specialist,
                         Land Tenure Specialist
May 27-June 6,        4  Task Team Leader, Financial         S    S
2000                     Management Specialist, Land
                         Administration Specialist, and
                         Land Registration Specialist
April 29-May 8,       10 Task Team Leader, Participation     S    S
2001                     Officer, Financial Management
                         Specialist, Consultant Economist
                         FAO/CP, Consultant Land
                         Administration FAO/CP,
                         Consultant Institutional
                         Development AUSAID,
                         Consultant Land Tenure
                         AUSAID, Consultant Australian
                         Embassy, Program Officer
                         AusAID, and Chief of Resident
                         Mission
October 11-19,        9  Task Team Leader,                   S    S
2001                     Anthropologist, Procurement
                         Assistant, Economist FAO/CP,
                         Country Program Officer
                         AusAID, Institutional
                         Development Officer AusAID,
                         Land Tenure Specialist AusAID,
                         Program Officer AusAID, and
                         representaitive of the Australian
                         Embassy
May 2-10, 2002        11 Task Team Leader,                   S    S
                         Anthropologist, Financial
                         Management Specialist,
                         Procurement Assistant, Land
                         Policy Consultant, Land
                         Information Consultant,
                         Economist Consultant, Country
                         Program Manager, Institutional
                         Development Advisor,
                         Community Development
                         Advisor, and Program Officer
October 14-21,        9  Task Team Leader, Legal             S    S
2002                     Counsel, Agricultural Economist,
                         Land Administration Consultant,
                         Financial Management



                         - 34 -

                                             Specialist, Procurement
                                             Assistant, Land Policy
                                             Consultant, Institutional
                                             Development Advisor, and
                                             Program Officer AusAID
               April 28-May 5,         14    Task Team Leader, Sector            S    S
               2003                          Leader, Agricultural Economist,
                                             Gender Specialist, Legal
                                             Counsel, Consultants (2),
                                             Financial Management
                                             Specialist, Procurement
                                             Specialist, Procurement
                                             Assistant, and Representatives of
                                             AusAID (4)
               February 18-25,           7   Task Team Leader, Land              S    S
               2004                          Specialist, Gender Specialist,
                                             Land Administration Specialist,
                                             Financial Management
                                             Specialist, Procurement
                                             Specialist, and Operations
                                             Officer
               July 13-20, 2004          6   Task Team Leader, Land              S    S
                                             Administration Specialist,
                                             Procurement Specialist, Financial
                                             Management Specialist,
                                             Operations Officer, and
                                             Procurement Officer
               October 25-26,            4   Task Team Leader , Operations       S    S
               2004                          Officer, and Representative of
                                             AusAID

 ICR
               November 10-25,          4     Agricultural Economist,            S    S
               2005                           Economist (FAO/CP),
                                              Agricultural Economist, and
                                              Rural Development Officer



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                   No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                           126.581
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                          321.283
  ICR                                                                   48.589
  Total                                                                496.453




                                              - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Final Report of the Social Assessment for the six served provinces and two unserved provinces of the
Lao PDR Land Titling Project, March 2003

2. Financial Monthly Reports, DOL Finance Section

3. Report on Land Valuation, BHP, January 31, 1996

4. Land Titling Project (Cr. No. 2832-LA) Implementation Completion Report (Borrower's Perspective),
October 2005

5. Project Completion Report: Land Administration Project in Lao PDR, AusAID, September 2003

6. Initial and Final Executive Project Summaries

7. Supervision Reports

8. Fortnightly Reports of the Consultants (BHP) under the Pilot Land Titling Project




                                                   - 38 -

Additional Annex 8. Compliance with DCA Conditions


DCA Reference          Condition                                               Action Taken
Section 3.01 (a)       The Borrower shall carry out Part B 1 (a) of the        Complied with
                       Project through the National Geographic
Implementation of the  Department (NGD) and the remainder of the Project
Project                through the Department of Lands and Housing
                       Management (DOLHM).
Section 3.01(b)        The Borrower shall carry out the project in             Partially complied with
                       accordance with the Project Implementation Plan in
Project Implementation Schedule 4.
Plan
Section 3.02 (a)       The Borrower shall ensure that the MOF and the          The "no objection" of IDA was given in
                       NGD enter into a Memorandum of Understanding to December 1996 after a series of drafts was
Memorandum of          carry out Part B (1) (a) of the Project.                reviewed, and the MOU was signed on
Understanding                                                                  February 13, 1997.
Section 3.03           The Borrower shall, not later than September 30,        The PA was hired and present in Vientiane
                       1996, employ a Project Administrator (PA) for the       in June 1997 (last quarter of FY1996). The
Project Administrator  Fiscal Years 1996-1999.                                 PA contract concluded in July 1999.
Section 3.05           The Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1997, Complied with. On June 22, 1998, three
                       issue the regulations to the Decrees that set forth the main Regulations were signed by the
Regulations            specific requirements and procedures for the            Minister of Finance on (a) systematic land
                       issuance, registration, adjudication and                adjudication; (b) sporadic land
                       enforceability of land transfer, occupancy and use      adjudication; and (c) the Land Parcel
                       rights.                                                 Registration System.
Section 3.06 (a)       The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,         The mid-term review was carried out in
                       1999 and on the basis of acceptable terms of            October 1999. The National Land Titling
Mid-Term Review        reference, carry out a comprehensive mid-term           Program was not prepared.
                       review of the progress achieved in carrying out the
                       Project and in developing and implementing its
                       national land titling program.
Section 3.06 (b)       Promptly after the review, and taking into account      The mid-term review identified a number
                       the IDA's recommendations, the Borrower shall take of serious issues that threatened the
Post-Review Actions    all actions necessary to achieve the objectives of the  project's successful outcome. The
                       Project and further develop and implement its           government took action to increase the
                       national land titling program.                          productivity of SATs and to increase
                                                                               counterpart funding, but both remained
                                                                               issues throughout most of the project's life.
Section 3.07           Not later than six months after the Closing Date of     The plan is an appendix to the Borrower's
                       the Credit, the Borrower shall prepare and send to      ICR dated October 2005.
Plan for the Future    the IDA a plan for the future operation of the
Operation of the       Project.
Project
Section 4.01           The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts to Complied with.
                       reflect the expenditures of the Project, have the
Financial Covenants    records properly audited and send a copy of the audit
                       report to the IDA within six months of the end of
                       each fiscal year.
Schedule 4, Part A 1   The Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project Complied with.
                       Support Unit (PSU) to be responsible for the general




                                                       - 39 -

Project Support Unit oversight of the Project and its supervision,
                     management and coordination, and the Unit shall at
                     all times be headed by a qualified project manager
Schedule 4, Part A 2 The Borrower shall at all times maintain the           Partially complied with. The
                     DOHLM with satisfactory staffing, resources and        macroeconomic crisis in 1997 and 1998
Department of Lands  funds, and ensure that it has policies and procedures caused problems with the provision of
and Housing          to monitor evaluate progress achieved in               counterpart funding and adequate staffing.
Management           implementing the project and achieving its
                     objectives.
Schedule 4, Part A 3 The Borrower shall take actions necessary to ensure Complied with.
                     that the National Geographic Department carries out
National Geographic  the aerial photography and mapping activities in
Department           accordance with the Memorandum of
                     Understanding.
Schedule 4, Part A 4 The Borrower shall, not later than September 1,        The PSC was established and held its first
                     1966, establish and maintain until project             meeting in October 1997.
Project Steering     completion a Project Steering Committee (PSC): (i)
Committee            to provide policy guidance to the PSU; (ii) to review
                     work plans and progress reports; (iii) to liaise
                     between the PSU and the Land Re-Management
                     Committee (LRMC) and recommend necessary
                     changes in land management policies; and (iv) to
                     coordinate between central and provincial
                     government agencies involved in Project
                     implementation.
Schedule 4, Part A 5 The Borrower shall, not later than October 15, 1996, Complied with.
                     establish and maintain until project completion a
Project Oversight    Project Oversight Committee in each Project
Committee            province, to be responsible for: (i) reviewing annual
                     provincial work plans, budgets, and progress reports
                     prior to their submission to the PSU and approval by
                     the PSC; (ii) coordinating provincial government
                     agencies involved in Project implementation; and
                     (iii) reporting through the PSC on any issues which
                     might affect Project implementation or the
                     achievement of the Project's objectives.
Schedule 4, Part A 6 The Borrower shall, not later than October 15, 1996, The PPFUs were established in step with
                     establish and thereafter maintain in Vientiane and in the actual expansion of the project to the
Provincial Project   each Project Province a Provincial Project             provinces.
Facilitation Units   Facilitation Unit (PPFU) to be responsible for
                     assisting the PSU in managing the Project at the
                     provincial level.
Schedule 4, Part A 7 The Borrower shall ensure that the Department of       Complied with.
                     State Assets shall assist in the implementation of the
Department of State  Project activities related to land valuation and state
Assets               land management.
Schedule 4, Part B 1 The Borrower through the PSU shall: (i) submit to      Complied with.
                     IDA by May 31 and November 30 of each year a
Project Progress     semi-annual Progress Report on Project
Reports and Reviews  implementation; (ii) organize and carry out joint
                     annual project review meetings, and prepare an
                     annual Progress Report on implementation; and (iii)
                     prepare and implement a follow-up time-based



                                                     - 40 -

                     action plan designed to remedy any deficiencies in
                     the Project identified during the review.
Schedule 4, Part C 1 The Borrower shall, not later than November 30,      Partially complied with. TORs were
                     1996, send to the IDA the Terms of Reference         presented by the government to IDA
Studies              (TORs) and a time-bound action plan for carrying     in final draft for approval in June
                     out each of the studies referred to in Part E of     1998 and the "no objection"
                     Schedule 2 (Description of the Project)*.            provided. The originally defined
                     Once approved, the Borrower shall promptly carry     eight studies were reduced to five
                     out each study and send to the IDA the draft report and then to three, which were
                     and a work plan and budget for implementing its      carried out.
                     recommendations. Once approved by the IDA, the
                     Borrower shall implement the recommendations.

                     [*N.B. This is Component F as shown in the SAR.]
Schedule 4, Part C 2 The Borrower shall, not later than August 31 each     Complied with
                     year, beginning in Fiscal Year 1996, send to the IDA
Studies and Training the proposed programs and related budgets for
                     training for the immediately following Fiscal Year
                     and, once approval is received, implement the
                     training activities.
Schedule 4, Part D 1 The Borrower shall, not later than September 30,      Not complied with.
                     1996: (i) send to the IDA for its approval the
Operational Trials   proposed time-bound action plan for implementing
                     the lessons learned and recommendations derived
                     from the results of the project preparation
                     operational trials* undertaken prior to Credit
                     effectiveness; and (ii) with IDA approval,
                     immediately implement the ecommendations.

                     * i.e., the Pilot Project and its three extensions.




                                                       - 41 -

Additional Annex 9 Precis of the Borrower's Completion Report

9.1 Introduction


9.1.1     The government initiated the concept of a Land Titling Program in the early 1990s to address
issues related to land administration, land security, land disputes and increasing land occupation.
Assistance was sought to formalize and register land ownership as a means of also encouraging investment
and encouraging economic growth. The Land Titling Project (LTP) was intended to resolve the chaos and
conflict of multiple claims to parcels, to rationalize the land market, and to develop a base for increasing
government revenue.


9.1.2     Following an identification mission in 1994, the World Bank and AusAID worked with the Lao
Government in a pilot project to change the standards of evidence to fit the Lao situation and to develop the
legal framework that would enable the commencement of systematic land titling in urban areas. A second
pilot project commenced in 1995 for two years to test the proposed new titling requirements and was able
to title about 80 percent of the parcels, which was commensurate with systematic titling rates in Thailand.

9.1.3     The overall goal of the project was to strengthen the basis for long term sustainable economic and
social development. In conformity with this goal, the objectives of the LTP were to foster the development
of efficient land markets and to facilitate domestic resource mobilization by providing a system of clear and
enforceable land use ownership rights, and by developing a land valuation capacity.

9.2 Project Components and Description


9.2.1     The project was to support the first seven years of a longer term national land titling program
aimed at extending secure land ownership rights and developing land administration and valuation systems,
including compiling cadastral mapping system. The components of the project were:
    (a) Completion of the policy and legal framework for land management and administration;
    (b) Implementation of an acceleration land titling program, including base mapping, systematic
    registration and sporadic registration;
    (c) Improvements in the infrastructure, facilities and systems for land administration;
    (d) Improvement in land valuation;
    (e) Support for project management and implementation, and institutional strengthening; and
    (f) Studies on community land tenure and registration, definition of forest boundaries, cost recovery,
    land rights issues on nationalized lands and socio-economic impact of the land titling.

9.2.2     The project aimed at surveying and adjudicating about 322,900 parcels, including 300,000 parcels
through 19 Systematic Adjudication Teams (SATs) and 22,900 parcels through sporadic adjudication, and
registering of about 258,320 titles (80 percent of those surveyed and adjudicated).

9.2.3     To support the land titling program, land policy and legal framework were to be developed and
modified, aerial photography, base maps, training in support of systematic and sporadic adjudication and
customer relations and services (CRS) were to be provided under the project. CRS was to be undertaken to
ensure that land occupiers and other people involved in the project had the necessary information to
effectively participate in the land titling program. In addition, the project was to develop a land
administration system to improve efficiency and services delivery, ensure security of land records and
sustain the land titling program after project completion. An internationally accepted valuation standards



                                                      - 42 -

was to be developed along with the development of land registration system.


9.2.4   The systematic titling program was to be undertaken in Vientiane Capital City, and in the urban
and peri-urban areas of four provinces of Luangprabang, Vientiane, Savannakhet and Champasack. The
sporadic titling program, which involved issuance of titles on a demand basis, was to start initially in three
provinces, where there was potential high demand. Specific provinces to be covered by sporadic titling
were to be selected annually by the Project Steering Committee (PSC) as part of the approval process for
the annual work plan and budget.

9.3 Project Staffing and Institutional Arrangements

9.3.1   The project was to be implemented by DOL except the production of base maps which was to be
carried out by the National Geographic Department (NGD). The Director General of DOL was to be the
Project Director (PD) with a Project Support Unit (PSU). In addition, the PD would contract the services
of a Project Administrator (PA) to assist in managing the project during its initial years.

9.3.2   At the provincial level, the project was to be implemented through Provincial Land Offices (PLO),
in the Division of Finance, supported by a Project Facilitation Unit (PFU) in each PLO. At the national
level, overall project supervision and coordination, including approval of annual work plan and budget and
review of semi-annual progress reports, was to be responsible by PSC. At the provincial level, a Project
Oversight Committee was to be appointed in each project province with the responsibilities of project
supervision and coordination, including approval of annual work plan and budget and review of
semi-annual progress reports in the province.

9.4 Achievements of Project Development Objectives

9.4.1   Project objectives were clear and fitted well within the Government's overall national policy of
sustaining economic growth, which was a necessary condition for poverty alleviation. The pilot project
was considered essential and instrumental to the Lao PDR, where land administration activities and the
necessary legal framework were not well established in the country and there was also the need to develop
confidence and skills in commencing the LTP. Therefore, the design and scope of the LTP were adequate
and implementation of five years was considered realistic to enable the Government gradually to gain
experience in implementing the project. The project was extended by an additional two years mainly to
enable the completion of the office building of DOL, the construction of provincial land office buildings
and the procurement of survey equipment.


9.4.2   LTP was signed in June 1996. However, the Credit did not became effective until around
mid-1997. Delay in effectiveness was due to a delay of nine months in the approval and mobilization of the
required technical assistance. While the objectives of the development of a legal framework was fully
achieved the objectives of long-term sustainable land administration systems (systematic adjudication and
land registration systems), building institutional capacity and accelerating land titling were only partially
achieved.

9.5 Achievements of Project Outputs

9.5.1   The government considered the project very successful in the development of the legal and
regulatory framework. The Land Law was promulgated in 1997 and several Prime Minister's Decrees,
Ministerial and Departmental regulations and instructions were issued; these laid down solid legal and



                                                     - 43 -

systematic land adjudication and registration framework for land administration in Lao PDR.

9.5.2    The project was, however, less successful in building institutional capacity of the DOL and the
PLOs for sustainable land administration, while the land titling achievements fell short of expectations.
The former was due to lack of adequate training and low educational base of staff, weak project
management at both the DOL and PLOs, particularly in land registration, land valuation, financial
management, procurement, and planning and monitoring. Shortage of qualified staff and frequent transfers
were additional reasons. In addition, there was neither a Human Resource Development (HRD) strategy
nor a long-term training program.

9.5.3    The outputs of land titling fell short of the targets. However, DOL has successfully established a
systematic land adjudication and registration, built skills of about 660 adjudication staff to sustain the
long-term Land Titling Program. The productivity of adjudication was still low at 3 parcels per sub-team
per day, considering low compared with international standards.

9.5.4    The implementation of the land registration system was still limited due to its cumbersome
procedures and un-transparency and inadequate CRS. Similarly, the Valuation Information System (VIS)
was developed to support only 11 districts in five provinces (Vientiane Capital City, Luangprabang,
Savannakhet, Champasack Province and Khammuane) due to inadequate experienced and severe shortage
of valuation staff at DOL headquarters.

9.5.5    A total of 190,465 land parcels were surveyed and adjudicated, 59 percent of the appraisal targets
of 322,900 parcels but 95 percent of DOL's revised targets of 200,000 parcels. This was due to lack of
counterpart funds from 1997-1999; unavailability of Government staff to join the adjudication teams in the
earlier project years, and low financial incentives as well as bottlenecks in technical procedures. However,
performance of the project significantly improved from PY6 on; the number of titles issued in PY6
exceeded the total number of titles issued from PY1-5. Another serious problem was low distribution of
titles, 50 percent of total parcels adjudicated. DOL should have imposed and implemented measures to
accelerate titles distribution otherwise these investments will become sunk cost and the expected
Government's revenues lost.

9.5.6    Other project outputs were: (a) aerial photography; (b) construction of DOL and nine provincial
land offices; (c) incremental DOL, PSU and PFUs staff; (d) technical and management trainings; and (e)
studies including project mid-term review including social assessment, land tenure study and
socio-economic baseline surveys.

9.5.7    Staff increased by 92% to 771 at the end of the project from 401 at project appraisal. Incremental
staff included 33 in PSU, 51 in PFUs, 660 in 22 SATs and 27 in DOL and district valuation units.


9.5.8    Customer relations and services (CRS) was initially inadequate and did not cover the whole range
of project activities, communities and beneficiaries. However, engaging the support of the Lao Women's
Union enabled information dissemination to be improved and for the project to provide a clear focus on
protecting women's rights to land. Initial deficiencies in Customer Relations and Services effectiveness and
protecting women's rights to land were identified early in the project. To assist in addressing these
deficiencies a formal relationship was developed with the Lao Women's Union (LWU) to assist with the
conducting of village meetings and in providing better information on gender issues. Specific women only
meetings were also developed so as to ensure they received appropriate information in relation to their land
use rights.



                                                       - 44 -

9.5.10   The National Geographic Department (NGD) upgraded the national geodetic datum and improved
transformation parameters for sue with the satellite Global Positioning System (GPS). NGD also provided
GPS control points in areas where aerial photo maps could not be used. Aerial photography was acquired
over identified project areas and orthophotography produced by NGD for use by the SATs. The
orthophotography maps were produced at scales of 1:1,000, 1:2,000 and 1:4,000 with a total of 890,000
hectares being covered.


9.5.10   The Land Parcel Registration System (LPRS) was successfully implemented in all project
provinces to support derivative registration activities. An extensive training program was developed and
training in the LPRS provided to a large number of staff in each project province. A proposal for the
computerisation of the LPRS has been developed and will be implemented at a time when there is
appropriate capacity within the project to support computer based applications. New land offices were
constructed in all project provinces.

9.5.11   The property valuation system was developed and extensive training provided to valuation staff.
The valuation system included the development of rate tables and zone maps which enabled the
implementation of valuation to be simplified. The valuation system is operation in selected districts in four
provinces; Vientiane Capital City, Luang Prabang, Savannakhet and Champassack. Valuation Information
System software was developed to support the implementation of the property valuation system.


9.5.12   An Organisation Management and Operations (OMO) study was undertaken of DOL and land
offices to develop appropriate organisational structures, identify strengths and weakness, identify training
requirements and propose HR initiatives that needed to be developed and adopted.

9.5.13   The development of the In-Country Course in Surveying and Land Administration had a positive
impact on the development of human resource capacity for the project. A total of 26 project related staff
from DOL, NGD, provincial offices and the Polytechnic School graduated from the course. The Course
was developed into a three-year High Diploma in Surveying and Land Administration under the control of
the Polytechnic School. Three government officials obtained masters degree in land administration from
the University of New South Wales in Australia, and four DOL officials completed a two-year valuation
course in Bangkok.

9.5.14   Total project expenditure, including two years extension for financing the completion of buildings,
adjudication costs, training and project management of LTP II, equipment and vehicle and consultants
services for LTP II, are estimated at US$20.13 million, including US$13.73 million of IDA credit,
US$9.98 million of AusAID Grant fund, and US$0.6 million of Government's contribution. Cumulative
IDA disbursements at credit closing date (30 September 2007) are estimated at SDR10.26 million, leaving
the un-disbursed balance of SDR3.74 million (US$4.2 million).

9.6 Project Impact


9.6.1    The following impacts have been identified:

(a) Legal Impact: The project has successfully developed and promulgated the Land Laws, decrees and
working instruction as a foundation for sustaining the long-term Land Titling and land administration in
Lao PDR.




                                                     - 45 -

(b) Social Impact: The project has provided secure land-use rights to elegible land occupiers, reducing
land disputes and inducing confidence for investments in land. Women have equal rights in participating
and obtaining the benefits from the project, and registering their names on land titles. Moreover, as many
as 500 women worked in the systematic adjudication teams. Gender disaggregated data collected
shows that 28 percent of all land parcels are registered in the name of a female only, 41 percent in
joint names and 20 percent in the name of a male only. Moreover, more than 325 women worked
in the systematic adjudication teams and on other project teams.

(c) Institutional Impact: An internationally accepted standard for systematic land adjudication and
registration systems have been established in Lao PDR. In addition, more than 1,000 government and
contract staff were built with land adjudication and registration skills.

(d) Fiscal Impact: Government revenues resulting from the project increased significantly. The revenues
from land taxes due to better land records increased by double to Kip 7 billion in FY98/99 against the
amount collected in the pre-project FY97/98, and 10 times to Kip 33 billion in FY2003/04.

(e) Revenues from land registration fees increased by 4 times from Kip 850 million in 1998 to Kip 3.2
billion in 2002. The benefit: cost ratio of the registration revenues and the cost of issue a land title stood at
1.25:1, and this ratio is expected to rise in future when formal registration is widely accepted and the
volume of registration increased.

(f) Economic Impact: Based on data collected by DOL and the PLOs, and on the mid-term review and the
socio-economic baseline surveys, the actual land values in urban areas resulted from the project increased
by 11 percent over four years between 1999 and 2002 and it could reach 15 percent or higher over ten
years, while agricultural productivity in peri-urban areas increased more or less at the same rate due to
more investments on land and use of farm inputs and labor.

9.7 Factors Affecting Project Implementation

9.7.1    The project encountered several implementation problems including: (a) inadequate and untimely
allocation of counterpart funds; (b) shortage of Government staff to form the SATs, inadequate skills and
low financial incentives; (c) complex procedures for approval and signing the land titles; (iv) a large
backlogs in signing and distribution of land titles.

9.7.2    The shortage of counterpart funds was the most serious issues, an uncontrolled factor of DOL, and
greatly affected project implementation. This issue continues to remain unresolved to date, particularly in
the tight financial year of 2003/04. Other option, e.g. direct contribution from the participating provinces,
could have been adopted to resolve or minimize the problem.

9.7.3    Shortage of Government staff for mobilization of SATs due to Government's restriction on staff
increases was eased and resolved through employment of the contract staff and training provided. The lack
of financial incentives for field adjudication staff was also resolved through provision of adequate daily
allowance and parcels incentives.

9.7.4    The complex procedures for approval and signing the land titles are currently being addressed in
LTP II under the development of a transparent and effective land registration system. However, the
backlogs in signing titles and distribution, though improved significantly, still remain relatively large. The
backlog in signing is expected to be resolved through the above simplified procedures, while the backlog in



                                                      - 46 -

distribution is expected to be reduced when DOL, PLOs and beneficiaries recognize the fiscal and
economic benefits in distributing and utilizing the land titles and DOL and PLOs place high priority to
accelerate the title distribution.

9.8 Sustainability

9.8.1    LTP has been sustained through the Second Land Titling Project.


9.8.2    Prior to the project, the first registration of rights to land was undertaken sporadically (that is, at
the request of the landholder) although the facility to register was not uniformly available throughout the
country. While this is demand driven it has traditionally been a slow bureaucratic process and so expensive
as to preclude all but the wealthiest landholders from registration of their rights. With the highly successful
systematic registration program, all members of the community can potentially achieve registration within
four to six months and at subsidised cost. The supply-driven approach of systematic registration,
supported by the project, will be needed for some time into the future if the critical mass of titles necessary
to sustain a land market is to be achieved.


9.8.3    A strong basis for a sustainable land registration system has been developed for Laos. It has a
modern Land Law and this law is supported by a number of Ministerial Decrees that support the various
project activities including, land registration, cadastral surveying and valuation. There are numerous work
instructions prepared through the project that provide clear instructions and support the processes that have
been developed.


9.8.4    Nevertheless, the overall sustainability of the project remains fragile. There is a need for a
stronger commitment to project management and an increased awareness and improved implementation of
HR activities such as staff selection and training if an acceptable level of sustainability is to be achieved.
9.9 Performance of the Borrower, World Bank and the Co-financier.


9.9.1    Borrower and Implementing Agency. The Borrower did not provide adequate and timely
counterpart funds, which greatly affected project implementation in achieving project objectives,
particularly the institutional development and the land titling targets, The issue remains to date unresolved,
particularly in tight financial years of FY2003/04 due mainly to the limited country's revenues. The
Borrower also failed to provide adequate Government staff to form the SATs during initial years of the
project but subsequently the shortage was replaced by hiring incremental contract staff. In addition, the
Borrower attached priority to the low adjudication productivity, and subsequently provided financial
incentives, parcel incentives, to SATs in order to increase its productivity.

9.9.2    Complex procedures for approval and signing the land titles led to cumulative large backlogs in
signing and distribution of land titles. The backlog in signing title has been further addressed in LTP II
under the development of a transparent and effective land registration system, while the backlog in title
distribution continues to remain relatively large unless the simplified procedures are developed and
implemented and DOL and PLO recognize the fiscal and economic benefits in distributing the land titles
and place high priority to accelerate the title signing and distribution.

9.9.3    Bank. The Bank's performance at the project design and throughout project implementation was
generally satisfactory. Although the project was designed for 5-year implementation period, the Bank was
flexible at negotiations to extend project implementation to seven years, plus one year extension after the
original closing date to allow DOL to complete the construction of buildings. Counterpart funds was a



                                                        - 47 -

major issues affecting project implementation, and the Bank was neither strong enough to put conditions for
the Borrower to allocate the required counterpart funds nor to identify other option, e.g. direct contribution
from the participating province, to provide the needed funds. The backlog in titles distribution was equally
important in term of generating project benefits. The Bank have detected the large backlog only at the end
of project implementation, too late to remedy within project implementation period. The findings should
have been discovered in earlier years and measures identified to eliminate or minimize the backlog. Failure
in doing this meant that both Government and the Bank have lost the opportunity in generating fiscal
revenues and other economic investments.


9.9.4    In the World Bank's Project Appraisal, a decision was made to have a separate contract, using
Credit loan funds, to support the project management activities in the PSU and PFUs. The separation of
project management from the mainstream of TA proved to be unsatisfactory and at the conclusion of the
initial loan funded contract AusAID provided additional TA support for project management for a period of
13 months. Although more TA time would have been beneficial, it was sufficient to develop the basic skills
that were needed. The model in which project management is treated as a homogeneous component of TA
has been acknowledged as more effective.

9.9.5    Technical Assistance. Technical assistance provided under the project was adequate and its
performance was satisfactory, particularly in the development and establishment of a legal framework and
a systematic land adjudication and registration system in Lao PDR. However, equal emphases should have
been placed on community education services, land office improved services delivery in parallel to
development and implementation of land adjudication, and human resource development, which is currently
threatening project implementation of LTP II, to enable DOL to sustain the long term Land Titling
Program. In addition, building capacity for planning and monitoring was entirely neglected throughout the
project period, and to date DOL and PLO remain unable to prepare annual work plan and budget and
project monitoring.

9.9.6    Consultants. A number of consultants (individual and firms)were engaged to conduct studies and
assist in project implementation. The performance of consultants, who conducted studies, were satisfactory
and produced useful findings and recommendations for future land policy, improvements in land
management and implementation of land titling program, and the socio-economic baseline data of the land
titling project. In addition, a consulting firm was hired as the Project Administrator (PA) to assist in
project management and implementation. Its performance was, however, considered only marginally
satisfactory. Its main task were on procurement and financial management. The consultant introduced a
rather outdated MS Money Program for project accounting, which was simple and easy for operations of
daily financial transactions but difficult for production of monthly semi-annual and annual financial
statements. The latter has to be done manually, which was slow and tedious. The major tasks of annual
work planning and budgeting was neither undertaken nor the development of monitoring system. In
addition, technology transfer to counterpart staff was minimal and it threatened the sustainability of the
PSU in project implementation and management.

9.10 Implementation Experience and Lessons Learned


9.10.1   Major implementation experience and lessons learned from the project are:

(a) The pilot projects are essential and instrumental to Lao PDR, where land administration background
and legal framework were not well established in the country, particularly in gaining confidence and skills
in starting the Land Titling Project (LTP);



                                                      - 48 -

(b) A well-designed project with clear objectives realistic implementation period is crucial in enabling the
Government and the implementing agencies to gradually gain experience and in fulfilling project objectives.
LTP implementation was extended for 7 years at the project negotiations, to enable DOL to gradually gain
experience in implementing the project. However, due to several other problems (e.g., shortage of
counterpart funds, shortage of government staff and their low education base, and the lack of adequate
financial incentives) the objectives of the project were only partially achieved;

(c) Inadequate and untimely allocation of counterpart funds prevent the project to achieve its objectives.
Under the project, shortage of counterpart funds greatly affected project implementation. Other option
(e.g., direct contribution from the participating provinces) could have been adopted to resolve or minimize
the problem;

(d) Successful project implementation and sustainability would require an intensive training program and a
well managed HRD strategy. skills of staff under the project remain relatively low due to inadequate
training and a lack of HRD strategy;

(e) Distribution of land titles is highly important in proving land tenure security to land occupiers and in
generating government revenues and economic development activities. The backlog in titles distribution
under LTP remained as high as 50 percent at the closing date, and these investments have become sunk
costs and the expected Government's revenues lost.

(f) The commencement of all studies were either delayed or where not undertaken. Delays in undertaking
studies made preparation activities for phase II of the project difficult.

(g) The project represented a major and rapid injection of resources into a small and very inexperienced
agency. The capacity of the implementing agency to manage and mobilise these resources to meet the
project timetable was invariably over-estimated. This lesson can be observed from the low level of budget
(loan) disbursement in the early stages of the project and the extension of the project loan period. In
practice the capacity of the DoL to implement the project was impacted by the relatively low level of
management skills in such areas as: (a) project planning, especially forward planning of land registration
activities; (b) general management in a situation where activities have increased in size and complexity over
the duration of the project; (c) policy development and implementation; and (d) community development
and awareness programs.

(h) In the early years of the project, there was reluctance by DoL to implement CRS activities as part of
the systematic registration process. This probably reflected the general absence of any culture of customer
service within the public sector in general and DoL in particular. There was also some confusion in the
combination of the terms CRS and GAD and it must be noted that the AMC had some difficulty mobilising
individual TA with the breadth of experience and skills required by the comprehensive TOR.

(i) Failure to integrate DOL and Department of State Assets registration activities has resulted in there
being two land registration systems in the one government ministry. One system for individually owned
land and one system for state land.

(j) Lao PDR is coming from a resource base, in terms of institutional size, staff numbers and skills, which
is acknowledged to be comparatively low for the region. The ability to adapt to new techniques and
procedures was commensurately low and the introduction of new technology required greater attention than



                                                     - 49 -

anticipated.

(k) The introduction of relatively sophisticated survey and computer equipment presented some
management problems in itself. Operational delays were exacerbated by the failure to budget, both time
and money, for regular maintenance and the rotation of damaged equipment. Although the introduction of
technology created problems, it is necessary to continue to move the project forward in a controlled manner
once the manual systems have been developed and institutionalized.




                                                    - 50 -

Additional Annex 10. Bilateral Co-financier (AusAID) Comments

  Introduction

  This report focuses on areas where implementation could have been improved. At the same time, it is
  also important, however, to keep these in perspective as set against the enormity of the task undertaken
  at the beginning of Phase 1.

  From a minimal baseline, with scant institutional or human resource capacity, the Department of Lands
  has succeeded in building an operational land registration system, which despite its shortcomings, is
  able to maintain a systematic adjudication process, to issue and re-register land titles with due respect
  for protection of women's rights to land, in nine provinces in what is categorised as a Least Developed
  Country (LDC). While there is still far to go, much has been achieved, and, as a foundation stone of the
  development of a modern market economy, essential for growth and poverty eradication, the ongoing
  development of the land titling system will continue to have a pivotal role to play over the medium and
  longer term. For the anticipated benefits to accrue, however, it will be essential to build on the lessons
  learned from the first phase as documented in this report.

  A. Background

  A.1 Preparation

  LTP I was the first 5 year phase of a national land titling program. Following completion of the World
  Bank Project Preparation Report in May 1995, AusAID funded a two year pilot program from mid
  1995 until mid 1997 in Vientiane Prefecture. The World Bank Staff Appraisal Report was completed
  in February 1996 and loan effectiveness granted in February 1997. AusAID conducted an independent
  appraisal and following Ministerial approval, signature of a Subsidiary Memorandum of
  Understanding with the GOL and tender assessment, technical assistance was mobilised and formally
  commenced in September 1997.

  A.2 Funding

  At project commencement, AusAID funding accounted for about 20% of total project costs.
  Subsequently, the provision of additional technical assistance, combined with under expenditure of the
  loan and reduced GOL contributions, resulted in AusAID's share of project expenditure being almost
  40% of total LTP costs at the time of the initially extended loan closure date of September 2003 Cost
  share comparisons are complicated by changes in exchange rates and further extensions of LTP I
  overlapping with LTP II..

  A. 3 Technical Assistance

  AusAID funding primarily covered international and national technical assistance and international
  training (part of which was subsequently transferred to in country training). International technical
  assistance comprised a fulltime team leader and short term specialists in systematic adjudication;
  survey and mapping; land registration; land valuation; land law/policy; and community development.
  Subsequently, further international technical assistance was provided in education and project
  administration. Fulltime national advisers included systematic adjudication; survey; land valuation;
  community development and human resource development. Additional international and national
  technical assistance was provided by AusAID up until the initially revised project closure in September


                                                  - 51 -

2003. Bridging technical assistance was then provided until the commencement of Phase II in early
2004.

B. Assessment of project performance

At commencement of the project the Department of Lands had a staff establishment of less than twenty;
few of these staff had skills relevant to the new project. The main operational focus of the department
was the assessment and collection of land taxes. Measured against this background, by project
completion, there has been substantial change in the operations and staffing profile of the Department.
However, in AusAID's view, notwithstanding some notable successes, the project has only been
marginally satisfactory and only partially achieved its objectives as specified in the Staff Appraisal
Report. While not wishing to understate project achievements, particularly given the low skills base at
commencement, the comments below focus on areas where improvements could have been made.

B.1 Achievement of objectives

Targets for issuance of land titles were revised down and the draw-down and use of loan funds for
agreed project activities was slow. These broad level indicators of slower than anticipated progress
are, in AusAID's view, symptomatic of deeper management and operational problems that reach to the
core of successful land titling projects. In particular, the agreed high-level support for much needed
policy, strategic direction and institutional reform has not eventuated. Counterpart obligations for the
operation of the Project Steering Committee, management direction, counterpart funding, counterpart
staffing (especially the suitability of counterpart staff), attention to social issues and release of loan
funds to other agency implementing partners were not met to the level required by the project design.
Further training and capacity building needs remain high.

B.2 Project Design

AusAID and the World Bank have been partners in land titling projects in a number of countries as
well as partners in a previous parallel financed project in the agricultural sector in Laos. But in
retrospect, despite some forewarning, clearly the donor partners and project stakeholders
underestimated the implementation challenges:

·   The LTP Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) notes all previous Bank projects in Laos had been rated
unsatisfactory. Whilst there had been some changes in Laos, notably the introduction of the New
Economic Mechanism (NEM) ­ indeed the project rationale included supporting Laos in the transition
from a centrally planned to a market economy - major constraints remained relatively unchanged,
particularly in regard to institutional structures and capacity covering both technical and management
skills.
·   Both AusAID and World Bank experience of land titling in other countries highlighted factors that
contribute to poor performance including lack of political support, lack of institutional capacity, lack of
counterpart funding and weakness in central/provincial linkages. Although recognised, the impact of
these constraints was underestimated, and perhaps insufficient attention accorded to them.
·   Pre-project activities were in part undertaken to address some of the capacity constraints and
structural relationships. These pilot activities tended to confirm constraints, rather than establishing a
firmer base for project implementation.
·   Project design incorporating a Project Support Unit (PSU) to manage implementation proved more
of a constraint than advantage in developing sustainable institutional capacity within DOL. This



                                                  - 52 -

became increasingly the case when GOL decided to effectively separate the PSU (`the project') from
the Department of Lands, ostensibly to respond to the slow progress in title issuance. Addressing this
structural institutional issue, that had ramifications also at provincial level, became a major diversion
affecting project performance. The importance of harmonisation of partner government and donor
systems is a central issue recognised and taken up in the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness of
2005.
·    Similarly, the separation of project management from other technical assistance and the failure by
the borrower to access competent procurement and financial management support offered under the
loan created difficulties. This was temporarily addressed through access to additional bilateral donor
assistance but never fully resolved up until project completion.
·    Contextually, following the reverberating effects of the Asian economic crisis, an already cautious
government became even more cautious in its approach to embracing reform. By early 2000 project
implementation reached a nadir as a significant depreciation of the Kip limited the availability of
counterpart funding and combined with a stalling reform agenda. Project implementation did
subsequently improve from this low point as the economic crisis eased
·    The Project Steering Committee responsible for high level coordination and strategic direction of
the project, although scheduled to meet twice a year, met only three times prior to 2000 and then only
once after, in 2005, at which only delegated representatives of departments other than DoL attended.

In summary, whilst both the donors and the GOL acted in good faith in the development of the project,
it is probably fair to say that on the donor side the limitations imposed by capacity and structural
constraints and on the recipient side the scale of the project (counterparts, resources and reform
requirements) were underestimated and the pace of expansion too fast. Once the issues and lessons
learned were identified, more attention could have been paid to ongoing monitoring and dialogue.

B.3 Policy and Social Analysis

Ultimately the success and sustainability of land titling depends on registration of subsequent
transactions. This is essential for the development of efficient land markets as well as for legal
purposes, the resolution of disputes and revenue collection. To ensure the integrity of land registers,
land-owners need to understand the implications and value the benefits of first titling and the
subsequent registration of the transfer of titles. Equally, landowners need to understand the legal and
financial implications of using titles for collateral.

A number of project activities were designed to facilitate social assessments in support of the provision
of information to communities, the adjudication of land parcels and planning for the implementation of
sustainable land titling. These included baseline surveys, M&E and Customer Relations and Services
(CRS). None of these have been undertaken in a timely manner by the project. Only towards the end of
the Phase I project did any social data become available.

·    The longitudinal baseline survey scheduled for commencement of the project to provide a basis for
later impact assessment did not occur ­ firstly the Lao Government may not have perceived its value
and secondly the procurement process was protracted. A Socio-Economic Baseline Survey (so-called)
was not conducted until September 2003, with the result that it was firstly of reduced value for revising
activities in Phase I and secondly of limited input to the design of Phase II
·    The cross sectional surveys were also slow in happening, with the same results as above
·    Other policy/research studies (eg customary tenure) were similarly delayed, again mainly due to
procurement constraints, and a perceived lack of counterpart understanding of their relevance.



                                                   - 53 -

The issue of the importance and conduct of timely research studies to inform decision making remains a
concern that had still not been adequately addressed at the conclusion of Phase I.

In terms of sustainability, while there is some information available from the project on land
transactions involving registered titles, what was not available in Phase I ­ and is more difficult to
determine ­ is data on unregistered transactions involving registered titles. Availability of accurate and
reliable information, including monitoring and evaluation data continues to be an issue for the project.

B.4 Community Participation

A target number of titles issued is not a sufficient project objective. In assigning legal ownership
communities need to be aware of the implication of decisions taken, especially in a society where
matrilineal inheritance is the norm. Throughout Phase I, the community participation section,
Customer Relations and Services (CRS) Unit, struggled to make an impact against the achievement of
production targets. In addition, the concept of `participation' more broadly is differently nuanced in
the Lao context, and the community participation dimension of the first phase was constrained by
limited understanding of key officials in both management and the CRS Unit, low capacity, and lack of
a systematic approach to mainstreaming CRS into every stage of the registration process (before,
during and after adjudication).

Given that the sustainability of the land registration system is reliant upon community buy-in, weak
CRS represented a significant project risk. It would be fair to say that, of the donors, AusAID placed a
stronger emphasis on the importance of the CRS dimension than the World Bank. This may have
resulted in a dilution of the strength of the community participation message, as perceived by GOL at
that stage. The CRS process was also unable to identify communities or families who might be made
more vulnerable through land titling, such as ethnic minority communities practising customary tenure,
and families living on state land, raising social safeguard concerns.

Towards the end of LTP1, during preparation for the second phase of the project, CRS shortcomings
were increasingly taken up by both donors as a common concern, and the effectiveness of the CRS
approach was thoroughly reviewed in September 2003. Recommendations made for extensive
revisions, resulting in a new Community Education and Services Strategy, were incorporated into
Phase 2 design, which in a simplified, scaled-down form is currently being implemented in Phase 2.
Capacity to provide services and advice related to use of the title post-registration would be an
important focus for development in subsequent phases. Promoting understanding of, and advocacy for
community participation as an issue of quality and sustainability remained a donor-driven and
challenging agenda throughout Phase 1.

B.5 Gender Strategy

An early study undertaken by the Lao Women's Union Gender Resource Information and Development
(GRID) Centre in October 1998 Gender and Land Documents: How do Society's Perceptions of
Gender Affect Women?, published by GRID July 1999, summarised by GRID in 2000 as `How Social
Perceptions of Gender Roles Affect the Land Registration Process? The study reports that in 58% of
the cases, land documents of the various types then in circulation were incorrectly registered in only the
name of the husband, even though only 18% of the land belonged to them. It also found that for the
women's land, only 16% of the land documents were correctly registered in the name of the woman
owner, although 30% of the land belonged to women. For common property, amounting to 52% of the


                                                 - 54 -

land, 87% was registered in the name of the man only.
had indicated that poor land certification practices were resulting in erosion of women's' rights to their
land, and called for greater public awareness, particularly for the just-starting Land Titling Pilot
Project to focus on dissemination of information to highlight these gender issues.

A Customer Relations and Services (CRS) Unit in DOL was assigned responsibility for this, but social
data, as it became available, indicated some weaknesses in CRS effectiveness, notably in relation to
participation of women and the risk of land rights and tenure security for women. Engaging the Lao
Women's Union (LWU) to work with the CRS Unit to facilitate village level meetings and promote
community participation proved positive in addressing these gender issues, and by project completion
most concerns about the gender aspects of title registration had abated. The LWU showed admirable
commitment to their role in protecting women's rights to land, and achieved very positive results.
According to the Socio-Economic Baseline Survey (p.52) undertaken in September 2003, about 28% of
land titles in project areas were issued in women's names only, about 20% in men's names only and a
further 40.5% in joint names. These figures would appear to more accurately reflect actual ownership
patterns, though further study is needed to confirm this.

The study also indicated that the power over resources accessed through the use of the title as collateral
­ even where in a woman's name - typically remained with males, the implication being that the need
for CRS/CES activities extends beyond initial title registration, and that monitoring indicators need to
be adjusted to capture the real impacts on women.

B.6 Institutional issues

The change required to re-structure DOL from essentially a tax collection agency with a staff of around
20 within the Ministry of Finance to a modern land administration agency is substantial. Movement on
institutional reform has been cautious and many staff ill-equipped to adapt to new roles; there is also a
lack of mobility within the public sector and merit is only one of a number of factors impacting on staff
appointments. The landline to provinces remains through the Ministry of Finance. The institutional
context is further complicated by the separation of land policy under the Prime Minister's Office; the
need to coordinate a range of other government agencies; and development of national/provincial
linkages. Yet, within a few years, at the peak of Phase I there were in excess of 800 permanent and
contract staff employed on the project. This has been a significant development, though probably
focussed more on production than sustainability. Management and technical capacity remains a major
hindrance to sustainability. Staff selection processes could be improved to ensure that staff employed
possess the specific skills required.

In this regard the lack of attention given to training including the lack of willingness to use loan funds
for outsourcing of training is detrimental to sustainability. While the Central Training Unit has now
been established, and is operating to some effect, only a limited capacity exists for conducting training
in-house. As the quantity and quality of local training providers in Laos increases, opportunities for
expanding training at reasonable cost should be explored. The key training/education success has been
the two year surveying and land administration course at the Polytechnic School and the subsequent
introduction of a Higher Diploma in Surveying and Land Administration funded by the re-direction of
AusAID support from international studies (resulting from the lack of suitable candidates). The
creation of an in-country capacity for educating surveyors was a significant achievement for enhancing
the sustainability of the project benefits, and provides a suitable model for similar developments in
Phase 2, in particular the development of an in-country course for valuers.




                                                  - 55 -

B.7 M&E

Monitoring of production and expenditure improved over time but was affected by the lack of
recruitment and support for project management. This also affected planning. Effectively the project
did not have the systems or capacity to compare planned and actual outputs. Equally important the
project did not have the internal capacity to provide quality assurance and assessment of process
performance.

This may have been perceived as a low priority by the borrower, but notwithstanding the constraints,
the donors could perhaps have attempted to do more to support and develop capacity in this area,
particularly as this impacts on issues of quality in project implementation, as well as quantity.

B.8 Technical assistance

International technical assistance, aside from the team leader, comprised mainly short term inputs. In
several areas of the project this proved less effective than what might have been expected from longer
term inputs, due to the lack of counterpart capacity to sustain momentum between visits. The working
environment, particularly in relation to counterpart resources, management commitment and technical
skills was a major constraint. Similarly, the initial unavailability of space for co-location of advisers
and counterparts and subsequent reluctance on the Lao side to co-locate proved less than satisfactory.

The "milestone" contracting approach for technical assistance adopted by AusAID in Phase I proved
problematic. A high percentage of outputs required the submission of reports to trigger payment. This
tended to move the focus away from on-the-job training and skills transfer, particularly towards the end
of adviser assignments. This deficiency was recognised and addressed by AusAID and the adviser team
in the latter stages of Phase I, resulting in a revised approach to contract structure in Phase II. The use
of long-term national technical assistance has been a major success.

B.9 Donor coordination

Donor coordination and bilateral donor-Bank relations improved over the course of the project.
·   The preparation of a separate `design' document (for technical assistance) and separate appraisal
by AusAID created unnecessary multiple reporting requirements. AusAID adopted the PAD for
contracting purposes in Phase II.
·   Joint participation in supervision missions was very positive and over time initial communication
problems between the donors (consultation on mission dates, key issues, etc) improved.
·   The initial slow rate of project progress gave rise to somewhat different perceptions of priorities.
As mentioned earlier, AusAID's view was that whilst productivity was important, the process ­
particularly CRS - should also be a major focus.

C. Lessons learnt

·   Donors should better utilise the leverage available through the loan
o There is a need to ensure that pre-requisites are in place, such as baseline surveys, institutional
reforms, and so on.
o An asset register is essential for monitoring utilisation of project assets, such as vehicles, to ensure
they are used in accordance with project requirements and priorities, and not diverted for private use
o Perhaps a more `hands on' role in managing outcomes is required; a number of



                                                  - 56 -

administrative/management difficulties could and should have been foreseen
·   A good understanding is required of the social/cultural/political constraints which form the context
of the project
o limited delegation: the political system allows little scope for delegation of decision making, which
places a burden and a reluctance on senior officials to take risks, hence the bureaucracy can be
unresponsive
o there are different perceptions with regard to the importance of social issues, community
participation, CRS activities
o project needs to find ways to adapt to changing socio-economic situation, and engage in emerging
social issues and policy developments in peri-urban and rural areas to ensure that it remains relevant
and responsive to needs
·   Governance issues need to be effectively monitored
o The services offered by land offices must be clear, consistent, and transparent and open to all
citizens. Otherwise public confidence will be undermined.
o The use of land titling revenue to reduce poverty among the people of Lao is an important objective
of the project. This places responsibility on the government for the transparent collection and use of
the revenue, especially in making sure that only legitimate fees are collected from land users.
·   There can be tension between short-term objectives and long-term sustainability
o Emphasis on disbursement targets can lead to a focus on quantity of outputs over quality, and send
contradictory messages to partner government
o Ultimately success is measured in terms of subsequent registrations (the integrity of the register).
For governments, immediate increases in tax revenue are often the driving objective. Growing increases
in revenue for registration fees, which in Vientiane Capital are now exceeding revenue from land
taxation, should help garner more high level advocacy for this dimension of the project.
·   Training and capacity building are essential for project sustainability
o strategic responses need to be developed to address bottlenecks in the implementation of training
o tech Technical assistance is essential to make the loan 'work', but slow loan disbursement
constrains effectiveness of TA and causes TA cost overruns
o the utilisation of national advisers for long-term on-the-job mentoring is an important resource
o There is a need to be realistic about what can be achieved
o mentoring and skills transfer is essential
·   Factors that were underestimated and impacted adversely on the project include
o A low level of Lao absorptive capacity, technical and managerial constraints, inadequate high level
understanding and support
o Low priority given to process issues
o GOL constraints in responding to staffing needs, low salaries and incentives, counterpart funds
o Limited delegation of responsibilities and political conservatism
o Inability of non-DOL stakeholders to access loan money even where MOUs are in place

D. Implications for Phase 2

D.1 GOL ownership

·   It will be important to promote the profile of the project and lobby high-level support in MoF and
the Prime Minister's Office. Senior engagement has been particularly absent in the Prime Minister's
Office, the agency overseeing the land policy component in the later stages of Phase 1, and responsible
for chairing the National Land Policy Committee. The project lacks a `champion' in GOL. The Project
Steering Committee (PSC) could, if reconvened on a regular basis, be a vehicle for building higher


                                                 - 57 -

level interest, policy direction and support, through advocacy and joint decision-making. Donors should
also participate in the PSC, which could perhaps be timetabled to coincide with joint supervision
missions.
·    Increased commitment is needed to providing project-relevant information to senior levels of
government, in order to build an understanding of the project's aims and progress, and also to facilitate
inputs from government stakeholders. This will ensure that land-related initiatives of other agencies are
in line with the government's objectives for the land sector as implemented through its land titling
project.

D.2 Community participation

·    The project should continue to work with LWU to strengthen CES to ensure that:
·    vulnerabilities are identified and addressed, particularly of ethnic minorities, resettled communities,
and families living on state land who may be made more vulnerable from the land titling process
·    communities are aware of their rights and obligations of holding a land title under the amended
Land law
·    the integrity of the land registration system is maintained through re-registration of subsequent
transactions
·    emphasis on the protection of women's rights to land is maintained through LWU focus on gender
aspects of CES, and collection of disaggregated data to monitor progress

D.3 Sustainability

·    further professionalisation and sustainability in the land administration sector could be promoted
by continuing the higher education program in land surveying and administration, and perhaps
expanding to valuation
·    limiting rate of expansion could enhance sustainability/quality of implementation by
·    culture of training should be promoted in DOL
·    TA mandate should continue to be focused on capacity building/technology transfer through
on-the-job training and mentoring
·    roles of national TA should be built upon and expanded.

D.4 M&E

·    it is important to ensure that the impact of the project can be assessed by strengthening M&E
system to measure progress on higher levels of log frame (achievement of goal/purpose) as well as
technical implementation
·    the project should ensure availability of quality information for strategic decision-making by timely
implementation of studies, including impact study following up on SEBS 2003.
·    project should ensure quality as well as quantity issues are adequately monitored
·    M&E system needs to be strengthened to provide timely, accurate, reliable data
·    Desegregation of data is a priority to ensure that impacts on women's rights to land are captured
over the longer term
·    Development of instruments for monitoring of utilisation of revenue gains should be encouraged

D.5 Institutional arrangements

·    Building of appropriate institutional arrangements to promote greater cohesion in the land sector


                                                  - 58 -

(policy/management/administration) is essential
·   decentralistion of decision-making to provinces should be promoted to unblock bottlenecks at
central level; increase rate of draw down of loan by avoiding micromanagement at central project
management level
·   collaborative approach/partnerships with other agencies should be strengthened through
adequate/timely funding flows to partner agencies and enhanced communication mechanisms

D.6 Donor coordination

·   enhanced donor coordination would ensure unified messages sent to GOL
·   it would be useful to leverage the impact of the project through increased coordination with other
development initiatives, e.g. banking sector; land forest allocation program; infrastructure development;
extractive industries; Governance and Public Administration Reform Project (GPAR)
·   it is important to have realistic expectations based on actual capacities, and take a long term view



E Conclusion

The first phase of the Land Titling Project in Laos saw GOL establish a functioning land registration
system to a level of technical capacity which was satisfactory within the timeframe. As the project
matures in the second phase, increased efforts at the level of policy, strategic direction and institutional
reform will be the urgent priorities.




                                                 - 59 -

- 60 -

