Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CR. 12-A
Rq.t No. P-3656-MAI
REPORT AMD
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
ITE     I AA1  FOR RECANSTnUCINN 
AND
TINTER   ONA  DE VEL:OPEN  ASSOCIATION
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 12.4 MILIO
PROPOSED DM& SPECIAL FD OF SDR 13.1 MILLION
AiD PROPOSED LOAN OF US$18 MILION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF M&LAI
FOR A
FIFIE HICW" PROJECT
NOVEMB   14, 1983
This doc_mnt bas s restricted ditribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanee of
their official dudes. Its cotents may not othrwLse be discloed without World Bank authorization.



CURmRCY EQUrVALENT
Currexcy Units                     MaLswi Kwacha (K) and Tambala
SDRI 1.00                =         1 1_32105
US$1.00                  =K 1_5
MK                1_00             JSS.80
VEIGETS AND IEASURES
1 foot (ft)                        0_305 meters (a)
I mile (mi)                        1_609 kilometers (km)
1 square ile (Cni2)      =         2.590 square kilometers (km2)
I ton (t)                          0.907 netric tons (a ton)
(As the Malawian Kwacha is officially valued in relation to a basket of the
currencies of Mbalawi's trading partners. the USdollar/Ialawian Kuacha
exchange rate is subject to change_ Conversions in thin report were made
at US$1.00  IK 1.25.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB                     African Development Bank
DRIMP                    District Roads Improvement and Maintenance Program
EDF                      European Development Fund
EPD            -         Economic Planning Division
(Office of the President and Cabinet)
ERR                      Economic Rate of Return
MTC                      Ministry of Transport and Communications
Bus                      Ministry of Works and Supplies
NRDP                     National Rural Development Program
ODA                      Overseas Development Administration
PVRO                     Plant and Vehicle Hire Organization
TANZAM                   Tanzaniar-ZambLa Highway
TANZAiRA                 T lanzania-Zambia Railway
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - Harch 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT/SPECIAL FUND CREDIT/LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:       Republic of Malawi
.
AMOUNT:         A development credit of SDR 12.4 million (US$13.1 million
equivalent), a Special Fund credit of SDR 13.1 million
(US$13.8 million equivalent) and a loan of US$18 million.
including front-end fee.
TERMS:          The credit and Special Fund credit would be on standard
terms. The lan would be for a term of 20 years, including
five years of grace. at the standard variable interest
rate.
PROJECr         The proposed project would assist Malawi in further
DESCRIPTION:    achieving a balanced pattern of economic and social growth
by extending the District Roads Improvement and Maintenance
Program (DRIMP) nationwide, continuing to provide for
improvements of main and secondary roads, upgrading of an
important section of the North-South road to a paved
standard. and financing a transport systems study of the
northern access route linking Malawi and the
Tanzania/Zambia corridor. The proposed project would also
strengthen transport planning and the management
capabilities of the Ministry of Works and Supplies (MWS).
Specifically, it would finance: (i) completing the third
and last phase of DRIMP; (ii) a four-year maintenance and
rehabilitation program for the main and secondary road
networks; (iii) constructing a two-lane bituminous road
between the Luwawa Turnoff and Champhoyo; (iv) providing
weigh bridges and vehicles for axle load control; (v)
furniture, training aids and equipment for the MWS' new
training center in Lilongwe; and (vi) providing consultant
services and training. Extension of DRIMP to the remaining
districts will enable rural people throughout Malawi to
benefit from improved access to markets, supplies and
public services. The road maintenance component will
improve road conditions on the major routes, thus reducing
transport costs and enhancing the reliability of
transport. The reduced transport costs, would benefit
farmers, shippers and consumers. Significant benefits are
to be derived from the institutional strengthening of the
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the peuformanc of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
District councils and the planning capabilities of the
Economic Planning Division (EPD) and the Ministry of
Transport and Communications (HTC). The 50 km road
construction component will help redress regional
imbalances by completing the paving of an important part of
the North-South road linking the more developed Central and
Southern Regions with the less developed Northern Region.
It would help provide landlocked Malawi with an alternative
international routing through Tanzania for its exports and
imports. The economic analysis therefore estimates the
project's benefits if the remaining 93 kms of road to the
Tanzanian border were to be paved and international traffic
develop. The only concern associated with the road
construction component is that the northern access route
may not become available for international traffic if the
Malavi and Tanzania Governments fail to reach final
agreement on constructing the road link between the two
countries. However, significant progress is being made by
the two countries, and such a link has the backing of the
nine member Southern African Development Coordination
Conference.



- iii -
Estimated Costs                                US$ Millions
Local   Foreign   Total
DRIMP III                                  8.19     5.63    13.82
Road Maintenance                           8.54    22.22    30.76
Road Construction                          3.05     8.16    11.21
Axle Load Control                          0.05     0.20      0.25
Lilongwe Training Center                   0.02     0.16      0.18
Consultancy Services                       1.33     5.05      6.38
Sub-Total                       21.18    41.42    62.60
Physical Contingencies                     2.12     4.14      6.26
Price Contingencies                        8.48     6.67    15.15
Sub-Total                       10.60    10.81    21.41
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        31.78    52.23    84.01
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                          0.05      0.05
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                  31.78    52.28    84.06
TOTAL NET OF TAXES AND DUTIES             26.23    52.28    78.51
Financing Plan
IDA/Bank                                   4.96    26.12    31.08
IL'A Special Fund                          1.85    11.97    13.82
AfDB                                       1.81    14.19    16.00
Government of Malawi                      17.61      -       17.61
Total Net of Taxes and Duties             26.23    52.28    78.51
Estimated Disbursements of IDA and IDA Special Fund Credits and IBRD Loan
(IDA/IBRD FIscal Year).
US$ Million
84       85       86        87      88       89       90
Annual          0.4      13.5     10.2      9.1      5.8      3.7      2.1
Cumulative      0.4     13.9      24.1     33.3    39.1      42.9     44.9
Rate of Return:        62 percent on road maintenance component. at least
12 percent on the district roads and the road
construction component.
Appraisal Report:      Report No. 4603-MAI, November 14, 1983
Map:                    IBRD 17178 Transport Network



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A FIFTH HIGHWAYS PROJECT
.
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
*          credit for SDR 12.4 million (US$13.1 million equivalent), a Special Fund
credit of SDR 13.1 million (US$13.8 million equivalent) and a proposed loan
for Us$18 million to the Republic of Malawi to help finance a Fifth
Highways Project. The credit and Special Fund credit would be on standard
IDA terms. The loan would be repaid over 20 years including five years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The African Development
Bank (AfDB) would provide parallel financing of 15 million units of account
(US$16.0 million equivalent). The loan would be repaid over 20 years
including five year's grace, at an interest rate of 9.5 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Malawi: Growth and Structural Change, A Basic
Report (Report No. 3082a-MAI) dated February 8, 1982, was circulated to
the Executive Directors on March 9, 1982. Annexes to the report were
distributed on June 26, 1981. Annex I contains the basic country data.
3.        Malawi is a small (118,500 sq km), densely-populated (about six
million people in 1981) landlocked country in southeastern Africa. Its
main assets are moderately fertile soils, good water resources and a cli-
mate favorable to crop production. Unlike its neighbors, Malawi has no
known substantial mineral resources.
4.        Although Malawi has a GNP per capita of only US$210 and has been
identified by the United Nations as one of the world's poorest countries,
its progress since independence, measured against its natural resources,
has been significant. GDP at constant prices grew at an average annual
rate of 6 percent between 1964 and 1979. During the same period, real
growth of estate agriculture and manufacturing exceeded 10 percent per
annum and export volume grew at 4.5 percent per annum. A steadily
increasing investment rate (rising from 9 percent of GDP at independence to
33 percent in 1979) has been supported by heavy inflows of official and
private external capital as well as by a significant increase in domestic
savings (from virtually nil in 1964 to 14 percent of GDP in 1979).



- 2 -
5.        Malawi's development success has been due largely to the realis-
tic and purposeful policies of the Government. Public investment has been
intended primarily to support private initiative in the directly productive
sectors by providing infrastructure, public utilities and support ser-
vices. The Government has emphasized smallholder agriculture, as about
90 percent of the population lives in the rural areas and depends on agri-
culture for its livelihood. The Government has thus undertaken a number of
integrated rural development projects and, in the late 1970s, embarked on
the National Rural Development Program (NRDP), an ambitious 20-year program
for extending services to smallholders countrywide. The Government's
decision to emphasize directly productive sectors and infrastructure has
resulted in relatively slower development of social services. Over the
past 10 years, 7 percent of the Government's development budget has been
spent on health, education and community development, compared to 22
percent on natural resources and 39 percent on communications.
6.        Malawi's economy is heavily dependent on three primary commodity
exports (tea, sugar and tobacco) and is highly vulnerable to international
price fluctuations. Since 1974, there have been periodic balance of
payments problems of increasing severity due primarily to (a) rapid
escalation in import prices, particularly of fuel and intermediate and
capital goods; (b) cyclical swings in export prices of tobacco, sugar and
tea: and (c) significantly higher costs of transport for exports and
imports owing to rising ocean freight charges, port congestion in
H4ozambique, and disruptions of overland transport.
7.        While the Government successfully steered the economy through
balance of payments crises in the past, the deterioration in the balance of
payments since 1978 has been less manageable. For reasons mostly outside
Malawi's control, the deficits in both the trade and non-factor services
grew rapidly until 1980. Between 1977-80 Malawi's terms of trade fell by
40 percent. While export prices declined by 16 percent (due mainly to
falling tea and tobacco prices), import prices rose by 39 percent, partly
because of the steep increase in prices of petroleum products. The
petroleum import bill more than doubled, raising its share in total imports
from 8.5 percent in 1977 to almost 11 percent in 1980. In recent years
(1980, 1981), agricultural production suffered from recurring drought,
reducing export volumes and necessitating large imports of maize, a
commodity in which Malawi had been self-sufficient during most of the
1970s. Finally, disruptions of the rail transport system through
Mozambique have forced Malawi to use more costly alternative routes as
principal means of transport for exports and imports (para. 17). As a
result of these developments Malawi's current account deficit deteriorated
sharply. From an annual average of about 8-9 percent of GDP in the mid-
1970s, it rose to 18 percent in 1978 and 24 percent in 1979 before falling
to 18 percent in 1980 and a 12 percent in 1981. Capital inflows did not
cover current accounts deficits and foreign exchange reserves fell from the
equivalent of over five months of imports to less than two months between
1977-81.



- 3 -
8.        Malawi's fiscal position has also seriously deteriorated.  From
independence through 1977/78, government expenditures and revenues expanded
roughly in line with the increases in GDP, and deficits rarely exceeded
8-9 percent of GDP. In the past four years, expenditure growth has
outstripped the increase in revenues and the share of government deficits
in GDP averaged 15.6 percent in 1978/79-81/82. The underlying cause of
these deficits was the increase in government expenditure to around    35
percent of GDP compared to an average 26 percent for the previous six
years. Increases in domestic borrowing, mainly from the monetary system,
and in foreign borrowing, partly on commercial terms, were required to
finance the rising budget deficits. Inflationary pressures grew and prices
rose at an average rate of almost 14 percent per annum between 1979 and
1981.
9.        Because of the Government's limited ability to mobilize
resources, the appreciable expansion of Malawi's development program over
the past decade has been financed in large part by increased public capital
inflows. The net contribution from foreign official sources to the
financing of public investment increased from US$17 million in FY68, to
about US$105 million in FY82, of which about US$48 million were grants.
I1owever, borrowing on commercial terms accounted for about 50 percent of
total borrowing from 1979-81.
10.       By the end of 1982, Malawi's external public debt outstanding and
disbursed totalled US$700 million. In late 1982 Malawi rescheduled both
its official and commercial debts. Otherwise its debt servicing, including
repayments to the IMF, would have amounted to over US$130 million,
equivalent to over 40 percent of exports of goods and services. This
compares to a level of about 10 percent in the mid-1970s. As commercial
borrowing increased, average terms of borrowing have hardened in recent
years. The average grant element of external loans is now 40 percent
compared with 80 percent during 1971-75.
11.       The Government and the IMF agreed to a new standby program for
SDR 22 million in August 1982. A first phase of a multi-year stabilization
effort, the program aims at reducing both the balance of payments current
account deficit and the budgetary deficit. As part of the program, the
Government devalued the kwacha against the SDR by 15 percent in April
1982. The other performance criteria involve phased ceilings on net
domestic assets of the banking system and on net credit to the Government
and a limit on government external commercial borrowing. The standby was
implemented satisfactorily, and the Government and the IMF have recently
concluded a new multi-year program, and an Extended Fund Facility which
begins this fall. As part of the Extended Fund Facility, the Government
devalued the kwacha against the SDR by 12 percent in September 1983.



-4-
12.       These short-term measures are complemented by a mediumrterm
structural adjustment program on which the Government embarked in 1981.
The program's principal objectives are to diversify Malawi's export base,
encourage efficient import substitution, adjust income policies, improve
the public sector's financial performance and strengthen economic planning
and monitoring. The Bank's first structural adjustment loan for
US$45 million was made in June 1981. After initial difficulties, good
progress was made in implementing the Government's adjustment program:
additional funds were allocated to the agricultural sector, agricultural
prices were adjusted, public utility tariffs increased and the budget for
1982/83 was trimmed with sufficient resources provided for major
development sectors. The second tranche was released in April 1982.
However, during 1982 the country's efforts were set back by increased
disruption of the traditional transport routes and continued depressed
demand for Malawi's export products. Nevertheless, the country was able to
reduce its current account deficit to 11 percent of GDP, reduce the
budgetary deficit for 1982/83 to 9.4 percent of GDP, and meet its IMF
standby ceilings. GDP growth was 3.0 percent, largely due to 6.2 percent
increase in output from agriculture, following a period of no growth in
1980 and 1981. The industrial sector contracted by 3.7 percent. Malawi's
economic performance and creditworthiness are expected to improve in the
medium term if the structural adjustment program is implemented
successfully.  Within three to five years the country should be able to
reach sustainable levels of current account and budgetary deficits while
still achieving an acceptable growth rate. While external borrowing is
expected to remain high to make up for the shortages in domestic funds to
finance Malawi's development program (in FY82, domestic contribution to
capital expenditures was only 27 percent), export growth is expected to
average about 14 percent a year in nominal terms during thee next five
years. This would reduce the debt service ratio to an average of 25
percent over the period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
13.       Over the past 17 years, Malawi has received 28 IDA credits
totalling around US$325 million and seven Bank loans totalling US$75
million of which two were on third window terms. Of the Bank Group
assistance, some US$121 million (30 percent) was for agriculture, US$107
million (27 percent) for education, US$65.0 million (16.3 percent) for
roads, US$45.0 million (11.2 percent) for structural adjustment, US$38.0
million (9.8 percent) for power development, US$7.0 million (1.7 percent)
for a health project, US$3.0 million (0.8 percent) for a development
finance company (INDEBANK), and the balance of US$13.0 million (3.2
percent) for water supply, technical assistance and to finance feasibility
studies for the proposed wood industries project. The first Bank loan to
Malawi was made on third window terms in June 1976 and the first standard
Bank loan in April 1977. The most recent operations were a US$5.0 million
equivalent credit for a smallholder fertilizer project and another US$6.8



million credit for a health project. The fertilizer project was part of
the Bank Group's Special Action Program for Africa involving both the use
of a revolving fund and increased sector lending.
14.       IFC's investment in Malawi consists of a loan of US$10.8 million
for a textile mill, another of US$9.9 million for a sugar mill, a US$0.6
million equity investment in INDEBANK and a US$2.0 million loan to Malawi
Motels Limited for tourism. A US$262,000 equity and a loan of US$1.7
million for the production of ethanol from molasses were approved in July
1980. Project implementation has been generally satisfactory. However,
due to depresed world sugar prices and difficulty of transporting sugar to
world markets, the Dwangwa Sugar Corporation is experiencing financial
difficulties and IFC and other project lenders have agreed to a
rescheduling of the finances of the company. Malawi Hotels Limited is in
critical financial condition due to reduced business traffic, weak
managem--t and low tariffs. IFC is assisting the Board of Malawi Hotels
to obtain higher tariffs from Government and to attract new management to
the company. A Summary Statement of Bank Group Operations is provided in
Annex II.
15.       During the next five years, Bank Group assistance to Malawi will
continue to be closely tailored to help Malawi restructure its economy,
especially to help improve agricultural productivity and the efficiency and
effectiveness of public and private enterprises. Towards this end, a
second structural adjustment operation and related technical assistance
credit is planned for FY84. It is expected to continue to improve the
incentives for smallholders, increase efficiency in the productive sectors,
better mobilize and manage resources and improve institutions. Further
investments in agriculture, transport, education, health and housing are
contemplated as well as a wood processing project and a second line of
credit to Indebank. The Bank Group's economic and sector work will build
on the previous studies (basic economic report, sector work on energy,
health and NRDP, etc.) by focusing on five high priority areas which will
over the medium term, help Malawi improve its economic performance: (a)
agricultural productivity; (b) public sector management: (c) external
transport; (d) industrial productivity; and (e) development of Malawi's
human resource potential by addressing the problems of population growth
and the cost effectiveness of the social sectors. Based on the findings of
the Fifth Highways appraisal and recent supervision missions, a Transport
Sector Report is being prepared by the Eastern Africa Transport Division.
The report will assess the impact of the transport crisis on Malawi's
economy, the Government's short and medium term options for overcoming the
burden of the transit limitations, and the Bank's future role in the
sector. It will be finalized later this fiscal year after being reviewed
with Government.



-6-
Disbursements
16.       Disbursements of the Bank Group loans and credits in Malawi
generally have kept close to schedule and compare favorably with other
countries in the region and even on a Bank-wide basis. During the period
FY80-82, the disbursement rate on loans and credits to Malawi (excluding
the effect of non-project lending) averaged about 26 percent per annum,
significantly higher than the Eastern Africa Regional average of 17.8
percent and the Bankwide average of about 21 percent. In FY83, the
disbursement rate for Malawi was about 29 percent, again significantly
higher than the Eastern Africa Regional average of 20.7 percent and the
Bankwide average of 21 percent. Only one project--the USS7.0 million
Blantyre Water Supply Project--is appreciably behind schedule due to the
late delivery and installation of electrical and mechanical equipment for
the pumping stations. However, deliveries have been expedited and the
improvement in disbursements over the past several months should continue.
As of September 30, 1983, disbursements on this project totalled US$5.9
million.
PART III
The Transport System
17.       Malawi's major transport arteries include 13,300 km of road
network which is fairly well developed south of the capital, Lilongwe, but
less extensive in the northern half of the country; a 680 km rail system in
the southern half of the country which is used mainly for export-import
traffic; lake transport which links the north with the central area and
compensates to some extent for the limited land transport links; and air
transport service which is provided at four airports. As a landlocked
country, Malawi has always had to depend on external transport routes to
reach the sea. Traditionally, almost all exports and imports have moved by
rail on two lines through Mozambique to the ports of Beira and Nacala.
However, frequent disruptions in service caused by insurgent attacks along
the 360 km rail link between Beira and Malawi combined with the
deteriorating condition of the line, have effectively reduced the transport
capacity to a fraction of its former level. Similarly, the 600 km rail
line to Nacala is in extremelv poor condition leading to interruptions of
traffic and problems with importing essential materials. During the second
half of 1982 the transport problems reached crisis proportions. Traffic
flow through the port of Beira, normally constituting 65 percent of
Malawi's external trade, came to a virtual standstill. Over 65,000 tons of
fertilizer destined for Malawi was stranded at the time of greatest need
and petroleum supplies and other essential imports were sharply reduced.
Exports of tea and tobacco were also delayed or rerouted and 54,000 tons of
sugar could not be exported. As a result of these problems, most
export/import traffic has been diverted to alternative routes by rail/road
and, in times of emergency, by air, via South Africa and Zambia at greatly
increased costs. The economic cost to Malawi of these events mostly in
lost foreign exchange, has been estimated by the Economic Planning Division



(EPD) at around US$12 million in 1982 and an estimated US$30 million in
1983 of which around US$22 million alone are losses because of increased
transport costs. The estimated indirect costs to the agricultural and
agro-industrial sectors are much larger. Some shipments have been diverted
through Dar-es-Salaam via the Tanzania-Zambia railway to Lusaka, but both
this and the South African routing depend on the use of 600 km of road
transport between the Malawi/Zambia border at Mchinji and Lusaka which is
in itself more expensive than the traditional routes to the sea via Beira
and Macala. Prospects for an early resolution to the underlying political
problem in Mozambique are not bright and the railway and port
rehabilitation programs prepared by the South African Development
Coordination Conference Transport Secretariat for the Beira and Nacala
lines will require four to five years to complete once work actually
begins.
18.       Road transport dominates Malawi's domestic transport although the
topography in parts of the country makes provision and maintenance of
transport facilities difficult and costly. Approximately 2800 km of main
roads (about 1800 bituminous paved) connect principal cities and towns, and
about 2700 km of secondary roads (about 200 km bituminous paved) link
smaller centers to main roads. There are also about 5000 km of district
feeder roads and another 2700 km of roads serving individual towns and
agricultural estates. Over 85 percent of the paved and improved roads are
located in the southern half of the country reflecting the regional
imbalances.  Major construction of paved roads during the past few years
has been concentrated on about 1100 km north-south spine road linking the
three regions of Mhalawi. When ongoing projects are completed in 1984, some
1005 km of that road will have been paved (para. 29). Improvements are
also being made to other main and secondary roads. Some 1100 km of the
long neglected district roads were improved under the first phase of the
District Roads Improvement and Maintenance Program (DRIMP) and some 2400 km
are being covered under the program's second phase.
19.       In 1982 the vehicle fleet totalled about 29,000 or 4.5 vehicles
per 1000 inhabitants which is about average for East Africa but less than
half of Kenya's vehicles per capita.  Overall the fleet has been growing at
an average rate of 3 percent per annum. Truck transport F ices are
provided mainly by small operators and are regulated by the Road Traffic
Commissioner in the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) through
the issuance of licences. Vehicle dimension and weight regulations are
adequate and enforcement of the regulations by the MTC and the National
Police has improved considerably during the past few years partly as a
result of a covenant agreed under the second highway project. The proposed
project will provide further assistance to expand and enforce the vehicle
weight regulations (para. 35).
Transport Policy and Coordination
20.       Since the beginning of the seventies, Malawi's transport policy
has had three broad objectives: (a) to improve the administrative and
socio-economic integration of the country by linking the Northern, Central
and Southern Regions with reliable all weather connections; (b) to support



- 8 -
rural development by improving access to rural areas; and (c) to provide
efficient lInks with transport routes to Indian Ocean seaports for exports
and imports. Progress has been made towards achieving these objectives
despite the difficulties experienced in transit services through
Mozambique. The proposed project would complete the paving of the
North-South road to Karonga except for a final 45 km section. Concerned
over the vulnerability of its principal access route to continued
disruption, the Government has acted quickly to try to lessen the impact of
the continuation of the transit difficulties, mostly by diverting traffic
through ports in South Africa because they are easily accessible, reliable
and offer service incentives. NTC's Planning Unit has been strengthened to
deal with the transport emergency and a number of studies of alternative
routings were initiated or completed. One of the most important was
financed by the European Development Fund (EDF). After examining the
future changes in the composition and direction of trade, the EDF study
recommended that the Government give high priority to developing the
northern transport access route to the Tanzania-Zambia (TANZAM) highway,
the Tanzania-Zambia (TAZARA) railway and the port of Dar-es-Salaam. This
routing is potentially cheaper in time and cost than the South African
alternative.11 The proposed project includes funds for a transport system
study of the northern access route which would include the new road link
between Malawi and the TAZARAJTANZAM corridor. The planning and
construction of such a link and the efficient use of the international
route will require close cooperation between the Malawi and Tanzanian
Governments (para. 37). The transport systems study would, inter alia,
assess the viability of the split between transport modes in both countries
including the availability of truck and railway capacity; customs
procedures and facilities. The Malawi and Tanzania Governments have
already reached agreement on an action pirogram on steps to be taken to open
up the proposed route. Terms of reference and a short list of consultants
for the transport systems study were agreed on during negotiations. The
study is expected to start in May 1984 and be completed in early 1985.
21.       Investment in the transport sector has been high during the last
four years, representing an average of 34 percent of total capital
expenditures. A large part of this was for the railway extensions and the
construction of the Lilongwe International Airport.  In accordance with the
1/    The following is a comparison of alternative routes:
Length   Transport Cost per ton
Route                                        (km)              (NR)
Lilongwe to Durban via Lusaka              2,835                207
Lilongwe to Dar-es-Salaam via Lusaka       2,630                192
Lilongwe to Dar-es-Salaam via Karonga       1,500               109



high priority assigned to the transport sector, the Government plans to
allocate around 30 percent of its total capital investment over the next
three years (1983/84-85/86) to continue to improve regional road links and
road maintenance, to extend the feeder road network to handle a larger
volume of agricultural output and to improve external links through
continued investment in the railway and completing the 93 kms of unpaved
section of the North-South road. This level of public investment is
reasonable in terms of the overall level of financing and the sub-sectoral
allocations (highways 80 percent of expenditures followed by rail (10
percent) and air (10 percent)). The Government has included in its
investment plan proposals to pave the Champhoyo-Mbowe section and to
construct the Karonga-Ibanda road, the two  missing- links in the northern
access route. The investment plan was reviewed during negotiations.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that Government would, by
January 31 in each fiscal year during the carrying out of the project.
review with the Association its proposed transport investment program for
the foilowing fiscal year (Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
22.       Responsibility for coordinating transport investments is vested
in the Economic Planning Division (EPD) in the office of the President and
Cabinet which annually reviews both road plasw of the Ministry of Works and
Supplies (MWS) and development plans of the MTC for all other transport
modes. In the past, effective coordination of transport investment has
been lacking due to staffing constraints and limited intersectoral
planning. Consequently, the various transport modes have been developing
without adequate coordination. The Bank Group's fourth highway project has
assisted the Government in strengthening its transport planning and
coordination capability by financing the services of a transport economist
planner attached to EPD as well as the overseas training for local staff.
This technical assistance is helping the Government establish an adequate
system of transport planning and on-the-job training for Malawian
professional staff. The Government has requested a continuation under the
proposed project of this support to the Transport Planning Unit of EPD to
assist in transport investment planning.
Road Administration and Training
23.       The MWS, through its Roads Department, is responsible for all
classified roads (main and secondary) while the district councils have
primary responsibility for district roads. MWS is also gradually taking
over responsibility for maintaining the 2000 km of feeder roads being
constructed under various agricultural development projects; these roads in
turn become the responsibility of the district councils as they develop
their road maintenance capability. In addition, the Ministry of Forestry
and Natural Resources is responsible for 1600 km of forestry and national
park roads and tracks. The organizational structure of the MWS and its
Roads Department is adequate. MWS has three major functional units at
headquarters in Lilongwe: Administration (including financing), Engineering
and Development (largely planning). The Roads Department within the
Engineering Unit has recently increased its number of professional posts to
25, in accordance with the need for the increased emphasis on road



- 10 -
maintenance and planning. The regional offices are headed by a civil
engineer and are responsible for road construction and other works.   The
regional offices are supported by 4 branch offices, 14 district depots and
48 subdlstrict depots for road maintenance.
24.       Altogether MWS has about 100 professional staff and about 400
subprofessional and supervisory staff and about 1300 other salaried staff.
Up to the late 1970's, localization of MWS proceeded slowly but
satisfactorily. Of the 50 most senior posts filled by expatriates in 1980,
23 are now filled by Malawians and only seven of the Road Department's 17
professional staff are expatriates. The present salaried staff of about
1800 includes only 67 expatriates compared with 105 in 1980. Since 1978,
the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) has been steadily reducing
its financial assistance for expatriate staff in MWS. The reduced number
of technical experts combined with the accelerated rate of localization
have imposed an increasing burden on MMS's capacity to plan and supervise
the expanded road maintenance and DRIMP programs. Additional technical
support is required to strengthen the management of these operations in
this important transitional period (para. 37).
25.       The Coveroment places high priority on training and educating
nationals for professional positions and is slowly filling the posts
currently held by expatriates. However, the program has not fulfilled the
high demand for Malawians as quickly as possible due to difficulties of
competing with the private s-ctor. Much of the professional training is
provided abroad through externally funded programs (ODA, European Economic
Community, etc.) which to date have provided sufficient training
opportunities for suitably qualified candidates. In the meantime, the
Malawi Polytechnic has been developing its technical training
capabilities. Substantial progress has been achieved in training of
artisans for implementing road maintenance and construction programs. In
Lilongwe, MWS is building a new training center, which will ultimately
replace the training program in Zomba. The Fourth Highway project is
assisting in financing the facilities required for the center and the
proposed project will support its furnishing and equipping (para. 36). The
new training center is expected to begin limited operation in early 1984.
Maintenance
26.       Responsibility for maintaining the main and secondary roads
systems rests at the headquarters level with the Roads Department and at
the regional level with three regional divisions of the MWS. The divisions
have a small but well trained cadre of maintenance personnel which utilizes
mechanized technology for periodic maintenance while routine maintenance is
basically labor-intensive. Equipment is rented by the Roads Department
from a plant and vehicle hire organization (also under MWS), which procures
and maintains all government-owned equipment and vehicles. Rental rates
are reasonable, and equipment availability and utilization rates are among
the best in sub-Saharan Africa, although the trend has been deteriorating
in recent years (para. 37).



- 11 -
27.       Road users contribute to government revenue through taxes and
duties on fuel, lubricants, vehicles and spare parts, and through licences
and registration fees.21 For FY81, total revenue from road users amounted
to US$59.0 million equivalent. The present cost of administering and
maintaining the road network including the Road Traffic Commission's
office, amounts to some USS6.5 mi;lion. Road user taxes, therefore,
contribute substantially to the government budget. In the past, Malawi has
adequately maintained its roads system while allocating around 10 percent
of its annual highway budget for maintenance. In the late 1970s, however,
maintenance provisions did not keep pace with inflation and the growth and
wear of the road network. Recognizing the need for increased budgetary
support, the Government in 1982/83 increased by more than 50 percent the
level of funding for maintenance of main and secondary and roads improved
under DRIMP. To provide a better basis for future allocations, it
commissioned a comprehensive study of the medium-term road maintenance
needs of the classified network of main and secondary roads and the
technical, financial and manpower resources required to meet those needs.
The IDA-financed consultant study recommended that budget allocations for
improved routine and periodic maintenance be further increased, equipment
availability improved and management of the Plant and Vehicle Hire
Organization (PVHO) strengthened. The consultants also drew up a program
for rehabilitation of around 660 km of paved roads and 1733 km of gravel
and earth roads. Based on the consultant's findings, the Government and
the Bank agreed on a slightly scaled down five-year maintenance program
with the budgetary allocations for regular maintenance increased. During
negotiations, agreement was reached on the maintenance allocations for
FY84185. They will be increased by three percent in real terms to MK7.5
million. A general understanding was also reached that this allocation
would be further increased by five percent in real terms in FY85/86 through
FY87/88 (para. 33).
28.       In the early 1970's the roads maintained by the District Councils
were largely neglected. To provide a basis for establishing adequate road
maintenance organizations in all of the country's 24 districts, a pilot
DRIMP was begun in the Kasungu District in 1974 under the IDA-financed
Second Highway Project. The scheme led to the successful establishment r;f
an improvement and maintenance unit responsible for all maintenance
operations in the district and its training of road staff and foremen;
subsequently three other districts were added. Altogether, 1,100 km of
district roads were improved to a minimum all-weather standard. Thus far,
2/    At the time of appraisal, the pump price of gasoline was US$.80 per
liter and US$.79 per liter for diesell equivalent irport prices are
US$.35 and US$.35, respectively. The normal duty on gasoline is
US$.20 per liter on gasoline and on diesel, US$.17 per liter; in
addition, in 1979 during a period of fuel shortage in Malawi, an
added fuel levy of around US$.13 per liter was imposed on gasoline
and diesel. This levy is still in force, although the supply of fuel
is back to normal.



- 12 -
DRIMP has demonstrated that labor-intensive construction techniques are
cost-effective for low standard district and feeder roads. The fourth
highway project is extending the program to nine more districts (another
2,400 km of roads) and the proposed project to the remaining eleven (1900
km). The MWS supervises maintenance operations in each district during the
first three years and then turns the facilities and staff over to the
Coulcils. The Government supplements the Councils' limited revenues to
cover recurrent maintenance costs. IDA is assisting Government by
financing, on a declining basis, the incremental portion of the recurrent
maintenance costs during the project period. This assistance will continue
under the proposed project.
Previous Bank Group Involvement
29.       The Bank Group's involvement in Malawi's highway subsector dates
back to 1966 when credit S-2 MAL was made to help finance detailed
engineering design of the Zomba-Lilongwe road (290 km). The first highway
project (IDA credit 112-MAL: US$11.5 million), approved in 1968, provided
for the construction of the Zomba-Lilongwe road and the financing of
studies on road transport licensing and road/rail coordination. The
Performance Audit Report on the project indicated that the objectives of
the project were achieved. Although implementation of road construction
fell one year behind schedule, the internal rate of return was
conservatively re-evaluated at 13 percent, against 12 percent at appraisal,
and traffic generation was 50 percent greater than projected. The second
highway project (credit 523-MAL: US$10.0 million) of 1974 assisted
construction of the Lilongwe - Kasungu road (113 km) and initiated the
DRIMP pilot scheme. The main road component was completed behind schedule
due to slow progress on construction by the contractor. Substantial cost
savings were realized, however, on the construction component (cement
stabilization proved unnecessary) and were used to finance the extension of
the first phase of DRIMP into three other districts. The project achieved
its institutional objectives of strengthening the Roads Department of the
MWS. According to the Project Completion Report, the economic rate of
return of the project is now estimated at 23 percent compared with 14
percent at appraisal. The third highway project financed (US$10.5 million
credit 758-MAI of 1977)for the construction of the Kasungu-Jenda road (85
km) and a feasibility study and detailed engineering design of the
Jenda-Mzuzu road. The Kasungu-Jenda road construction was completed in
June 1980, six months behind schedule. Fuel shortages due to the transport
problems in Mozambique hindered its completion. The Project Completion
Report indicates that the physical components of the project were carried
out satisfactorily. However, due to the general deterioration in Malawi's
economy in recent years, the economic return of the project is now
estimated at 8 percent compared with 14 percent at appraisal. With the
increased traffic generated by linking Halawi to the Tazara corridor, the
traffic flows and rate of return are expected to improve significantly.
The fourth highway project (credit 1099-MAL, US$33.0 million) financed the:
construction of the two-lane bituminous paved road between Jenda and Luwawa
Turnoff (32 km), and Mbowe and Ekwendeni (37 km) and improvement of the



- 13 -
existing road between Luwawa Turnoff and Mbowe (95 km) to a low gravel
standard; the second phase of DRIMP; consulting services and training;
provision of minor road maintenance equipment; and facilities in Lilongwe
for training semi-skilled MWS personnel. The maintenance study is complete
and implementation of all the other improvements is well underway.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
30.       The proposed project was prepared by the Malawi Government with
the assistance of consultants and the Association/Bank. The project was
identified in May 1981 and appraised in February/March and June/July 1983.
A report entitled -Fifth Highway Project-Staff Appraisal Report-, No.
4603-MAI, dated November 14, 1983, is being distributed separately.
Negotiations were held in Washington on October 27, 1983. The Malawi
delegation was led by Mr. C.L. Mphande. Principal Secretary, in the
Ministry of Finance. Annex III provides supplementary project data. The
AfDB participated as observers to these negotiations.
Project Objectives and Description
31.       The proposed project would assist the Government in further
achieving a balanced pattern of economic and social growth by: continuing
to improve the maintenance of main and secondary roads and the district
roads, thereby facilitating a more equitable distribution of income between
rural and urban areas; promoting the general development of the economic
potential of the northern half of the country by upgrading to paved
standard an important section of the principal North-South road; and
strengthening transport planning capacities of EPD and the MTC. It would
also provide the technical assistance necessary to complete a transport
systems study of the northern access route to the Indian Ocean. The
project would assist the Government to reach these objectives by:
(a) completing the third and last phase of DRIMP;
(b)  financing a four-year maintenance program for the main and
secondary road networks;
(c) constructing a two-lane bituminous road between the Luwava
Turnoff and Champhoyo (50 km);
(d) providing weighbridges and vehicles for axle load control;
(e) financing furniture, training aids and equipment for the
MWS's new training center in Lilongwe; and
(f) providing consultant services and training.



- 14 -
Detailed Features
The Third Phase of DRIMP
32.       The project would extend the first and second phases of DRIMP to
the remaining 11 districts of the country. Selection of the roads for
improvement and planning for maintenance units in these districts were
carried out by consultants, Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick and Partners (UK).
The project would provide for establishing and equipping of maintenance
units in each district, including a depot, housing for key staff and staff
training, and improvement of some 1,900 km of district roads. An extension
of MWS headquarters to accommodate the new rural roads division would also
be constructed. The work program for establishing the maintenance units
and the roads to be improved for the first year agreed at negotiations.
Agreement was also reached that for subsequent years, the Government, not
later than four months before the beginning of each fiscal year, would
furnish to the Association for its concurrence, the proposed work program
for that fiscal year until completion of this maintenance component
(Section 3.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Th" third
phase of DRIMP also would assist the Government in meetius Lne maintenance
needs of the District Councils by financing on a declining basis the
incremental costs for district road maintenance (para. 43). During
negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government would make
available to the District Councils, on a grant basis, the funds necessary
to maintain the roads in the districts covered under DRIMP, to the extent
the resources available to the Councils for this purpose from their own
resources are not sufficient. The system of assistance and the overall
levels needed throughout the project period were agreed with Government
during negotiations. The Government would review with the Association, not
later than four months before the beginning of each fiscal year, the
specific amounts to be made available to the District Councils for this
purpose during such year (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).   This represents a continuation of past practice under DRIMP's
second phase when Government began supplementing the Council's revenues
available for road maintenance.
Maintenance of Main and Secondary Roads
33.       The proposed project would finance the following high priority
maintenance activities: Ci) equipment (including spares and workshop tools
and equipment) for routine and periodic maintenance; (ii) single bituminous
surface resealing of about 400 km of paved roads; (iii) rehabilitating
about 70 km of paved roads; and (iv) rehabilitating/improving road
formation and drainage on over 1,700 km of gravel and earth roads, spot
regravelling about 1,200 km and full regravelling of around 430 km.
Agreement has been reached on the rehabilitation program for FY84/85,
namely that the MI road through Lilongwe (13.5 km) would be substantially
completed before the end of March 1985 as would the M8, Chikwawa-Ngabu-M19
junction be one quarter complete by that date. Detailed engineering and
tender documents have been completed for these sections. During



- 15 -
negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government would make
available to the MWS the funds necessary for maintaining the main and
secondary roads, and no later than four months before the beginning of each
fiscal year until the completion of the project, review with the
Association the amounts to be made available during the fiscal year
(Section 3-01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Road Construction
Construction of the Main North-South Road
34.       The proposed project would finance the construction to a paved
standard of the 50 km Luwawa Turnoff to Champhoyo section of the main
North-South road. Construction of this section would leave a gap of only
some 45 km of unpaved road out of a distance of some 1,100 km between
Bangula in the deep south to Karonga in the far north. The detailed
engineering for this section was completed in July 1983. financed by a
Project Preparation Facility advance. The linking of the Northern Region
with the more developed Central and Southern Regions would help redress the
regional inbalances by ensuring the timely availability of agricultural
inputs and the regular collection of crops. Moreover, the exploitation of
the Viphya forests which adjoin the road section to be paved under the
project should lead to increased traffic levels in the late 1980's (para.
45). The Government has developed a wood industries project (sawmilling
and manufacturing particle board) to utilize around 10 percent of the
Viphya wood resources. The project (appraised in October/November 1983)
will help meet Malawi's demand for timber, assist in developing the
furniture making subsector and Einance prefeasibility studies to develop
other projects (charcoal, turnpentine and small-scale paper) to utilize the
balance of the Viphya forests.
Axle Load Control
35.       To improve and expand MTC's operation of the three existing
permanent weigh bridges and to operate them on a 24 hour basis. the
proposed project includes the construction of 6 staff houses, purchase of
around 5 mobile weigh bridges, and about 5 pick-up vehicles for control
patrols. The vehicles will be used to expand the enforcement of axle load
limits and other vehicle regulations. MTC is presently training an
adequate number of staff to carry out this enlarged enforcement program.
Training Center at Lilongwe
36.       The construction of a new training center in Lilougwe. including
staff houses, classrooms, and dormitories, was financed under the fourth
highways project. The proposed project provides for equipping and
furnishing the center as well as supplying the needed teaching aides. The
center is expected to begin training in 1984.



- 16 -
Consulting Services and Training
37.       The proposed project would include consulting services to: (a)
assist MWS in preparing and carrying out the third and last phase of DRIMP
(50 man-months); (b) design the rehabilitation works for paved roads in the
second and subsequent years of the maintenance program and supervise the
work carried out by contractors (78 man-months); (c) prepare and implement
the expanded routine and periodic maintenance program and the force account
works of resealing of paved roads and the rehabilitation of earth and
gravel roads included in the maintenance program (220 man-months); (d)
complete the design and supervise the road construction from Luwawa Turnoff
to Champhoyo, (120 man-months); (e) prepare future transport projects
including detailed engineering for the Champhoyo-Mbowe road (45
man-months); (f) strengthen further EPD's Transport Planning Unit's
capacity including staff training (24 man-months); (g) complete the
transport systems study of the proposed alternative route to the North
including the TANZAM/TAZARA corridor to Dar-es-Salaam and the preliminary
design of recommended infrastructure (50 man-months); and (h) strengthening
of equipment fleet management (36 man-months) through improvements in
management systems, financing, equipment maintenance and replacement within
PVHO, and determination of those equipment services which might more
economically be obtained from the private sector. The project would also
provide assistance (25 man-months) to strengthen the capacity of the MTC's
Planning Unit to monitor conditions on the existing import/export routes
and to take appropriate action. The Government has already selected a
consultant who was previously financed by UNDP and USAID. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that: (a) the Government would consult
the Association/Bank on the recommendations of the transport systems study
before proceeding with the detailed engineering studies of the required
infrastructure (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement);
and (b) the selection of the consultants to provide technical assistance to
MWS for the road maintenance component would be completed as a condition of
effectiveness of the loan/credit (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
38.       The total project cost including taxes and duties and front end
fee, is estimated at US$84.1 million of which US$52.3 million or 62
percent, would be foreign exchange costs (costs estimates based on October
1983 prices). An allowance of 10 percent for physical contingencies has
been added to the base cost. Price contingencies for foreign exchange
costs of 8 percent for 1983, 7.5 percent for 1984, 7 percent for 1985, and
6 percent thereafter have been included in the total costs, as have
contingency allowances of 15 percent for 1983 and 1984, 14 percent for
1985, 13 percent for 1986 and 12 percent for 1987 for local cost
escalation. Details of project costs are included in the Credit/Loan
Project Summary.



- 17 -
39.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 12.4 million (US$13.1 million
equivalent) and IDA special credit of SDR 13.1 million (US$13.8 million
equivalent), and Bank loan of US$18.0 million, would finance around 57
percent of total project costs net of taxes and duties, including 73
percent of foreign exchange costs of US$38.1 million and 26 percent (US$6.8
million) of the local costs. The Bank loan would also finance the
front-end fee. The African Development Bank (AfDB) would provide a
parallel loan of US$16 million equivalent (15 million units of account) to
finance road maintenance equipment and construction including consultant
supervision of the Luwawa Turnoff-Champhoyo road. All conditions precedent
to the signing of the AFDB loan will need to be fulfilled as a condition of
effectiveness of the IDA credit (Section 6.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The Government would provide the remaining 22 percent
(US$17.6 million) of project costs, or 17 percent (US$13.8 million) if
financial assistance can be secured for the last two years of the resealing
program. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government
would provide all additional funds necessary to complete the project or
have identified alternative sources of financing of US$3.8 million for the
last two years of the resealing program (Section 3.01(a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). ODA is providing new equipment for the
resealing units in 1983-84. It might finance the materials and operating
expenses for the resealing program during the last two years.
Procurement and Disbursement
40.       MWS will be responsible for project execution apart from the
components for axle load control and technical assistance to RTC's Planning
Unit, for which MTC will be responsible, and the study of the northern
access route and the technical assistance for transport planning for which
EPD will be responsible. These agencies are fully capable of implementing
their respective components. Road construction, costing some US$12.9
million (net of taxes and duties), will be tendered under unit price
contracts awarded after international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with guidelines of AfDB. The rehabilitation work on paved
roads, costing some US$11.9 million, will also be awarded under unit price
contracts after ICB, in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. However,
proceeds provided under the IDA Special Fund credit for this component may
only be used to finance expenditures for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, eligible Special Fund countries.
41.       Contracts for construction of depots including housing for the
third phase of DRIMP and extension of MWS headquarters (US$2.1 million),
and housing for axle load control (US$0.1 million) due to their small sizes
and widely dispersed locations, will be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding satisfactory to the Association or by force account if
the local contractors are unavailable. Resealing of some 400 km of paved
roads (US$7.7 million) will be carried out by force account to provide a
minimum capacity for resealing in MWS. The rehabilitation works on earth
and gravel roads (US$11.7 million), because of their small size and
scattered locations, would gnerally be suited for implementation by force



- 18 -
account. However, the Government intends to create an opportunity for
further developing the local construction industry and has grouped about 30
percent of the work into small packages suitable for local contractors.
The remaining 70 percent of the program will be carried out by force
account. Design and supervision of road construction and overlays for
paved rehabilitation as well as technical assistance for the road
maintenance program, the third phase of DRIMP, the northern access route
systems study and the preparation of future projects will be carried out by
consultants employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association in accordance with Bank guidelines (Section 3.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Approximately 650 man-months of consultant
services estimated to cost US$6.4 million are required at an average cost
of about US$10,000 per month for salaries, international travel and
subsistence. They also include about 50 man-months for overseas training
and fellowships at an average cost of around US$2,000.
42.       Tools, furniture and other diverse minor items for the Lilongwe
Training Center (US$0.2 million) and for axle load control (US$0.3 million)
will be procured through local shopping. To maintain standardization and
interchangeability of equipment and spare parts, road maintenance equipment
for the new district maintenance units under the third phase of DRIMP
(US$1.l million including some US$0.2 million for equipment to strengthen
the existing improvement units) would be obtained either from manufacturers
supplying such items to the previous phases of DRIMP, by extending existing
contracts if still in effect at the time of Credit/Loan signing, or by
local shopping. Other maintenance equipment, including spares, for main
and secondary roads as well as for rehabilitation of gravel and earth roads
(about US$6.3 million) will be procured following international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines and AfDB guidelines.
All documentation for equipment procurement under international competitive
bidding financed by the Bank Group would be subject to review prior to
issuance of tenders. Bidding packages for civil works estimated to cost
US$500,000 or more (that is about 50 percent of the total Bank
Group-financed civil works to be procured under competitive bidding) would
be subject to the Bank Group's prior review of bidding documents. The
bidding packages estimated to cost less than US$500,000 equivalent and all
other contract documentation will not be routinely reviewed but MWS will
maintain copies of bid evaluations and final contracts which will be
subject to spot review by Bank Grour supervision missions.
43.       Proceeds from the proposed credit would be disbursed on the
following basis: (i) 90 percent of expenditures on civil works under the
third phase of DRIMP for district road improvements and depots, housing and
MWS headquarters extension; (ii) 80 percent of total expenditures for civil
works for main and secondary roads in the rehabilitation program for paved
roads and for earth and gravel roads; (iii) 90 percent of expenditures on
civil works for housing for the axle load control; (iv) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures and 90 percent of local expenditures for equipment,
vehicles and spare parts; (v) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 90
percent of local expenditures for weighbridges and associated equipment,



- 19 -
and imported items to be provided for the Lilongwe training center; (vi) 90
percent of total expenditure for locally produced items to be provided for
the Lilongwe training centre; (vii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and
50 percent of local expenditures for consultants services; and (viii) for
incremental maintenance expenditures on district roads for each district
being brought into the maintenance program subsequent to completion of road
improvements: 75 percent of incremental costs during the first year of
maintenance: 50 percent during the second year of maintenance; and 25
percent during the third year. The declining IDA financing of the
incremental cost of maintenance would be matched to government's financial
assistance to the District Councils. The AfDB loan would finance 80
percent of total expenditures for the construction of the Luwawa
Turnoff-Champhoyo road, 90 percent of of total expenditures on consulting
services for construction supervision,and 100 percent of foreign and 90
percent of local expenditures for maintenance equipment (vehicles and
graders) including spare parts. All Bank/IDA disbursements will be fully
documented except for expenditure under force account for certain civil
works which will be made against statements of expenditure, to be issued by
the technical assistance consultants. A schedule of estimated
disbursements is provided in the Credit/Loan and Project Summary.
Project Accounts and Reports
44.       Separate accounts for the project would be maintained by MWS for
each component. During negotiations, agreement would be reached that these
accounts would be audited by the Auditor General or other independent
auditors acceptable to the Association and the audit report furnished to
the Association not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year
(Section 4.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Agreement
would also be reached that the Government would monitor progress of the
project and not later than six months after the closing date, would prepare
and submit to the Association, a full report evaluating the project
(Section 3.04(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). During
negotiations, the specific progress reporting requirements will be
discussed and agreed.



- 20 -
Benefits and Risks
45.       The proposed project would yield considerable benefit to the
Malawi economy. District roads to be improved under the project have
economic rates of return of at least 12 percent. The road maintenance
component of the project will have an economic return of 62 percent.
It is expected that the savings in vehicle operating costs and time will be
passed on as lower freight rates to the shippers and receivers of freight.
Extension of DRIMP to the remaining districts will enable rural people
throughout Malawi to benefit from improved access to markets, supplies and
public services. Paving of the 50 km section of the North-South road
between Luwawa Turnoff and Champhoyo will yield an ERR of 12 percent for
domestic traffic only including a modest growth in transport attributable
to the wood products industry. Since the justification of constructing the
Luwawa Turnoff-Champhoyo section would be enhanced by the transport of
export/import traffic over the road using the port of Dar-es-Salaam, the
economic analysis considers the economic impact of building not only this
section but also the adjacent section between Champhoyo and Mbowe and the
linkage between Karonga and Ibanda in the North, which would be required
for export/import traffic to move on the international route. Based on
this analysis, construction of the 50 km Luwawa Turnoff and Champhoyo road
would yield an ERR of 29 percent.
46.       The principal concern associated with the road construction
component is that the international route via Karonga and Dar-es-Salaam may
not become available for Malawi's international traffic. However, since
good progress has been made by Malawi and Tanzania in agreeing on an action
program for development of the route, it is unlikely this route will not b:
established. Its development is quite consistent with the objectives of
the Southern Africa Development Coordination Conference of which both
Malawi and Tanzania are members. It is unlikely that the transport
problems in Mozambique will be solved quickly. The deterioration of
facilities on both the Beira and Nacala rail lines are so severe that, even
with ample financing, several years would be required after political
stability is achieved to resume satisfactory operations. Overall, it
appears prudent for Malawi to undertake the proposed investments in the new
international route to avoid potentially heavy economic penalties in the
years ahead; completion of this link may be seen as an investment in
insurance against the contingency of continued disruption of the Mozambique
route. In any case, the additional work on the North-South route will
enhance regional integration in Malawi.
47.       A risk for both DRIMP III and the maintenance program is the
possibility that Government's financial resources for maintenance of both
the national and district road networks may be inadequate. To minimize
this risk, agreement was reached on government financing of maintenance
costs (paras. 32 and 33). The Bank will help cushion the burden on
Government by financing incremental maintenance costs for DRIMP on a
declining basis.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
48.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Malawi and tle Association, the Special Fund Credit Agreement between
the Republic of Nalawi and the Association as Administrator of the Special
Fund, and the draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Malawi and the
Bank, as well as the Recommendation and Report of the committees provided
for in Article V, Section 1 {d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately.
49.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. All conditions precedent to effectiveness of the AfDB loan
agreement and the selection by Malawi of consultants to provide technical
assistance to MWS for the road maintenance component would be conditions
of effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement (Section 3.03 and 6.01
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
50.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit and proposed loan comply
with the Articles of the Association and the Bank and the proposed Special
Fund Credit complies with Resolution No. IDA 82-6 of the Association.
51.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed IDA
Credit, proposed IDA Special Credit and Loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments                                       By Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
November 14, 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                                                                                         ANNE I
-22 -                                       Page I of 6
r x B L E 3J
rALAUI                 - SOCIAL ISOLCATORS DATA TA E
MALAaI                                REPEBESX GRUPS (hELUilTD AVERAES) la
nDslb                    C(sr fAbEC   ESMtAEE) /b   -
19bf!t        O..'  511            ;AFRICA S. OF SAAitA    AFRICA S_ OF SAELABA
ADJUSTED LXRDWtEST MAnXS
PRDtAAT:  TOTAL                                35.>       b62.u               b3.9                       97_2
.MIALE-                             45._0       *3.0               7j_0                      103.1
FLMVALL                    .        Zb_U        5L_u               5u._                     S  5
SrwatY: trL                         l_u        '_u          4.                1:.5                       17 2
SLALE                    1_0         3.0         5_u               Ln_7                       Z3..5
VSEIAIZ                  0_3         1_0         2.u.1                                        1;_:
VOCTOI&AI.CZ UIF SicusaujRY)         23_b         2_9         4.9                7_3                        5.2
PUfLIreEtOEir MATIo
P&L.AKY                            4L_9       U4.u         65.0               16.4                      42.9
SECrDAY                            14.0        16_U        21.0               25.1                      23.7
ADULT LI TRAAr KRTE (t                -_         22fl-/      25_0               3b.S                       37_1
mom
PASSESS=  CARSI loLSaSD POP           1_9         2.2         2_4/i              3.3                       LS_d
RADIO CEIi'ERSITl0L`SJ2  POP        Zl_.        23.5        LS_t5.             :3.3                      97.5
TV RZCEICVESrdo`SAM  POP              1.8          __           _                2'2                       Its
;LSf;lFA  C-.aaY CECERaL
ITECrSEr) CIRcLtAnDS
PER TUCSA3 PoPCATIO                   _           _.         5.3                :.7                       18.2
Ci     AUWAL ATTsDnna    iwrra        0.3 .0.                 0'315              l_u                       0..
TotAL LABOZ FOCCE (CIADUS)         1570.0      L9al_O      Z593.0
FM:LE (PERcESr)                    38.7        36.1        372                31.5                      36.1
ARICULTURE (FENCeST)               9Z_0        d9_0        b6.0               b6.9                       5.no
immra (Emace.i)                     3._        ;4U          5.0               'J.b                      17.5
AWrTIC1PArlU RATE (PeAM3T)
TOAL                               A5.9        43.Y        &1.6               4U.9                      37J_
-51_      :55.3         5Z_.               53.U                      47.1
Ft.ALE                             34.5        32.9        3U_.5               o.9                       27.0
tuocioXI oLrzidA  RAtIo               13          1_1         1.2                1.2                        1.3
Ins DKSrRtaDns
PEKC-ST OF P.LWATZ LICOS
KECEIVED Si
HIiGiEST 5X OF aUSaSe0LDS            _-        3Z_b/f        .-                 ..                         -.
NII1GESI ZI OF DIISEEILDS            --         50_67_                    
LOUEST 20: OF .IDSSEIWS              .-        10_4/f
LUAJCsl 40& UF dIOUSELuS             _         21_5 ,__
_W -
ESTITEO ABSOLUTE fuFEIrfr Iscu:
LEreL (USS PEL CAPITA.)
URSa                                 _           __       :23_Ufc            Lo5.9                      534.2
RURAL                                __          __        99.0/c             57.4                      255.9
ESTML'ATV  RELATIVE POVERTY  iS!:
LLVLL CLSS PEr CAelTA)
SULtan.                              ..          ..        5.t.Ic            l                         -91_564.1
LSTATEU POP. Y  ELL_ S ABSULUTE
POVL.CY LLatE LEVEL (4)
UAW;                                                       25 .  Z5.U/c       39.5
AURAL                                d_ __                   .u72             69bU.u
NSO! AVALAC6BL
Sor. APPLLCICjLi
:  r E S
/a  The grvup averages for each inLdicaor are popuLaLionreighted arithmletiC means. Coverage of countrLes a;eng the
lndicators depends on avaiLability of data and Ls not uniform.
/b  Unless othersise noted. Data for 19bO- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -DatA for 1970 .bet'een 19b9u and
1971; and data for Nosc Rtecent Esti.ateC betseem 1979 and 1951.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1962; If 19S; La 1972; /h 19ob; f/ 1978;d     1975.
flay 1953



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
.ALAWL                 - s:CLAL LsaLCArofs IMrA sea
.Af                                  I|EFBEMCE1 CRflUI zfl i arUa AEES) Is
.^asr                    (Ssr  asr  SMLIAE1) lb
Igbolb     l b                     La' r                 Srv    .CE
AMA  S SQ19.     -                 AFRICA S_ 0  SAKAR     AFRICA S- OF SAgAtA
AW (5 U1. W)X
TOTZAL                             115.5       LL          115.5
ACICULTMAL                          38.0        39.5
W  FM CweTa CM)                        50.0        70.0       200.0              254.6                   2247.9
(LOCRAMS Of CAL ErtqIIALj             -.                    59_0              79-                       2;,,
Oman. -M VMIAL SZaflStCS
nUriogLATs,,_.-YL  (CTILRSASS)   3419.U       4513.u      6246.0u
L5W FUPULAtrLi ( 3F C  OAL;          -- -L)      0.1 9.0.5                                              aS
POFULAriu  rJECrILuis
roF0LAU  Is Mr  ZOmj oIL.                                 n. -)
brArLusAa erLArul   'tiLL)                                SU 
TEA& ?STATLO,Agy rp_? MEACOIiD                          2lSS
FUPCI.ATIOF uissn
Puma,;rwr. D"35tTt
PERt 50. Ce.                      2a.9        i. t        5l.V              _95                       5.5
FEM 9. C.- aI iat_ LA            950.        114.3s      15.1               9 _1                     13
PuruatloS A" slnucruiE (C)
0-1o tc                          _5.5        4g.-a I65                      cs_u                     45.9
l T Tr                            52.1        50.D       4;9.o               5Z.:                     51.2
*S a5D AM0UiC                      2.                      3.Z               2.9                       2
Panr..atno% cmWIu SATE (Z)
XOTAL                              2.;         2.8         2.9               2.8                       Z 2.
UABS                               4.S         6.b        -.0                L-'
CRUDE  ILAS; RAE (fEa TiUS)        5.l         50-1        56.2              47.9                      47.6
a E paO KATE (Per  TeIS}            27.1        1.2        20 1..2                                     1S.2
uROSs SEgUUccrtIO  RATE              3.4         3.-4        3.ts              3.Z 
acwrwes- xwi  nrwus)
USr-s (Z OF PaRReI kAn)
rawAD  ia0    1  u
"U UF FUQU ftLW- rk "MLA
(So9-7l lw us  m.u St as.                                   Vu
PER CAPIrA stiFFLY OF
CAIARLES (4 OF aEk4JtkqEnS)       95-u       1u           94.l3u             Io                       Y7_1
FrOTEIZ (sRs.'U Eir  DAY)         nl.u        7Z1.a        s.u               51.:                     5b.u
uF bIDIO A.LiL AND ML-SE         14.0        19.0        19.U/C            L15L                      17.2
161w (hAS 1-4) DEA   A=             49.3        454         3.2               25.7                      23.0
LIFE ERPECT. AX 311  (YEAR)         37.-        -1.6e        .u               47J.                      S1S
IFArT HOSt. ATE (p_  rtiU)        20g.8       193.   leS9.L                 l2.)                      117.b
aCCoSS TO SAFE ATER (Zio)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        5.0od              24.7                     25.4
uws                                 ..          ..        70.ofl- 5.e                                 Zu.4
RURAL                               ..          ..        29.d15            15.3                      12.3
-                ~~~~~~~ACCESS ITo EWOItTA DISPOSAL                           9d-                831.
(C OF POPClAr.Jb)
rurAL                               ..          ..         ..               .11..
UlflhiI.AttvS FIR FBYSIC1AZt   35250.0     34.3.u    6LSU.uL                   .                        .
Put. PER 1URS2;U frsuT            294.        905u.u      38Ju.ufc          J4S.3                     224
PutP. PR aUSPT.A SEAU
TorTAL                            7u.u       b5J.0       740.0             1183.2                   1075.4
120.0/.    1bO.u       60.0/c           J3.0                      40z.J
RURAL                           I3XO.0.u     9ou.0 o     4u.0k            3177.5                    3s2e.7
ALRISSOiS PEtR  USeIrAL sBE                     32.         39.v.
ATERA4ZE SIZE UF IlUSEHOLO
TOTAL                               ...
URASP                               ...
KLRL                                ..-        5.uL,.                          .                        .
AVERAZE NO. OF PEKSORS/VROI
TOTAL                               .
RURAL                               . '         ' '                            -
ACCESS TO car. (:Z UF LEiLLIE)
rTrAL                                .,
UHBAS                               ..        10.-Olf       ....
RUN...                              ..          ......
_     ____                                                                      ____   



-W- -  5143-  133433  41543  343344W                   .  33*
44 333  43 ft'31  4..-  -On 354   P4*-fP  43  44 443444 3 3t3 -41233344P*4 -1 *33435 13Q"   41  4-3
453   .~5P-.13   45 1541 -_    4443   33              4414                                34344 434.333311444                       -  (*13- A.343U4
J.34.3 l*441  wl33-14  .3 1-14  - s41a   431*403433.4315  443e.34 -.j lW1                                                  4.334  .14.4
.333  .-333   p-5.44-4143   44 -          44d VIP  4  41453.33.3- 0                             -*1    -44-  - (433 -3              -J4343 314114   4
T-M.344  4134.4 -4444 il-S  -rn  :.43     43341-n 3-  443-I3 31433433  3431 P-LOS  33 G                                     ..T z* 443  4--031  Wr33
- 1.41   * .414- (1323  44) 51*431433.313344   31313  43~341.34--JW53  4. 4,-w 1-f  (333-11 3) 5143   14434433
p-   AV..w         44134   144z91--4 434s34331d4-s- -4.43343 -1T-3  - 443.*4.  0334
-.4n, A 4  3.M .              M4   4    3S3  0? 3433 ---4  0? 1343313r ------*           1433345-.331333  033   3 a44  4 14   i                         1
4-19           -      ~      ~     ~                       4443 34 4344~.3 3343434          --6 - .4.4   54141113  434-34  4344 a-3
*   4-4 4.14n.   ..Ml4- 41443  4-  343441   .3,116 3lp-  341)411                           43 [1 --W  -331. 14433    W 4-34    -M5   of333  4.-2 3a4   "--413WI
3433344334  II4 A~ -o34-   134-A -            t423  43433.                         -144- a3   -40   -           -   W..-  14-3 34 4-        .. - J_  _ 17.
4. 44441544 --s7l1  4  fs3.4  4314  -W(33I114  .3445a                                        44 -    9341541 311.43P.  p 144434.     -44   43-m.. 3441-. 3
V- W,3~~~ 'A-S    bg     ~    ~     4241 344  p4  3e3.41  3-a    4444. 34l3-                          -34*-   -43...1   3 444  333
*oo   1434.344141S.   44      -       JW 4-99 4334  43...447  34                                           3)M   3131344 41)3 *.4.m    3  M314  p43343
.35.345=   351.1441    443 4 -  14 3434 - (44413.34t  33.-                    *1         .1 3 -_340   -3.344 p34  444333 -.-    ---4 1    4- -l-d
431  434  0*  43  1334334-                                943-P35 44444p11444444 1.4   -                  _434    4.     334
84443  12   3439333334433 .13434  3. p5413=        314.         -.,33 -.   433434 3317-444a 3.334   4.44) I434
s-S -3413-4343       -135144444433-31-T                                                     --J331  3.3   334fj ~ 3 l-V3.3   541.31)3   34    "W43  344341  3343.   4
P-1    -d            I-W   -13                         p-M~~~~~~4*  94  *44 &-Ud344133443 4-.3 434.340 -2533444  133313- P33
-W 34-  43  A.344  - 343   44  344.3  35-1.3-1344                                    4 -1-  3.343t,4135                   *     33- 43944141443  J      33
*33  3313143  3344  3444  3554439   34                                           4      J34 343   4314.131A444   934 534                        l ;44334 .3 -33
P745  143.3 -Lf I53331334 434   3-313-  34  533   314-.43i -    43_ 3143  ..lj W144   4333''
3.31441 A  344313443944.341341  43l 44 1533  1414--v333   4. v3                    -t444  -~ 54 -v 143-14 3335)414      4431 
54 341434  .1  444333333. (343444345044 .3344144343                                      .--4453I
.33445135 p4313444 444304           344-35 44444   33434   I4434-  .3=4131.3.1434
4343  4.tl  43233313-433 4   -4433 4434-ap333
4434134133143344   43  3-  ~      44.              44                     4   0.3 A.1 ...1.... I..4433543434143.1.3415
.dOW Tdd~~~~~~~~ Tn.933. wt -1W14333343434444353443  40    (53314.  344 114 .43
.4344 44 p444  -3I.-3   31343.4-                   . 44134 3-4314  434-341 *44O3W  3434 l-341
-4(441  4-  44  A-2334153V        )31 J    3543-34 34.3144-3  11.4-P33   1413  34-4                                           Wv-.0.4    344331  14  34-1  443334
11's Vft  -^n~-*n-S 411-3 --,-.34A354                                                           13-44  W4 0'O4  3                 "44      3443344 
34.4  34414.334.414 A5.3    -d315 P11"' P1444.      -T4 .14-4.                      A-3144.34 344 "3435 _3  - 43A          3434344   4.441444
-334.1*444.41 33434433 54 4434433449 34. 44341W.9 '434W4114433  4- 4133  33  3.34   -  3143
4944.   -43333                     4-' 44.3131-33   34   44       914- -  P-4  -4.454344  -44
4434.34*343334-4414.3433333.34- 54415-43453433540!6                                                     3
4149433*954131434 -          43*3 -  434344  44.5044.44                               -.1314.14- ~n   13434344  335443  344-3.44433  444-4 -..
34-4s43-  34 Aq            33J    33433414           4   4.A 3~A- t 1-10-                     434433-        1-314   741   3313  P. 434444- 
13344  - 3444743334 p- 34-343      - p- 4.  W414     444343013                                   s- 443.53313  14M- 44 14447  433343   444.  4141 A
_IP:PW3                                                                                                                                mb! 311  133434043443155534. 443.43.4   401 44-531-343 .14
444.4               304 3314. 444  -   14W4344   42444 344442345                   -3
T-;     54113-4 4110344-p_443-44244                                    3=. W34A44.1334 4.         -34  --12441111  434543  14Q 3441343
14114-.3  4444133*3A.         43 -43.432             -3353444   1-434-44                -4434    4P443443   1434444                           1341  434-44
-  433  3 '44    "S4414      3433- AT  -4443   I4134P 44 34.14 -.   -       43-344j 13W-344344113543 d3133-                 4 51- Wrt M
S -   ~~-     -           W _l~~-423      -    Vt.f   -              -P9- 334434  343ft433 3  l1 423.---141413.3 -J43 --J31e    344.      -
4-    a 145.WPA- W, 3  24-145433-4.331110       s -443).43    ft. 344-dF A-                    43415434444A-    -F44 -433  4-  4-J-                              M
A- J.  4-p-   -4i3413  4.1141443332-v                 Vp-          m 4414134   4I- -M143   43-- 4-  - S 4-33344    W  qw-.w43144
44  7f134   -43434  -.434447  41*91443   3444- 44443.424            144.3 3 9     -    44343w 44413353334.3434 - 44 34-41  444.3143
314=833  530    44334   4344   444443 ;                                                                                                 4343..34434
35.   - 3   44      p53   33313   5              4 33   .13                                                  44  334   4334   545
3imnivAv   Ae-rm   j~~~~~~~43431394 4444341343 4433 14 . -)41443311
ut-i     s3g~ ~~~~~~~441434741 4044 33 -(44 3  33 343411



BEST COPY AV1LABLE
Page 4 of 6
p}pamt        62 6Z 16 - ( -WI. =
__ Per  qtusWm - (VW8
CullI  iS Sag19JDI Dft  D5 l
Cn 1326W                               8.3       5.5      0.6     -038      3.0 Z.6   3.0    3.5   3.9                    4.2
_~Jm1~e                 !R469        23       4.5    -5.6        3.6     6.2             2     3.2     36    3.8       3.8
t7~uy                         m           12223J    6.5      0.        .      -3J              2.5   30      3J    4.4       4.9
5erdcas                       515.0       11J       6.0      5.9      -3.2     3.2             2.5     9     3.4   3.5       4.3
l-ntIon                 1227A         941     19        4.1      L6       2.5                   L 1     2.1   3.1       3.4
Gr                              2W.0        65.8     -5.5   -25.2    -177    -1.5                 2  W         9.    6.1       6.3
o    aE GS               2973        -4.      246.4    30.5     -6I     -Z16.2            8.5   5.9    5.6    5.        51
1       af aof                 Lm2           4        Z.1    -Z.5      1.2    -3                5.3   4.9    4.6    339       4.2
km.  iinclml m1w_                563        253      -36.2   -36.6      10D     35.5              -     -      -      -         -
aP_d_ fac (C19780D)                   1C0D    13.4   118.8    1371         16L.9
DEjinUe    CIus/mw)                    1.15    LZZ      1231      1.119    0319
s    ef at .m   t  rae  Pdlc   CO
Cat Pc)b                                          (at        15 8 i9  m)
M7    1988   1985   m99m                            _75.D       D5GO      1585-9
Cim    e    pmhe                                100.0  100D  M0    100                               4.9         W.         4.4
A1aa1n-                                       36J1.8   37.,  40.9  39.9                             5.0         4.2        3.9
Ixhtny                                         19.0   19J   172   17.9                              4.3         0.3        5.2
serwicm.4.2  6429   41.9  62.2                                                                     5i           Z.3       4.5
C *m-Vml                                        8341  8827  89.4   857                                6.6         2.7        3.5
C0s  1int                                       33J7  15.6   192   ZZD                                4.2        -1J         7.2
_ I     Fs                                      32    26.6   29.6   302                               8J          2.A        5.2
1!t. OWs                                        46.4  40.9   3LZ   3.4                                3.2         0.3        4.5
m 1m    a .16    7.5  -                             .62           -          -
m Zf a
1967    1970171    975/76  1DI/212  1581/
PM=IC Fr
QaIMrt   -                                             141      155       16.5    17.4    16.6
Ciu        _ ing.1i1m                                  U.1    16.5        15.4    23w9     17.6
Su9plm (+) or d   t -)                                 -3.9    .-1        1.1    -6.5      -1.0
cqlt.       10w.                                        4.7    12.4       12.9    11-3      8.5
FmmllP flldz                                            227    11.2       8.8    102        5.7
1975.0  I98883  1985.9
aw paiti ine CZ)                                          5.6      31      4.4
OW per emits wgaf c       CO)                             1.9      0.2      1.6
Bx!w   wzsjmz g7.th me (W                                 6.1      139     3.1
6.4      741     4.6
?hzgI  v       Me                                         0.12     0.13    0.23
1Cus eidt1dLy                                            -02       01      1.0
b P doje n ym t at          -



- 26 -BEST CG$Py AtrAI1ABLE
ANNS I
Pagei 5 oE 6
kR.albin     : oZZli -(FIdL91B.  _l
CI Pe Cqdta : US          - (19BI)
A(lOmh=e (2)
an         JB G 1908   197B 9Q DIB   MM  DI                         IS    L91      q       u
EXML IBME
_wmU   eqm                                   25064      -95   25.4   239   -9.7  -32                      8.5   6.2    5.6   5.0    5.0
prmz                                      237.3       -9.5   25.9   21.1  -9J    2.2           B     J         6.3    5.7    5.1    5.1
Whiacm                     I9.l                       -8.8  172  151.4  -9j *"                          4.0    40    4.0- 4.0       45
MmxbmudLue fffoz=                 2273       23D0   0.1  -5.2    14  -22                       7.0   5!9    5.1   3.9   462
Fbxd                                        9D0       23.5    0.0  9m    DB89  86                      1.9    OD0    L3    2.4    Z.9
Petwl                                      48D         8.1   29D0  -8J7   -5A        -2.0               2J    2.4    2.8    2.9   3.Z
Fad-   d q*dp=                             58J       54. D  17.8  IJ79  IJ7. O    Z5                  23.1  15.2  IOuti   6.3   6.6
Otba                                       111z       13D0    *5  3Z7   -2 -22                          1.5   2_0    2.4    2i   2L8
plc lk                                               L W115  IOD.0W.  1133   9i9              9li  105J   It  11.012.6   U33 6
gdee4-                                            87JJ  MUO  ll J    95-5  93.J                     9L4  ID76   1161   MA   132 1
TM    lec -rkI.   123J0  IIO 9.1  Li" lW4                                                              93As 9&6   IM1.6  IMA   ILl
Car ea        pem)                                    (at   atet D79 vd_)
E4mM  ~~IIOD0  mmD  IOO    9mo                                                              9z6         2.2       5.1
PZI-Y                         9~~2.6  8113   Y"     nJ7                                   S'3        37         5.1
HWE=    e                                7.4   11J7   6.2    6.3                                   17.8        L6         5.3
impmts                         ~IDOD0  MDDD   IODD  ItlO                                    14         i-ZD       4.6
ra                                        4 9    5.1    4.3   4.1                                   49i       -.5         3.0
perl                                      9.1   16.9   B.1   16.9                                   S3          0.2       3.2
ma;7m  as eq tp                          26.5   27.8  34D   39.1                                     1D0        44         7.5
0tE                                      6l.5   5D.2  436   39.9                                   --45        -4j        2.8
shoe CE {d idh          9        e   s ScE Ted    h                 9= cf TZW   ith
IbTdm   1 __c   (2)             UNIGD   _mw            M  2      ovr. Sal   Ol P             C2)
19w    1L975    19E0            1970     1975    19D              WO          L97519D
E-s65.3  76.2    690                                                D     U13  ID.3    7.0            2      L4     1     1    5 7     .0
I                               56J~~~~~~~~~~~-.   6L8  75D0    262      14.5     oD0            190         2DJ7         19.0



dEST COPY AVAILABLE                                                  -
ANNEX 1
Page. 6 of 6
pquiatin    : i6226 (d-191.    ) )
CIP Per Cmpta: IEaO-(1981)
HUM  -  IAN3E OF PXU1. MI. CAPrmL AND M
(flia.  1S att    pln)
Ahal                                          P* 1915
1978   1979   IMZ   1        9     8 3          Da5 r6 9ga
MANE OF P      S2. 7
Nts if p   ad   vn23 .) D                        41 .1  35S9.1  293.7                             366  31.8  433JI    4.3  507
Of %idch  Ibd.zli f.o.b                 18.,  222.6  289.5  290.2  238.2                         249.9  305.5  3593  40.6  469.0
,,,m, af poad  ..vi                      409.0  56.3  592.6  53.0  424.9                          4M6.0  519.1  5753  630.6  697.9
Of smidr IbrclE   ob.               2    3.0  310.2  311.0  206.4  212.1                         2444   28.1  321.4  356.4  396.2
NMttraufem                               5.9  -0.4  -6.4   -1.4   -.6                            -4.5  -5.0  -6.0  -6.5  -7.5
Dalmt aem ot                           -166.2 -251.8 -22.3  155.4 -2B.6                         -171.9 -1523 -147.5 -52.8 -164.7
Privte direct 1wm                          9.7   13.5   6.3   6.0(e) 6.0(e)                         6.0   7.0   8.0   9.0   10.0
OEf1ALa1gs  t aid                         3.9   46.6  50.0   49.9   3Z.7                           49.5  55.0   61.0  653   70.5
36 3m  (net)                             117.0  V0.1  127.0  91.4  36.9               l1.    49.2  61.7  14.4  140.5
OffidaL                                 55.0  58.0  99.9  78.4  65.J                              37.5  91.4  86.8  125.6   1.0
Pitjime                                 62.0   3.1   27.1   13.0  -29.3                          48.9  -62.3  -25.1  112    9.5
(ter Ite                                   2.5  76.6  51.6  -15.6   25.6                           3S1   25.6  35.2  -1J -45.1
*am   in zez(- - (--   mm)                2B.1   9.0  -9.6   23.7   26.4                           40.0  -6.9  -9.4  -9.2  -11.2
Izteriutlml rnegwe                        72.2  63.2  72.8  49.1   22.7                            32.   41.6  51.0  60.2  71.4
ioifdd&iGld                              -      -      -      -      -                            -       -      -      -   - -
iez i esm tbe1  ta                         2.1    1.4   1.5    LI    0.5                            0.8   0.9   1.0   1.1   1.2
ME^L GUPIL AND  r
Gms D                                    175.5  171.5  M9.8  1792  100.2                          109.3  173.1  179.B  231.0  215.4
CtEfidal                                38.9   46.6  50.0  49.9  32.7                             49.5  55.0  61.0  653   70.5
CsImm1   m                               64D.0   42.0  59.3  44.5   393                          45.2  9B.2  85.9  112.7  13.
c                                      15.0   15.7   17.7   15.1    43                           9.0   14.   19.4  22.6  23.3
mm                                     0.0    0.0    13    0.5   0.0                             0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
ML                                    018.   14.4  15.1   13.2   7.1                            311   77.3   55.4   771   71.0
Otlur                                   1.0   11.9  3Z.5   162    7.9                            4.4   6.7   11.0  12.9   163
_    I mlban                            92.0   03.0  100.6  86.5   3.2                           146  19.9  32.9  53.0  67.3
OMffIdl Bt Cue    t                    8.0   10.0   22   12.7   0.6                              5.0   5.5     l    12.2  163
me                                     3.0   I2      7.6   25.7  20.9                            1.3    28    6.8   16.2  21.0
OdSr  1"dilaL                         6.0   5.1   6.9    1.8   1.6                              2.4   3.7   6.0    89   11.6
PEivate                                75.0   55.0  57.9  46.3   5.1                             S.9   7.9  12.   15.7  18.4
Ddt Cbsuatlng ad Msnbl                 504.1  510.6  646.8  685.4  669.8                        69.3  738.5  8002  914.6 205.1
oEfal                                 350.9  316.4  418.9  460.5  493                          535.2  62.7  713.6  83.1  970.2
PZWae                                 1532  19.2   D.9  224.9  231.5                           154.0  1118   86   75.4  8S.9
Ud dsm  Df                             215.0  195.0  171.5  199.1  136.9                         176.5  2.7  3653  420.7  475.6
Tita SErNil  Payzs                      40.5  45.1   70.5   $8D.  789                            130.2  13.0  116.9  118.5  110.1
Ligarest                               16.6  24.3  36.6  49.2   3.3                             43.5   37.2  33.2  32.0  35.4
Dn 0mm and  Es_dm             r        5.2    1.6   3.0   9.8   19.9                            15.6  29.9   25.6  35.2   372
Pa,    _:smpite                          17.1   16.5   19.6  27.3   26.9                          42.2  36.6   27.0  24.5  20A
A-g m t Ro  co umn1m(:C                    4.5    83    5.7    6.8   7.4                            6.5   7.7   6.1   7.1    7.6
OMfIda                                   2.5   2.5   2.7   4.6        -                            -      -      -      -      -
MIte                                     11.3  12.5   10.6   16.7    -                             -      -      -      -      -
AFwelttyi Ef nw ma(ye)                    29.4  18.4  23.9  30.0  246                               29.1  24.6   9.9   26.7   24.6
OffEdal                                  36.4   31.5  32.3  35.4      -                             -     -      -      -      -
Muite                                    5.7   6.9   103    5.6 -  -                               -      -      -      -      -
As : of Debt Outstanding
at End of December 31. 1981
MaturLty structure of debt outstanding
Mturities due within 5 year                       33.4
Maturities due vithtn 10 years                    47.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due vithin first year                     5.3



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page I of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1983)
Bank
incl.
Loan or                                                          Third                   Un-
Credit No.    Year    Borrower         Purpose                   Window    IDA        disbursed
Four loans and 16 credits have been fully disbursed               71.20   L31.63
711-MAI      1977    Malawi           Water Supply                          7.00       1.13
1610-HAI      1978    INDEBANK         First DFC                   3.00                 0.25
857-HAI      1978    Republic of      National Rural
Malawi           Development
Program I                          22.00        5.67
910-HAI      1979                     Education III                        14.50       3.84
992-HAI      1980                     National Rural
Development
Program II                         13.80        7.33
1099-MAI      1981      -              Highway IV                           33.00a      9.52
1123-MAI      1981                     Education IV                         41.00b     24.75
2027-MI       1981                     Technical Assistance        1.00                 0.33
1183-MAI      1981       -             National Rural Development
Program III                        7.30c       5.43
1272-MAI      1982       -             Lilongwe Water Supply                            3
Eng. Project                       4.00        3.24
1330-MAI      1983                     Fifth Education Project              34.00      32.63
1343-MAI      1983      -              NRDP IV                              10.60      10.60
1351-MAI      1983                     Health Project                        6.80       6.80
1352-MI       1983                     Smallholder Fertilizer                5.00       5.00
TOTAL                                               75.20   330.63
of which has been repaid                             1.81     4.40
amount sold
of which repaid
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA1                     73.39   326.23
TOTAL undisbursed                                    0.58   115.94      116.52
a Credit of SDR 25.9 million.
b Credit of SDR 32.2 million.
C Credit of SDR 6.5 million.
d Credit of SDR 3.6 million (not yet effective)
NOTE:  The status of the project listed in Part A is
described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA
financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors
on April 30 and October 31.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. IFC INVESTMENT IN MALAWI
September 30, 1983
Total
Investment   Fiscal                           Type of                            Held    Undis-
Number         Year     Obligor               Business   Equity   Loan  Total  by IFC  bursed
---(US$ Million)-
326-HAI       1976/    David Whitehead       Textiles       -      10.8  10.8    6.1
618-MAI       1982     & Sons (Malawi)
Limited
362-MAI       1977/    Dwangwa               Sugar          -      9.9   9.9    8.8
1981     Sugar Corpora-
tion Limited
434-MAI       1979     Investment and        Development  0.6        -    0.6    0.6       -
Development          Finance
Bank of Malawi       Company
502-MAI       1980     Malawi                Tourism        -      2.0   2.0    2.0       1.6
Hotels
Limited
542-HAI       1981/    Ethanol Company       Manufactur-
614-HAIL      1982     Limited of            ing Alcohol
Malawi               from
Molasses      0.2    2.2    2.4    2.3        -
TOTALS     0.8  24.9   25.7   19.8        1.6



- 30 -                 ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.        Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:   Twenty months
(b)  Prepared by:   Government with assistance from the
Association/Bank and consultants
(c) Initial discussion with the Association/Bank Group: May 1981
(d) First IDA Mission: September 1982
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: February 1983
(f)  Negotiations:   October 27, 1983
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1983
II.       Special IDA/Bank Implementation Action
None
III.      Special Conditions of the Credit, Special Fund Credit and Loan
(a) The Government would: (i) make available to each District
Council the funds necessary for road maintenance under
DRIMP; (ii) not later than four months before the beginning
of each fiscal year until the completion of the project,
review with the Association/Bank the appropriateness of the
work program and the amounts to be made available to the
District Councils during the fiscal year; (iii) make
available to the MWS the funds necessary to maintain the
main and secondary roads: and (iv) not later than four
months before the beginning of each fiscal year until
completion of the project, review with the Association the
appropriateness of the amounts to be made available during
the next fiscal year (paras. 32 and 33);
(b) The Government would by January 31 review with the
Association the proposed transport investment program for
the following fiscal year (para. 21):



- 31 -                   ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) The Government would employ engineering, management and
financial consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to the
Association (para. 41);
(d) The Government would consult with the Association on the
recommendations of the transport systems feasibility study
before proceeding with the engineering studies (para. 37);
and
(e) Special conditions of effectiveness would be that: (i) all
conditions precedent to signing of the AfDB loan agreement
have been fulfilled (paras. 39 and 49); and (ii) the
selection by Malawi of consultants to provide technical
assistance to MWS for the road maintenance component (para.
37);



32'                N.    tiT u duna34
MALAWI
11vChitia    So                                                        FIFTH  HIGHWAY PROJECT
* !P9w,                       I                            TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
30                                                          - KKri o  Project rooddesign
0o                                                             A    N , A    \  .                                                 Project rood,construction              10
KILOMErERS 0    20   40    60   ao   iqa 0                                                                                      Roads constructed under Credits 102-MAI,
_______________________                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~523-MAI,758-MAI and 1099-MAI
MILES0          20       40        60 i, c                                                                                 Paved roads
/   \   \    (    \,    oChilumba                          -       Principal gravel and earth roads
.......... Roads being studied
-4--~Railways
Livingstoniao                        _                 .  _ -  Railway under construction
PLATEAU                                           ..........Steamner routes
A/OR rH4           It                     *. _. 1 DAirports with scheduled services
RUMP                                                .~Rivers
1                           . **. i.t,.-,,.                           *   6DNational capital
~~~~L  ~~~~~~~~~~                                   6~~~~~   District administrative centers
EG   *uarwp                               -~~~~~~~~~... .  District baundaries
|   p/<    Ci  p/t   C d  t                    \                      -   -   kyo  eoionol boundaries
J       g/fi42/0p9R   k7  d;ni  tX                                             .    .Internatlional boundaries
ho e     $Jkhat oy
ff                %%E IMBINKB&AA    @E}J
Z   A   M   B   I  A                            Mimbam    Chi angawo
12'CIU
-2  IOPMAl    *                       y       F j/                  DISTRICT ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND
IIKOM,,/A!.        <           MAINTENANCE PROGRAM (DRIMP)
0/  W.-   ~       ~         F    ]First phase areas
(CR.523-MAII
Second phase areas (CR.1099-MAI)
CCr> 758 -MAI     Dngwa                                           Third pha-se areas
6                                16        N         tU~                 tIioo     
N A 0 Aosun9u S  r    >t    \               M O Z A M B I Q U E
4,,)    C  E tF   RvA  d            \\              Vila Cabral
/  ~~~~~    > N~tchisiq                  .. ego .;     t                2 
Ch|pata    IMCHINJ I                      (          >                  l           N
-I.'



//   t. .        t      t       J       ,        {t    ~~~~~~~~~~~~Vila Cabral 
Chipa^t/M CHI JI                          D                                         
M C Z A M B I Q U  u                                     /             <              ffi  . ni  key
tot Ihe convenience ot the   \   /                      K                 1         /1   1lq lXpa~~~~~~~~~ot  1ahNomw  a{
reatMets~~~~~~~~~~~~ and                                                                                                         Cls  toluivh tot th                     NO7   _    010- 
hternal~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ZA                   B us ctTe'ittan                                                                                "v         re 
onths m7ap has beno preparonIed by                                                                        CHE   J{         rJ 
pa lThe World t7anks sand Ihaxcusvt                                          *wo  a  
.n h Iternational FinanceCoprto J   > 9AIYE  Coiuu \
*nuchrenl and Me bounarie shou                                                                       fr ,wr.nr s1 F'M WAl N
ot try terrifmor any                           \                                             M     /vE(l   n              I HRADUU  
endorsement r acceptlance of                                                                                                 b      _._7on    lL    
suc  b/ondias     A7    @                                                                                                                   N J |  
ANGOL     ARIA  ,/ '%-0                                                                                                Z 
L~~~~~~1 -                tl                                                  ' a\xj/oiwo31 



